9 SONGS ( Michael Winterbottom , 2004 ) BOM	So the British can make an art-house porn flick just as much as the French , the Scandinavians and the Japanese - big deal ! This film is living proof of the inertia which afflicts today's cinema , when pretentious trash like this draws so much attention to itself - merely for daring to be sexually explicit ! ; besides , being shot on digital , it looks like crap and also features poor sound recording ( which isn't helped by impenetrable British accents ) ! There's no plot to speak of , just the young couple ( the girl is appealing enough , but the boy is a listless bore ) alternating between attending rock concerts ( performed by a plethora of anonymous modern bands ) - hence the title - and engaging in intimate relations bordering on sado-masochism ! Actually , a third thread / setting comes into play on occasion - presumably taking place after their separation - with the boy doing research work in the Antarctic ( with pompous narration to match ) , but the point behind this - or any of it , for that matter - is impossible to fathom . . . Indeed , why anyone should want to see it ( apart for reasons of titillation or merely as a curiosity ) - let alone invest in it - is even more bewildering !
The Fury Of The Wolfman ( 1970 ) BOM	Apparently , this is what happens when a director allows his 14-year old nephew to rewrite the dialogue on the set while he indulges himself alcoholically in the meantime ; as I said earlier , although I've always wanted to catch one of Paul Naschy's werewolf pictures , this atrocity served as my introduction and , as awful as it most certainly is , I still intend to pursue other entries in the series , albeit very gradually . Despite some high profile disappointments like Joe Dante's THE HOWLING ( 1981 ) , I love werewolf pictures in general but , to be honest , I quickly lost interest in this film's " plot " and just stood there gazing at my TV screen counting its absurdities as it were . There were far too many to mention them here but I have to say two which struck me as particularly hilarious were the schizophrenic nature of the Werewolf persona ( i . e . going from a raging beast in one shot to a dazed , zombie-like state in the very next one - as if he's on a casual midnight stroll in the countryside , and sporting an entirely different wardrobe to boot . . . and , yes , I did know the reasons for this beforehand ) , as well as the " Phantom Of The Opera " look of the Wolfstein character ! But what do I know - perhaps the elusive full-length version of this mess could very well have been a bona-fide horror classic !
Friday THE 13TH - THE FINAL CHAPTER ( Joseph Zito , 1984 ) BOM	This one's considered by many fans to be among the best in the " Jason " series ( huh ? ! ) : actually , it's the worst I've watched so far . All I can say is that I wasn't involved for a minute in any of it - my pet cat's antics , which was in the room with me while I was watching this , were far more enthralling . Anyhow , the best part of it was the opening montage of the various death scenes from the earlier instalments and the climactic rampage in which Jason meets his doom . But seriously , how are we supposed to fear for the characters ' lives when they're so dumb ( from the would-be stud morgue attendant at the beginning to the comic relief loser who finds ancient skinflicks a reason for mirth ) ? What's even worse , the teenagers here seem to take much more screen time than ever before , making the film all the more excruciating to watch than it already is ! Conversely , how can we even root for Jason when he's an emotionless killing machine with - when we finally get to see it - a ludicrous train wreck of a face , who's unstoppable merely for the sake of the greedy film-makers not ready to put a ' good ' monster down and part with a ' cash cow ' formula ? The finale , then , with the incredibly resourceful boy ( a young Corey Feldman ) apparently possessed by the spirit of the dead ( ? ) Jason unfortunately put paid to the idea that this could really be the last chapter in the neverending , undistinguished and interchangeable saga ! ! Man , I've still got six more of these turds to go through - I don't know how I'll be able to stand it . . .
TOUCH OF DEATH ( Lucio Fulci , 1988 ) BOM	This latter-day Fulci schlocker is a totally abysmal concoction dealing with an incurable gambler ( Brett Halsey ) who decides Bluebeard-style to pay off his ever-rising debts by seducing some of the ugliest bitches you will ever lay your eyes on and who just happen to be wealthy widows ! The Fulci-penned script also contrives to incorporate a few blackly comedic elements - which only result in some unfunny business involving a corpse which won't stay put , an opera singer victim who won't stop singing , etc . - not to mention a doppelganger theme straight out of THE STUDENT OF PRAGUE - although , in this case , the two personas communicate via pre-recorded radio messages ! ! In the end , I can't say I'm surprised that this film shows no sign of the sophistication of Mario Bava's HATCHET FOR THE HONEYMOON ( 1970 ) which it resembles in several ways and that it is content to merely pile up the disgustingly gory ( but none-too-convincing ) effects of dismembered limbs and squashed or melting faces with which , alas , Fulci had by then become completely associated .
THE BROWN BUNNY : Theatrical Release Version ( Vincent Gallo , 2003 ) BOM	Although I had long suspected that the notorious unsimulated fellatio sequence would be the only reason for me to watch this movie , I had no idea that I would have had to suffer through around 75 minutes of excruciating boredom before it got there ! Having just come from a 3-month film-making program in Hollywood , I can understand a director succumbing to the temptation of pointing his camera at anything hoping that it will eventually make sense in the editing suite ; however , Gallo's film looks and feels like all the available footage has just been pasted together without any editorial intervention ! Scenes just go on and on without any rhyme or reason , characters whisper unintelligibly all through the picture and Gallo's character comes off as a chick magnet with no sex drive , and a cry-baby in the bargain ! ! I can't begin to think how the Cannes Film Festival audience felt when having to sit through an even longer ( by 26 minutes ! ) cut of the film ! As for me , I found myself helplessly bursting into laughter occasionally at the sheer self-indulgence , pretentiousness and absurdity of it all ; even that sequence is not free of chuckles , as Gallo has his character and Chloe Sevigny's carrying on a would-be rhetorical conversation while the latter is giving him ( pun intended ) lip service ! ! I can understand the furore this sequence has caused given that it features a recognizable , Oscar-nominated Hollywood starlet but , again , Gallo is hardly breaking new ground here , as explicit oral sex sequences featuring established actors were also featured in Nagisa Oshima's AI NO CORRIDA ( 1976 ) and Marco Bellocchio's DEVIL IN THE FLESH ( 1986 ; I can't wait to get my hands on the No Shame DVD ) ! Maybe he just decided to insert the scene because someone reminded him that the word " gallo " in Italian means " cock " - as in rooster . The " twist " at the end makes everything , particularly that sequence , all the more stultifyingly inept and redundant . . .
BOLERO ( John Derek , 1984 ) BOM	The Dereks ' nadir is this gloriously misconceived , stultifyingly boring ( and meaninglessly-titled ) erotic adventure ? a multiple Razzie award winner and justly considered one of the worst films of all time ! Bo's naivete in sexual matters at least demonstrates a consistency within her husband's work as a director : in all three films I've watched by him ( and featuring her ) ? the others being FANTASIES ( 1981 ; see above ) and TARZAN , THE APE MAN ( 1981 ) ? she's supposedly a virgin ! Bo's a spoilt rich girl ( her first impulse after graduating is to strip naked on the university campus ! ) who wants to give herself to a man in a big way ? infatuated with Rudolph Valentino , she travels to the desert in search of a sheik ; when this doesn't work ( under the influence of opium , he goes to sleep on her ! ) , she sets her sights on toreador Andrea Occhipinti . Accompanying her in her sexual odyssey is beefy chauffeur George Kennedy ( who looks properly embarrassed throughout ) and her best friend , Ana Obregon ? the latter yearns for a similar whirlwind romance but keeps any serious attachment at bay ? that is , until Derek's kilt-wearing solicitor comes into her life ! Needless to say , Occhipinti is a veritable stud who has a penchant for making lifelong bedfellows of gypsy-girls ; his current lover is , naturally , jealous of Bo but another hopeful ? teenager Olivia d'Abo ? befriends her and establishes herself in Bo's sumptuous hacienda . At one point , the jilted sheik turns up in his aeroplane and kidnaps Bo ? who promptly leaps out in mid-air to rejoin her true love ! Eventually , Occhipinti is gored in the arena ? and Bo determines to render him back his manhood , first by practicing bullfighting herself ( ? ! ) and then through more obvious means ( leading to a stylized finale at the accomplishment of the miracle ) . The sex scenes are fairly explicit ? including one in which the sheik licks a mixture of milk and honey off of Derek's throbbing bare chest ! ; even so , the most unintentionally comical bits involve the characters ' predilection for showing their approval of something by giving it the thumbs up and , especially , Obregon stumbling in one scene ? an accident the director perhaps thought of leaving in for the sake of spontaneity ? which , therefore , likens him not merely to Ed Wood ( see my comments on FANTASIES ) but Jess Franco as well !
GODZILLA'S REVENGE ( Inoshiro Honda , 1969 ) BOM	I decided to follow THE GREEN SLIME with another Japanese creature-feature ; to get an inkling of what this one's like , suffice to say that while the former might well be deemed a camp classic and is not , by any means , unwatchable , the Godzilla title is definitely a waste of 70 minutes of my life and , make no mistake about it , one of the worst films ever ! I just can't believe how " Leonard Maltin's Film Guide " could award it a respectable rating ! ! Jeez , even Ed Wood is infinitely preferable to this retarded piece of junk . . . The plot line would put even an infant to sleep with its jaw-dropping nonsense about a bullied and lonely boy dreaming himself on Monster Island and befriending Godzilla's diminutive , dopey-looking and cowardly son ( but which is somehow capable of speech ) ! ! The numerous monsters one-on-one , with their pathetic rubber costumes and equally wretched effects , are a riot - but these are offset by the utter tedium of the ' real ' narrative ( particularly the subplot involving a couple of inept robbers ) . GODZILLA'S REVENGE is the third film I've watched from the never-ending series - following KING KONG VS . GODZILLA ( 1963 ) and GODZILLA VS . MOTHRA ( 1964 ) - and , though I gave a BOMB rating to all three , this one's really the pits . . .
THE BLACK SIX ( Matt Cimber , 1974 ) BOM	If it's at all possible , this one's even worse than THE BLACK GESTAPO ( 1975 ; see above ) : it concerns the revenge perpetrated by the free-spirited , peace-loving but ultimately tough brother ( and his five equally brawny cronies ) of a black man killed by a group of bikers for daring to go out with a white girl . The title characters are played by a variety of American Football stars but , apart from the novelty factor , this does the film no good as none of them can act - not that the rest of the cast is any better , as witness the old woman for whom they work early on in the film or the hysterical owner of the roadhouse diner they end up trashing after being insulted by their racist clientele ! Even at this juncture , I can hardly remember anything about it - except for the exaggerated Afro hairstyle of the lead character's radical younger sister who rebukes him for going off on their bikes rather than joining the Black Cause - after which one of the guys tells him , " Ma-aaa-n , you have one he-aaaa-vy li'l sistah ! " Also , the print I watched was so muddy and dark that , due to the characters ' skin color , I could hardly distinguished one from the other , especially during the climactic fight ! ! There's also an eccentric white biker named Thor who , appropriately enough , dons a Viking helmet but I have no idea what he really had to do with the main plot at the end of it ! Finally , the end credits show a hilarious title card which warns white " honkies " that if they " hassle a brother " , they'll find the Black Six on their heels . . . or something ! The director later made the intriguing horror film THE WITCH WHO CAME FROM THE SEA ( 1976 ) - whose R1 SE DVD from Subversive Cinema I've been eyeing for purchase for the longest time - but , after watching this piece of trash , I'll think twice before going for it as a blind buy . . .
CANNIBAL FEROX ( Umberto Lenzi , 1981 ) BOM	This film is an imitation of an already poor prototype ? Ruggero Deodato's CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST ( 1979 ) ; ironically , the latter had spoken disparagingly of it at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ( to which Lenzi was himself invited though , of course , he wasn't present at the time ) . The only thing going for it is an appropriately doom-laden score ; otherwise , it emerges to be a barrage of pointlessly exploitative images ? from the totally gratuitous anaconda sequence to the extended and hilariously inventive torture scenes ( my favorite was the brain severing ) . Besides , the subplot involving the NYPD inserted to pad out the running-time feels completely out of place here ! Obnoxious characters , too , prevent any audience sympathy ? which only serves to make the journey even more of an ordeal ! The would-be ironic ending , then , is just stupid : at least CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST had questioned who the real cannibals were but , here , the leading lady ( who was so keen initially to disprove their existence ) has an unconvincing about-face by opting to do the conservative thing and sweep the whole matter under the proverbial rug ! P . S . While my father is usually averse to even the mildest of horror films ( being just not keen on the genre ) , I was surprised to learn that he had watched excerpts from a cannibal-related title some time ago on late-night Italian TV ; he still recalled a couple of the more outrageous moments from it , and it turned out that the film he was referring to was none other than CANNIBAL FEROX ! !
PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE ( Edward D . Wood Jr . , 1959 ) BOM	There's little I could say about this legendary film that hasn't been said before . Still , while it's undeniably a hoot ( particularly the script , composed of equal parts deadpan narration and jaw-dropping non-sequiturs ) , I don't find it all that enjoyable really ; it's simply too bad for its own sake ! Certainly the most regrettable - and saddest - aspect of the film is that it turned out to be Bela Lugosi's swan song ( though his brief scenes , re-used many times throughout , were actually shot for another production and incorporated into the narrative here when that project folded ! ) . Still , the decision to cast Tor Johnson ( whose awkward delivery of Wood's dialogue in itself is good for some chuckles ! ) as a Police Inspector was an inspired one , for all the wrong reasons ! There's also the camp solemnity of Criswell and the ghoulish appearance of Vampira ( more or less as themselves ) . . . and don't get me started on the other members of the cast , the non-existent special effects or the film's use of stock footage for its would-be action sequences ! ! Truth be told , I do want to watch Wood's remaining films - GLEN OR GLENDA ? ( 1953 ) , THE SINISTER URGE ( 1961 ) , NECROMANIA ( 1971 ) and even a few of the ones he wrote - but , like I said , their reputation as bad cinema doesn't readily translate into entertainment . . . and I'm not sure I want to part with my hard-earned cash merely for the pleasure of laughing at Wood's ineptitude ! Maybe , having recently been on a two-month film-making course in Hollywood - where , due to circumstances beyond my control , my personal showreel didn't prove exactly stellar ! - I tend now to find such ' trash ' somewhat uncomfortable to sit through . . .
THE GHOSTS OF SODOM ( Lucio Fulci , 1988 ) BOM	This is another film which stands as the perfect showcase for director Fulci’s sad decline throughout his final years ( actually , this is the third such example I’ve watched ) and , by extension , that of the popular " Euro-Cult " style . It opens in 1943 with a ( hilarious ) orgy at a secluded villa by a group of perverted Nazis , which one of them conveniently films – a sequence which is haphazardly intercut with genuine stock footage of the war . The scene then shifts to the present day with a group of teenagers who happen upon the villa and decide to spend the night there : one of the girls is seduced by the ghost of the amateur film-maker but wakes up to find that , apparently , it was only a dream ! The gang departs in the morning but , mistakenly , take a roundabout route which invariably brings them back to the dilapidated villa ; this time , they discover that they can’t leave the premises – the phone which was previously working is now dead , and the exits have all been mysteriously blocked ! Soon , one of them is engaged in a game of Russian Roulette with the same ghostly Nazi , who even offers him a night with a prostitute if he comes out alive : amazingly , he does but the sexual encounter doesn’t quite go the way he planned ! At this , he goes berserk and attacks one of his friends – but falls down a flight of steps and is killed . Later on , the prostitute herself appears to the most hysterical of the girls ( who harbors a lesbian affection towards one of her companions ) – the older woman shows her her friend making out with the third girl of the group but , when she goes to confront them , finds that it was ‘all in her mind’ ! Then , it’s the turn of the girl who first met the Nazi to become involved with one of the boys ( for whom she had hitherto showed no interest ) – but , as soon as he touches her , the girl’s skin starts to come off ! Eventually , the gang discovers the reel of footage shot by the Nazis intact and they watch it in an attempt to solve the enigma in which they’ve become unwittingly entangled – this is followed by the Nazis suddenly appearing to break down the doors , an explosion . . . and , then , the whole gang wakes up from a deep slumber in front of the ruins of the villa in question ! Doh ! ! The film , then , is a mix of haunted-house horror ( involving the typical obnoxious - vacationing - teenagers - getting - lost angle ) and Nazisploitation ( with the soft-porn elements that this entails ) which can , perhaps , best be described as hypnotically bad . While Fulci might have done something with this plot in his heyday , here he’s defeated by a boring cast ( though the girls , at least , look good in and out of clothes ) and the utterly gratuitous gore mandated by the genre at this juncture ( but which the evidently shoestring budget couldn’t hope to satisfy in a convincing manner ! ) .
Eegah ( 1962 ) BOM	Unlike THE PRINCESS BRIDE ( 1987 ) , this one fully deserves its reputation as one of the worst films ever . I couldn't stop laughing at the amateurishness of it all , from the inane premise to the ghastly acting ( especially Arch Hall Jr . , who even displayed his inexistent talents as a rock'n'roll performer ) to the obviously post-synched soundtrack , where at several instances dialogue ( or grunts in the case of the caveman ) could be heard when it was evident that the characters ' lips weren't even moving ! ! The caveman's would-be rampage at the end is especially pitiful . As much as I ' enjoy ' myself watching bottom-of-the barrel garbage like this , I can't bring myself to give them a higher rating than BOMB - even if I can't say that I was bored with it ( as was the case with , say , THE BROWN BUNNY [ 2003 ] ) . . .
FANTASIES ( John Derek , 1981 ; shot 1973 ) BOM	Bo Derek's debut film remained unseen for eight years ? and that's how it should stayed ! John Derek was a competent actor but , as a director , he's virtually the Ed Wood of erotic cinema ? not that this is especially explicit , considering that Bo ( atypically sporting dark hair ) was only 16 when the film was made ! John also wrote and photographed it ; the latter results in some decent footage of the Greek island setting against which the narrative is set ? but the plotting is puerile and the dialogue atrocious ! The character played by male lead Peter Hooten has been brought up with Bo's family : they grew up as brother and sister but , now in their teens , the couple discover they're attracted to one another ( but , as I said , don't expect any sexual fireworks ! ) . Still , the worst thing about this is the fact that the protagonists each harbor an obsession all through the film which are not only silly in themselves but irritating in their relentlessness ? Hooten wants to turn the remote fishing community into a modernized sea-side resort and keeps expecting a cruise-liner to appear into view ( which , of course , it does at the finale ) ; Derek's is even nuttier ? she craves possession of a large antique bath-tub ! ! For the record , the couple are married by the end of the film . Also involved in the non-events are the female town mayor and a photographer lothario who wants to make a model out of Bo ( and who , naturally , incurs the wrath of the jealous Hooten ) . Occasionally , for no very good reason , we're even treated to snippets from the screening of old Hollywood classics in an open-air movie house to which the whole town assembles ( among the titles shown is THE PUBLIC ENEMY [ 1931 ] ) ! At the end of the day , while Bo's naivete throughout is undeniably charming , it's not enough to offset the film's overwhelming dullness and amateurishness .
Friday THE 13TH PART 2 ( Steve Miner , 1981 ) BOM	I've only ever watched the first and last films in this neverending series of slashers - Friday THE 13TH ( 1980 ) and FREDDY VS . JASON ( 2003 ) ; neither was any good , and this second instalment is , if anything , even worse ! Following the stupid misadventures of a number of fun-loving teens for 90 minutes would test anyone's patience - and , with that in mind , I decided to watch this a day earlier and leave PART III for Friday the 13th itself ( which is actually the only reason I lowered myself to renting such outright trash ! ) . . . While there's plenty of violence ( a couple making out in a bedroom are speared right through - directly ripping off not just Mario Bava's giallo TWITCH OF THE DEATH NERVE [ 1971 ] but the original Friday itself ! ) , this is mostly relegated to the second half : we have to suffer first through a long-winded prologue ( reprising virtually the entire climax of the first film ) and oodles of exposition in order to pigeon-hole each and every one of the teens ( but , then , a few of them get lost in the shuffle - the irritating geek , for instance , never returns from the night on the town ! ) , plus make perfectly clear ( unless it may go above some particularly feeble-minded audience member's head ) the fact that their camp is situated next to the infamous " Camp Blood " ( Brrrr ! ) . Still , the unseen murderer ( outside of the last shot , that is ) device grows tired pretty quickly ( where's the iconic figure of Jason wearing an ice hockey mask , anyway ? ! ) , as does the plot contrivance of isolating individual members of the cast - thus marking them all too obviously as the next victim ( at least , a couple of the girls are attractive and even get to shed their clothes ) ! I guess you can all elicit from this negative review that the slasher subgenre , in my estimation , is about the lowest point in the horror spectrum !
THE THIRSTY DEAD ( Terry Becker , 1974 )	This was included in the " Living Dead " 9-film collection I rented ; however , there are no zombies here ? and the title itself isn't a reference to anything in particular ! The Widescreen print of this one was the best-looking from the four titles I watched ? but the same can't be said of the film , which is perhaps the least of them ( certainly the campiest , particularly where costumes are concerned ) ! Starting off with a White Slavery-type plot , it soon falls into formulaic " She " territory ? involving a lost civilization who has achieved immortality ( presided over by a disembodied living head preserved in a block of ice ! ) . This gives it an old-fashioned air ( the film is remarkably chaste ) and makes the whole incongruous alongside the permissiveness prevalent in exploitation / horror fare of the time ( though , at least , three of its female protagonists look good in skimpy jungle attire ) . One of the women happens to look just like the painting of a blonde who had appeared to these enlightened people in a vision ? so , instead of draining her slowly of blood , they want her to join their fold and be initiated into their lifestyle ( which doesn't sit well with one of the girl's companions , a go-go dancer , who would love to exchange places with her ? especially since the heroine will have no part of this deal ! ) . A high priest falls for her and , eventually , helps the survivors escape ( and liberates the imprisoned old hags , remnants of their ' experiments ' over the centuries ) ? except that , once he gets near to the modern world , starts reverting to his real decrepit age ! The film offers no surprises whatsoever but , what really gets it down , is a serious pacing problem ? being not so much slow-moving as ineptly-handled , the direction showing a distinct lack of judgment with respect to cutting where it could benefit story and suspense the most ! For the record , I followed this with a bunch of trailers included on another disc in the set : I was particularly enticed by the ones for THE ASTRO-ZOMBIES ( 1968 ) ? for how bad it appears to be , not to mention the momentous pairing of John Carradine and Tura Satana ! ? and THE CHILD ( 1977 ) ? yet another EXORCIST clone .
HALF MOON STREET ( Bob Swaim , 1986 )	From the title and what little I knew about its subject-matter , I was expecting a BELLE DE JOUR-meets-JACK THE RIPPER kind of thing but imagine my disappointment when , after an intriguing start , this is forsaken for boring political machinations which ineffectively breach thriller territory towards the end . Actually , it gets sillier by the minute : from having Sigourney Weaver ( playing a researcher in Anglo-Arab relations moonlighting as a high-class escort ) chatting up an Arab playboy's cinematic banter at a society party with " Am I supposed to say ' Your place or mine ? ' " to which he retorts , " No , these days you say " Betamax or VHS ? ' " ; to seeing Michael Caine ( as a celebrity British diplomat ) standing in the rain holding out a bouquet of flowers for Weaver - whom he has fallen for in the course of her extra-curricular activities and with whom he has had a minor falling out ! Still , the often-nude Weaver is nevertheless quite good in her role but the film is certainly no BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) and it is easy to see why Bob Swaim's career went downhill very quickly after having made the excellent French policier LA BALANCE ( 1982 ) .
THE SPIDER WOMAN STRIKES BACK ( Arthur Lubin , 1946 )	Despite the title and the presence of two of Sherlock Holmes ' most formidable nemesis ( Gale Sondergaard and Rondo Hatton - hilariously named Zenobia and Mario respectively ! ) , this is one lame film which has nothing whatsoever to do with one of the better Universal Sherlock Holmes entries . As a matter of fact , the story is weak , the premise far-fetched , the resolution predictable and the treatment uninspired ! Besides , the fiery climax is clumsily executed and Hatton's fidgeting . . . er . . . sign language eventually gets on one's nerves ! It's fair to say , then , that director Lubin fared much better with the other two ' horror ' films he made for the studio - BLACK Friday ( 1940 ) and PHANTOM OF THE OPERA ( 1943 ) , even if these weren't completely satisfying either . . .
She-Wolf Of London ( 1946 )	From what I've seen thus far , the least - and least typical - of the Universal horrors , despite the omnipresent Gothic atmosphere and a capable cast . No werewolf , male or female , ever turns up here and , frankly , the ' wolf ' attacks - which are clearly committed by a human being , but we still get to hear various unconvincing howls and growls - are downright risible ! The plot , actually , borrows heavily from two of the very best Sherlock Holmes adventures - THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES ( 1939 ; the ' curse ' ruse as part of an inheritance scheme ) and THE SCARLET CLAW ( 1944 ; the murder method ) . In the end , the film is not by any means unwatchable - but is , at least , equally missable .
THE REINCARNATION OF ISABEL ( Renato Polselli , 1973 )	What I wrote about this one at the end of my review for the same director's DELIRIUM ( 1972 ) turned out to be the height of understatement : this is one insanely incomprehensible and intensely incompetent film – which I brought myself to award a higher rating than BOMB only because of its undeniable entertainment value ! To begin with , the picture can't seem to make up its mind whether the titular figure is a witch or a vampire ( so that we're treated to various occult rites and would-be feral attacks – if anything , both involve the consumption of fresh blood ) . Isabel's reincarnation seemed possible via the sacrifice of seven virgins ( though when they're finally captured for this purpose , we don't get so many – maybe the production ran out of extras , or else they simply thought the audience wouldn't notice ! ) ; however , given that one of the girls is a dead ringer for the witch herself ( both , in fact , are played by Rita Calderoni ) , why were the others even needed ? ! It goes without saying , then , that the various returning actors from DELIRIUM were far better served by their roles in that earlier outing ( I seriously doubt how much of the script they understood this time around ) . Incidentally , considering that very little characterization is even attempted , I couldn't help whiling away the time in associating a number of the faces with celebrity music figures – so that Mickey Hargitay ( who , unsurprisingly , would retire soon after ! ) resembles Mick Jagger , Raoul ( the inspector from DELIRIUM is here the hostile landlord / head vampire who goes by the name of . . . drum roll , please . . . Dracula ) looks like George Harrison , the hero Richard reminded me of John Entwistle , while the unhinged butler seemed like Mick Fleetwood ( albeit with ' undead ' make-up approximating that of Herk Harvey in CARNIVAL OF SOULS [ 1962 ] ) ! ! Having mentioned this singular musical association , there's a scene in which the hero is shown trying to break the latch of the gateway to the dungeon where Calderoni has been trapped , a scene that is unaccountably introduced by an outburst of rock music ( Giovanni Reverberi's score does manage elsewhere a lovely theme befitting the generally Gothic mood ) – not having had the time to realize just where Richard was and what he was doing , and coupled with the character's visible wincing and the jutting of a piece of metal at the corner of the frame , both my brother and I were deceived into thinking he was strumming on some electric guitar ( by this point , we honestly were ready to expect just about anything from the film ) ! Ironically , Polselli was reported as saying that what he intended all along was to depict the heightened perception of events by people in the throes of hysteria – except that , in our case , this alternative visualization was more the result of sheer bewilderment ! With this in mind , many scenes in the film have two or three different layers of reality to them – giving the whole an appropriately surreal vibe . . . but the treatment is so hopelessly clumsy ( ranging from delirious editing to blatant day-for-night shooting ) that it all goes for naught ! At first , too , it seemed interesting that all the characters ( which Polselli doesn't bother to clearly define ) were ' present ' at the time of the witch-burning but , while it's established that Raoul had himself been re-incarnated , there's no explanation whatsoever about the physical likeness of all the others – again , it must be that extras were hard to come by ! Even more baffling is the emphasis on a ditzy girl ( the actress playing her had been the first victim in DELIRIUM ) – providing deliberately ( ? ) terrible acting , unfunny comedy relief ( denoting her nymphomaniac personality , Polselli even chooses to end the film with a double entendre involving her ! ) and , worst of all , is involved in an extended and wholly gratuitous ménage-a'-trois with another ( good-looking ) girl and a fattish simpleton distinguished only by his facial tick ( a scene that would have been deemed tasteless in even the most vulgar of low-brow Italian comedies then also in vogue ! ) . Yet another head-scratching moment is the fact that , in one scene , the medieval ( ? ) citizens are seen baying for the blood of two ( of the proposed seven ) sacrificial victims in particular – for no discernible reason other than to provide an excuse for a chase in which the girls ( wearing just capes and one of whom is well endowed to boot ) are finally cornered as if they were wild animals ! When all is said and done , I can only suggest the film for the unenviable position of the absolute nadir of the " Euro-Cult " style during its creative heyday – deposing , in fact , previous titleholder TRAGIC CEREMONY ( 1971 ) ! This reminds me that I've got another obscure Gothic outing , Luigi Batzella's THE DEVIL'S WEDDING NIGHT ( 1973 ) , to watch as part of my ongoing marathon ; for the record , the same director would later make NUDE FOR Satan ( 1974 ) – also with Calderoni – and which , coincidentally , is regarded as ideal pairing ( that is to say , is equally loony ) for THE REINCARNATION OF ISABEL itself . . .
Five Savage Men ( Ron Joy , 1970 )	This would-be " with-it " revenge story in Western garb is notable only for having a female protagonist thus anticipating the cult item HANNIE CAULDER ( 1971 ) . Still , Michele Carey's terrible central performance and her squeaky voice basically sink the film entirely as she projects little emotional scars from her ordeal ; in fact , she seems to get back into a happy mood way too soon after her rape ! The sadistic cast of characters are led by notorious bandit Keenan Wynn and Henry Silva is surprisingly cast as the Apache good guy who helps Carey carry out her retribution ( interestingly , he had previously appeared in a similar - and much superior - tale , THE BRAVADOS [ 1958 ] ) . Another nail in the film's coffin is the sheer poverty of the direction which generates no suspense whatsoever as Silva and Carey are merely seen to effortlessly stumble upon each of the rapists ' new hideout , kill them off without much ado and exit the scene ; add to that the puerile fast-cutting technique employed intermittently which grows tiresome before too long . The trebly ironic ending , then , is a valiant attempt at resurrecting the movie but by then it is too late and only a fairly decent score saves the whole thing from a BOMB rating .
THE HORRIBLE SEXY VAMPIRE ( Jose ' Luis Madrid , 1970 )	The original Spanish title for this film was THE VAMPIRE OF THE HIGHWAY but it isn't any more appropriate than the ludicrous one it is saddled with here ; now if it had been called " The Horrible , Stupid Film " . . . Ostensibly a vampire flick , our villain here is also capable of invisibility ( ! ) and only bites his victims after strangling them to death ; besides , he keeps busting his descendant's balls to get him to do the right thing and drive a stake through his heart ! ! Now is that stupid or what ? The latter is an albino-ish , handsome young man who , unfortunately , is prone to drinking himself senseless practically every night . All the girls in the film ( of which there are , for no reason at all , about five or six ) are there literally to undress , take a shower , put on the most inconsequential of nighties , make love with their hunk of a boyfriend and expire at the hands of the marauding Count Winninger ( ! ) who naturally sports a Dracula-like cape and keeps his coffin in the basement of his castle . There is also the usual roster of disbelieving police detectives and officers who only serve as fodder for the blood-thirsty vampire . My unconditional love for Horror movies will get me to watch almost anything in that vein , especially something of this vintage ; it's a pity that this one here proved to be so anemic . . .
HERCULES AGAINST MOLOCH ( Giorgio Ferroni , 1963 )	This peplum has to be one of the low points of the entire genre : not only does it not generate any interest or particular excitement throughout ( most of the time I was merely confused by the plot overcrowded with factions , conspirators and usurpers ) , but the title itself is a cheat : Hercules doesn't really feature in it at all - it's merely the name under which hides muscle-bound hero Gordon Scott , actually the prince to a neighboring empire attempting to free Mycenae from the influence of paganism and the ruling corruption and sadism ; Moloch , then , is nothing like the man-eating God seen in Fritz Lang's METROPOLIS ( 1927 ) but the disfigured heir - with his face hidden behind an iron mask shaped like a wolf's head ! - to the throne who's kept hidden in the dungeons ( with a line-up of drum-beating females as company ! ) and occasionally offered victims he can amuse himself with by shooting at them with arrows . Actually , the latter scenes are nicely atmospheric ( director Ferroni had earlier made the fine Gothic-horror piece MILL OF THE STONE WOMEN [ 1960 ] ) ; by the way , the minor peplum LE BACCANTI ( 1961 ) - also helmed by Ferroni - had featured a similar set of underground females , while some of the exterior scenes appear to have been lifted from the director's own - and vastly superior - THE Trojan WAR ( 1961 ) ! Interestingly , the villainous female lead is played by Rosalba Neri who's undeniably attractive but not yet the favored raunchy starlet of Euro-Cult ; also in the cast are Arturo Dominici ( as a despicable officer in Neri's service ) and Michel Lemoine ( in view of his unusual looks , it's surprising to find him on the side of the righteous and carry the film's secondary love interest to boot ! ) . Note : according to the DVD Drive-In review for Trimark's Box Set " The Adventures Of Hercules " , in which this film is included , it's written that Tim Lucas suspects that Mario Bava may have been involved in its making ; apart from the lighting scheme in the dungeon scenes with Moloch , as already mentioned , it's hard to agree with this - but , then , Bava's own peplums hardly constitute his best work . . .
Emanuelle In Bangkok ( Joe D ' Amato , 1976 )	Notorious film director D ' Amato's first entry in the " Black Emanuelle " series is somewhat better than its predecessor but , the version I watched on Italian TV is so sloppily trimmed that several sexy scenes end abruptly , thus making them quite senseless ! Here Emanuelle attracts the attentions of a Thai Prince ( Ivan Rassimov , of all people ) , her on-off archaeologist boyfriend ( real-life husband Gabriele Tinti ) , a world-renowned historian and a shy Thai bell-boy , as well as 4 ( ! ) females - an Oriental masseuse , a repressed American tourist ( played by the lovely Ely Galleani from A LIZARD IN A WOMAN'S SKIN [ 1971 ] and BABA YAGA [ 1973 ] ) , Tinti's " official " schoolmarmy girlfriend and , most intriguingly , an American Consul's ( possibly manic-depressive ) daughter ! I say intriguingly because Emanuelle is shown really losing her head for the young , inexperienced girl ( almost up to the point that she starts considering forsaking her hedonistic lifestyle ) but , before you can say , " Copout ! " , she gets a call from her newspaper sending her off to Paris for another assignment ! ! By the way , towards the middle of the film , Emanuelle's Bangkok apartment gets broken into and she loses her passport and all her valuable rolls of film ( apparently because she was getting too close to Prince Rassimov who has a coup d'etat on his mind ) and , for good measure , there's some local color ( opium smoking and sensuous dancing ) and even animal cruelty ( in the form of a bloody mongoose vs . cobra duel ) . What the f !
Le Guerriere Dal Seno Nudo ( 1974 )	A sexually-liberated ( if not terribly explicit ) peplum which inconceivably attracted an assortment of talent - director Young , cinematographer Aldo Tonti , production designer Mario Garbuglia , composer Riz Ortolani - but the result is jaw-droppingly awful , so much so that I can't remember the last time I laughed so hard ( for all the wrong reasons ) during a film ! The warriors of the title are man-hating ( i . e . lesbian ) Amazonian women who must go through the ' humiliation ' of mating once a year with strong men ( settling on a garrison of the Greek army , despite their well-known reputation as homosexuals ) in order to bear females to continue their line ! It's well and good that the film doesn't take itself too seriously - as can be witnessed from the self-deprecating text which opens and closes the picture - but that doesn't excuse the sheer insanity of some of its concepts : the Amazonians being able to avoid an ambush or detect an intruder in their camp because one of them is allergic to males and has a sneezing fit whenever she senses their presence ; the mating is preceded by a ritual of anti-male chanting that is supposed to ' insulate ' the women in the call of their duty , thus making submission ( even if temporary ) to the opposite sex tolerable . Also worth mentioning are the Olympian challenges between the two armies ( which the men invariably lose ? ! ) , not one but two all-nude wrestling matches - no doubt inspired by the notorious male equivalent which forms the centerpiece of Ken Russell's WOMEN IN LOVE ( 1969 ) - between the current Amazonian Queen and her jealous and scheming rival ( belatedly revealed as her own sibling , but which doesn't prevent them from subsequently becoming lovers ! ! ) , the stupid mugging of a love-struck servant girl who drinks an aphrodisiac prepared for the Queen by the conspirators . . . not forgetting the ludicrous art direction ( everything in the Amazonian court , including the Queen's throne and scepter , seems to be made in the shape of an axe for no apparent reason ! ) , the incongruous costumes ( from the much later Roman Empire era ) , or the battle scenes in which the fighting Amazonians are barely-concealed stuntmen in drag ! ! Apparently , LE GUERRIERE DAL SENO NUDO ( which literally translates to THE BARE-BREASTED WARRIORS but was known internationally as THE AMAZONS ) was a rival production with the equally irresistible-sounding LE AMAZZONI - DONNE D ' AMORE E DI GUERRA aka BATTLE OF THE AMAZONS ( 1973 ) , directed by Al Bradley . . . er . . . Alfonso Brescia !
THE BERMUDA TRIANGLE ( Rene ' Cardona Jr . , 1978 )	I know I've watched some film about the mysterious and notorious titular area in my childhood but I can't , for the life of me , recall if this was the one - hence my considering it as a first viewing ! The subject matter is handled in the low-brow fashion which prevailed during the last gasp of " Euro-Cult " - even to the point of ludicrously ripping off Mario Bava's KILL , BABY . . . KILL ! ( 1966 ) in the figure of the sinister girl , with a devil-doll in tow , ' causing ' the various deaths ; the silly revelation at the finale , then , takes it into " Outward Bound " territory ! The ' star ' cast looks embarrassed ( an absurdly over-age John Huston , above all , must have been hard-up for cash - though , in all probability , he was financing WISE BLOOD [ 1979 ] , one of his least commercial films , during this time ) tackling their respective stereotyped characters , which include a perennially soused ex-doctor and a scaredy-cat of a black chef ( the kind that was already passé forty years previously ) ! Stelvio Cipriani's efficient score is utterly wasted on this drivel .
DIAL : HELP ( Ruggero Deodato , 1988 )	This is only the fourth effort I’ve watched from this director ( whom I met and found quite genial at the 2004 Venice Film Festival Italian B-movie retrospective ) and also , possibly , the worst . As was the case with THE BRONX EXECUTIONER ( 1989 ) , which preceded it , this is a prime example from the tail end of the Euro-Cult era – prime because it shows the depths to which the previously invigorating style had fallen by this time ! Here , in fact , we get a plot revolving around – I’m not kidding , folks – a killer phone ! Pretty but bland Charlotte Lewis – in her third film after PIRATES ( 1986 ) and THE GOLDEN CHILD ( 1986 ) – is a model who , apparently , has just ended an affair ; she keeps expecting her architect lover to call her back but , every time the phone rings , all she gets is static accompanied by voices from the beyond ( or some such crap ) . She befriends a new tenant at her apartment block who , conveniently , knows of an authority on paranormal activity ( William Berger ) – who , hilariously , explains that the negative energy which is unleashed , say , during family arguments can manifest itself via home appliances into a deadly force ( I swear I ain’t making this up ) ! Among the highlights . . . er . . . lowpoints of the film are : the grumpy bartender from whose dingy place the heroine calls a couple of times ( it seems that the chain-of-events can only be broken by having Lewis go through her paces again , EXTERMINATING ANGEL ( 1962 ) - style ! ) , the sheer variety of preposterous-looking phones on display , the apparatus of the heroine’s photographer friend sneaking up on her before the kill , the sarcastic cop who greets Lewis on reporting the strange occurrences ( " And what’s the toaster up to , I wonder ? " ) , the would-be rapist killed by a barrage of coins shooting out from a telephone booth , and Berger’s own bloody demise ( with the phone affecting the pacemaker he’s fitted with and causing the doctor’s heart to explode ) ! The film’s climax is rather confusing and , apparently , finally sees all the ‘lost souls’ inhabiting a flock of doves and flying out the window of the ‘possessed’ office ( a lonelyhearts service ! ) . For what it’s worth , the score – by ex-Goblin Claudio Simonetti no less – is effective enough , despite the inclusion of dated heavy-metal numbers on the soundtrack .
BAD INCLINATION ( Pierfrancesco Campanella , 2003 )	Lamentable attempt at a giallo revival ? it gets most things wrong ( particularly the atmosphere so essential to this subgenre , completely negated here by flat TV style ) and should , in fact , have been called BAD FILM-MAKING ! For what it's worth , the cast includes three past exponents in the field : noted transsexual Eva Robins ( TENEBRE [ 1982 ] ) as a has-been TV star whose plan for a comeback coincides with a killing spree occurring in her apartment building ; Florinda Bolkan ( A LIZARD IN A WOMAN'S SKIN [ 1971 ] , DON'T TORTURE A DUCKLING [ 1972 ] ) as a crooked art dealer and painter with a fondness for violent themes ; and Franco Nero ( THE FIFTH CORD [ 1971 ] ) who gets an amusing but , at the same time , thankless bit as a disillusioned - magistrate - turned - street - preaching - bum ! Besides featuring one of the silliest murder weapons ever ( an architect's set square ) , dialogue is hilariously overwritten throughout and the young cast emerges to be generally inadequate ( even if virtually all of the performances here are stilted ) ? but , at least , it does manage a bit of the traditional nudity ( courtesy of two entirely gratuitous shower scenes ) and even throws in a few lesbian couplings as a bonus ! Finally , while it's kind of interesting that two of the three murders attributed to the serial killer aren't actually committed by the latter ( and , in fact , is never caught or even identified ) , it's quite stupid of him to add to his list of victims the incompetent magistrate who had hastily condemned an innocent man so as to appease the irate public opinion ! !
ULTRAVIOLET ( Kurt Wimmr , 2006 )	Incredibly , this one proved to be even worse than AEON FLUX ( 2005 ) , which I watched recently ! For starters , it looks - and feels - more like a video game than a movie ; besides , the bland futuristic setting and the trite plot ( concerning humans vs . vampires , again ! ) offer nothing at all new . Despite virtually non-stop action , this is mostly laughable - especially when considering just how many times heroine Milla Jovovich ( a veritable one-woman army ) is surrounded by scores of heavies , only to emerge unscathed from the carnage ; one rooftop scene even has them killing each other as she contrives to avoid all their bullets ! The impossibly slender star ( with her constantly bare midriff almost a character in itself ! ) is sexy but expressionless in her role ; while certainly the only eye-catching element in the film , ultimately , she's just a pale shadow of Uma Thurman in the " Kill Bill " movies ( ) ! A subplot involving child actor Cameron Bright - whose blood , ostensibly , is a weapon for the vampires ' annihilation but could also provide an antidote to their ' disease ' - doesn't help , especially when it descends into sentimentality . The scene when Jovovich opens a case ( shaped like a toilet basin ! ) she's been ordered to retrieve only to find the comatose boy inside is just too surreal for words ! ! At one point , the villain utters the line " What a pathetic picture ! " ; never was an unintended self-reference more truly spoken !
BLOODY PSYCHO - LO SPECCHIO ( Leandro Lucchetti , 1989 )	Reportedly , scenes from this film were incorporated into Lucio Fulci's CAT IN THE BRAIN ( 1990 ) - along with snippets from his own TOUCH OF DEATH ( 1988 ; which I watched only last week ) and GHOSTS OF SODOM ( 1988 ; which I missed out on recently due to a power cut ! ) ; incidentally , Fulci himself was the ' Presenter ' of BLOODY PSYCHO - as well as RED MONKS ( 1988 ) , another title I should get to pretty soon . While certainly better than TOUCH OF DEATH , it's still a film that perfectly evokes the rut into which low-grade European horror had fallen by the late 1980s ( having preceded this by a superior giallo from the " Euro-Cult " heyday - Duccio Tessari's THE BLOODSTAINED BUTTERFLY [ 1971 ] - the gap in quality is all the more evident ! ) . The plot is a mish-mash of tried-and-true elements : there's the doppelganger theme , a remote castle as the setting of an old crime ( with all the mystery and secrecy that it entails ) - and to which an innocent is invited by way of a ruse , but whose presence is necessary so that a prophecy could be fulfilled ( he is himself a spiritualist but doesn't realize that the murderous vision he keeps having is of his own death - shades of both DON'T LOOK NOW [ 1973 ] and Fulci's own THE PSYCHIC [ 1977 ] - until it is too late , that is ! ) , etc . The film's tone is rather campy , what with the presence of the young , long-haired priest ( who eventually emerges to be the leader of a community of diabolists ! ) and especially that of an alcoholic doctor - whose over-the-top performance , resorting to unintelligible raspy-voiced ranting and face-twitching in close-up , has to be seen to be disbelieved ! Still , the hero is a blank-faced youth and the major female characters all look alarmingly alike ( but only one of them actually doubles as the ancient murderess - now reduced to a pile of goo and bones riding a wheelchair ! ) ; from the latter , I'm sure one can deduce that the film is basically just an excuse for a parade of slimy ( yet risible ) effects . Apart from featuring Jess Franco favorite Paul Muller in a small but pivotal role , the film benefits - if so it can be said - from a tolerable electronic score ( though its sudden shift to a honky-tonk sound during a stint in the country provokes unintentional hilarity ) . . . and there's even an unusual element of sexual tension present : a lesbian relationship between the ' paralyzed ' mistress of the castle and her sluttish maid ( which , alas , is barely touched upon ) and also some highly unlikely sexcapades ( one of them being an unorthodox milk-drinking session ) between the hero and the murderess ' grand-daughter that would be more appropriate in something like 9 ½ WEEKS ( 1986 ) - and which are even more incongruous when pitted against the wave of violent deaths surrounding them ! ! The rushed attempt at a multiple-twist ending , then , is utter nonsense - effectively delivering the well-deserved death knell to an already tired genre outing .
IMPULSE ( William Grefe ' , 1974 )	If there can be such a thing as overhyping the badness ( read unintentional hilarity ) quotient of a film , then the reviews I've come across of this one on the Internet are guilty of doing just that ; it's not that I didn't find William Shatner's inflating hairline , outrageous clothes sense and , especially , his uncontrolled facial expressions comical ? but I wasn't exactly laughing out loud either ? let alone rolling about on the floor stamping my fist in hysterics ! I'm not saying I was really expecting that kind of a response but , at any rate , I was let down by the film even in this department so that little remains for me but to bemoan the loss of 90 minutes from my life and try to forget this viewing ever happened ! Sure , Shatner is hardly the ne plus ultra in psychopathically menacing and irresistibly handsome characters : seeing him threaten an obese woman for no reason at a park ( while dressed in an unflatteringly sleeveless shirt ) , break out in tears after committing his first murder ( as an adult ) , decked out in a completely white get-up with an over-sized fedora hat to match , slip his little finger into his mouth every time he recalls his childhood trauma ( shown in black-and-white during the prologue ) and boyishly jump up and down ( as if his bladder's about to burst ) in anticipation of being shown the safe is , admittedly , a source of amusement ? but that hardly excuses the dullness of the rest of the picture . The chase in a car wash between Shatner and ex-partner Harold " Oddjob " Sakata ( here playing Karate Pete ! ) was a nice try but even that sequence is clumsily executed and needlessly protracted . The worst part of it is that the three female leads ? Ruth Roman , Jennifer Bishop and Kim Nicholas ? claim a good share of the film's running time when they are merely boring caricatures ; unfortunately , the director even contrives to waste the opportunity of the only two promising female encounters Shatner has in the movie ? the sultry belly-dancer at the start and the flirtatious hotel receptionist !
I DRINK YOUR BLOOD { Director's Cut } ( David E . Durston , 1970 )	This is considered a " Grindhouse Classic " ? the former it may well be , but the latter it definitely ain't ! The film was released as a double-feature with the re-issue of ZOMBIES ( 1964 ) , now renamed I EAT YOUR SKIN : both of these titles actually end up being misnomers , chosen strictly for their exploitation value . Again , this starts off with a rite ( Satanic rather than voodoo ) ? which here , too , has nothing to do with the rest of it ! The gang of youths concerned attack an uninvited girl and then take it up on her relatives when they confront them . Eventually , a young boy decides to avenge himself upon the group in a rather vicious manner ( feeding them meat pies from his family's bakery infected with the blood of a rabid dog ! ) ? and , unwittingly , unleashes an epidemic of madness and murder . The violence ( coupled with the foaming-at-the-mouth make-up ) is so unconvincing as to be laughable ? and , for added queasiness , there's a completely gratuitous scene involving a boa ! A measure of the film's contrived nature is the fact that the group takes quite some time to show the effect of the disease ( one of them is a nymphomaniac who ravishes a bunch of construction workers ? conveniently spreading the virus ? before expiring ) , but their victims all turn rabid at the bat of an eyelid ! One more unexplained factor is that each member of the Satanic cult develops a particular abhorrence of one another ? with their Indian leader dispatched by his former black pal in memorably grisly fashion .
TARGET ( Guido Zurli , 1979 )	This is surely one of the lamest poliziotteschi I've ever come across , with just about the only thing going for it being the unusual and exotic Istanbul locations . Even nominal star Luc Merenda is underused ; in fact , a lot of the running time is devoted to a Turkish family man who happens to be an infallible sharpshooter , and is unwillingly recruited by the mob in order to eliminate narc cop Merenda ( whom he has actually just befriended ! ) . One of the funniest things in the film is the fact that every male in Turkey is seen to be sporting a moustache ! Otherwise , the concoction is the same as before : tough hero ( heroes in this case ) , above-the-law financiers discussing their criminal business around a dinner table , their vicious thugs and abused molls , kidnappings , fisticuffs , shoot-outs , a bit of gratuitous nudity , bad disco soundtrack , etc .
The Black Godfather ( 1974 )	Despite my skepticism about the whole " cash-in " business , I can't deny that the Blaxploitation genre has yielded some remarkable achievements , most notably Larry Cohen's BONE ( 1972 ) and Bill Gunn's GANJA AND HESS ( 1973 ) ; unfortunately , THE BLACK GODFATHER would definitely come somewhere near the bottom if such a list was compiled ? ! Having already updated private detectives , vampires , monsters and what have you to the funkier generation , it was only a matter of time before we also had a colored Don to lord it over the underworld ; it's a pity , though , that the mobster here is nothing like his Italian namesake ( unless having his bodyguard named Sonny is enough to earn him the title of " Godfather " ! ) . Anyway , I've already spent far more time writing about this film than it deserves ; suffice it to say that the hip dialogue ( brimful of catchphrases like " dig " , " nigger " , " brother " , " right on " , " the man " , " that where it's at " , etc . ) is risible , the hairstyles outrageously dated , the action sequences amateurish , the compulsory song score mediocre and the acting woeful . Despite all this , I guess I was in a " bad movie watching " mode tonight because I was reasonably entertained by this junk and I can't wait to get my hands on that other Blaxploitation double-feature disc ? THE BLACK SIX ( 1974 ) / THE BLACK GESTAPO ( 1975 ) ? which is available for rent from the local DVD store ? !
SAW IV { Unrated Version } ( Darren Lynn Bousman , 2007 )	Director Darren Lynn Bousman must be doing something right to be handed the reins of three successive entries in the SAW franchise ; for the life of me , however , I can’t figure out what the damn thing is because it seems to me that the series is getting progressively worse with each new sequel . The fourth film , therefore , is the worst of the lot – not because it is the goriest ( which I don’t think it is , curiously enough ) but because it doesn’t make a lick of sense – at all ! The film-makes clearly assume that whoever ventures into this one is already familiar with the earlier movies but , frankly , I lost the plot completely a couple of times while trying to remember who every newly-introduced character is ( or was supposed to be in the prequels ) . As far as I know , the character of Jigsaw ( finally ) expired in SAW III ( 2006 ) but he is all over the place in this one , too ! – both under his real , normal identity ( in a series of flashbacks depicting the miscarriage of his child , etc . ) and in any number of his silly costumed video messages from beyond the grave ( or whatever ) . I don’t really need to go into all the gory details of the various torture sequences seen throughout but the dismemberment of the sadistic fat slob is perhaps the ( comic ) highlight ; still , Jigsaw’s schemes are always so incredibly tortuous that , more than anything else , they make him seem like an elderly , human and more successful version of Wile E . Coyote ! ! Angel of vengeance-cum-serial killer , my eye . . .
THE SHARK HUNTER ( Enzo G . Castellari , 1979 )	In his review of this film in " Stracult " , Italian film critic Marco Giusti claimed that Franco Nero's performance was undoubtedly the worst he ever gave . Ridiculously decked out as he is in a long blonde mane and hippy garb , he can't be too far wrong I guess . . . Anyway , Nero plays a bitter loner who , having lost his wife and kid in a traffic accident , voluntarily enlists for dangerous missions for an unspecified organization but then , unceremoniously , quits his job and relocates to a Carribbean island whose seas harbor the carcass of a sunken plane with a fortune locked away in its safe . The problem is that the site is infested with sharks but , of course , Nero has a penchant for killing sharks with his bare hands a ' la Johnny Weissmuller . Those sequences depicting Nero's particular skills reach an unheralded level of silliness when he sky dives into the water onto a moving shark and slits its torso open without batting an eyelid ! And what about his dragging a shark onto his motor boat after having previously pursued it on foot ? ! I don't really know why I should go on writing in detail about such trash ( especially since most of you probably won't ever have the chance to see this for yourselves ) but , then again , why not ? Anyway , there's a love scene early on between our Franco and a native girl , a couple of fistfights with the local bully ( featuring a running gag of Nero sticking a piece of chewing gum onto his opponent's forehead ) , an alliance with a buffoonish salvage expert , a member of the organization is hot on his heels , as is the ubiquitous Edoardo Fajardo who is obviously interested in claiming the fortune for himself and , in the climax , an all-out shark attack replete with fake floating limbs . Director Casterallari ( who frequently appears in his own films a ' la Hitchcock . . . yeah , right ! ) has a fairly large part here as a killer pursuing the man from the Organization ! He was still fixated on sharks a couple of years later when he made THE LAST SHARK ( 1981 ) , a film which was partly shot in Malta and featured such second-tier American actors as James Franciscus and Vic Morrow . For his pains , Castellari was even taken to court by Steven Spielberg and Universal Studios for plagiarising JAWS ( 1975 ) . . . although , if one is to believe Castellari's own statements at the 61st Venice Film Festival , Spielberg and Co . were merely envious that THE LAST SHARK had been more profitable ( in the expenditure / profit ratio ) than JAWS itself . . . ! !
QUEEN OF OUTER SPACE ( Edward Bernds , 1958 )	This trashy but Technicolor-shot sci-fi piece from Allied Artists was surprisingly given a Special Edition DVD release by Warners under their " Cult Classics " banner along with the even more notorious ATTACK OF THE 50 FOOT WOMAN ( 1958 ) and the still elusive THE GIANT BEHEMOTH ( 1959 ) . Despite having ( as the theatrical trailer would have it ) " the most talked about woman " of the time , Zsa Zsa Gabor in the lead , she plays a Venusian lady scientist ( ! ) who ( predictably ) falls for strapping American astronaut Eric Fleming . The actual title role , then , is played by Laurie Mitchell as a facially-scarred ( purportedly by atomic radiation ) and highly-embittered woman who hides behind a featureless but campily-designed mask ( a year before Georges Franju's EYES WITHOUT A FACE ! ) . Curiously , the film has a 15-minute pre-credits sequence showing the four goofy astronauts ' ( including a disappointingly wooden turn from NOT OF THIS EARTH's Paul Birch ) ascent into space and turbulent journey through the stars as their hokey spacecraft ( whose sheer wobbliness hardly disguises its model origins ) is detoured towards the man-less planet Venus . Needless to say , the Venusians are split over the arrival of the men : there are those who adhere to Mitchell's ultra-feminist credo while others follow Gabor's example and are all over the three young astronauts ; by the end of it , when they are ordered by their superior officer on Earth to remain on Venus for a year , even the previously discarded Birch is surrounded by a bevy of smooching ladies ! ! Interestingly enough , the costumes used here were borrowed from FORBIDDEN PLANET ( 1956 ) and the models , sets and special effects were taken from director Bernds ' own previous sci-fi effort , WORLD WITHOUT END ( 1956 ) , which I haven't watched . Bernds would later also work on RETURN OF THE FLY ( 1959 ) and eventually ended his career in TV and helming Three Stooges feature films ! Incredibly enough , the film under review was based on an original story idea by the celebrated Ben Hecht and the screenplay was written by distinguished genre exponent Charles Beaumont ( whose work includes the superlative NIGHT OF THE EAGLE aka BURN , WITCH , BURN [ 1962 ] and THE MASQUE OF THE RED DEATH [ 1964 ] ) ! !
ENTER THE NINJA ( Menahem Golan , 1981 )	Terrible action movie in which lead Franco Nero exchanges his cowboy hat , gun belt and the coffin he dragged around in DJANGO ( 1966 ) for an all-white Ninja outfit with all the snazzy paraphernalia that goes with it ! Despite virtually non-stop action , the film is utterly clichéd and unintentionally funny - with a campy villain , to boot , in Christopher George . Susan George ( no relation ) is the attractive woman with a washed-up husband , Nero's wartime companion , whom the villains are trying to push off her oil-rich land - but the latter haven't counted upon Nero's martial-arts ( and stunt-heavy ) gymnastics . The solution to their problems is to hire a similarly-skilled Ninja for themselves who , as it happens , turns out to be Nero's deadly enemy ( played by Sho Kosugi , who appeared in two more sequels and is currently engaged in another ! ) . The climax takes place inside an arena where one-man army Nero ' eliminates ' George and what has remained of his gang from previous confrontations ; the subtle way in which he despatches his nemesis , however , is effectively done .
THE COMMANDER ( Antonio Margheriti , 1988 )	Around Christmas I had watched COMMANDO LEOPARD ( 1985 ) , a passable low-brow German-Italian war flick ; that film was the middle part of a trilogy and , back then , I had expressed a wish to check out the remaining two entries – CODENAME : WILDGEESE ( 1984 ) and THE COMMANDER ( 1988 ) . I now happened upon the latter , but the result was even less rewarding ! Lewis Collins is once again the hero and , as ever , producer Erwin C . Dietrich manages to assemble a fair line-up of actors in support : Lee Van Cleef , Donald Pleasence , Manfred Lehmann and John Steiner ( both from COMMANDO LEOPARD ) , Paul Muller ( as Van Cleef’s smart butler ! ) and Brett Halsey . The convoluted plot involves an Asian dictator , a consignment of drugs and an all-important incriminating " floppy disk " ( but which looks more like a CD ! ) . The band of gung-ho mercenaries this time around also includes a native girl but , with much of the action being relegated to the second half , it’s mostly by-the-numbers stuff – until the explosive climax ( which only Collins and Lehmann survive . . . though one member had expired early on from the bite of a cobra ! ) . However , there’s a nice twist at the end regarding the characters of Van Cleef ( fitted with a silly pirate-like earring throughout ! ) and Pleasence ( alternating between hysteria and sarcasm and , finally , campily turning up as a tourist-photographer ) – as they prove exact opposites to what they’d been played up to be !
SAVAGE GUNS ( Demofilo Fidani , 1971 )	This is the first film I've watched from the Italian Ed Wood , Demofilo Fidani aka Miles Deem . The above title was superfluously added later on since there exists another similarly titled 1961 movie starring Richard Basehart which was Hammer Films ' Michael Carreras ' one and only stab at the Western ; the genuine Italian title was originally translated as HIS NAME WAS SAM WALBASH , BUT THEY CALLED HIM AMEN ? although it was actually WALLACH in the Italian variant which , of course , implies a tribute of sorts to Hollywood actor Eli ! While certainly not unwatchably bad , instances of clumsiness and ineptitude abound so that I was often cracking up into howls of laughter : a horrid number by a would-be irresistible French chanteuse ; a totally irrelevant bar-room brawl ; actors doing somersaults when being shot ; an aged villager doing an impromptu dance routine ; ineffective use ( indeed abuse ) of slow-motion ; and , easily the most preposterous , seeing Gordon Mitchell and Lincoln Tate play two gunfighters ( sporting the actors ' own names ! ) hired by the villain to kill off the title character and then never having them appear in the rest of the film at all ! ! Lead actor Robert Woods is just that even down to ineffectively whispering the Amens over the bodies of his victims . Supporting actress Simonella Vitelli ( actually , the director's own daughter ! ) as the villain's broad is quite a looker but , unfortunately , she doesn't get to do much in the film ? despite having a change of heart towards the end . The main musical theme is actually pretty good but , again , the title song is , in itself , quite lousy .
Emanuelle And The Last Cannibals ( Joe D ' Amato , 1977 )	A disparate mix of explicit sex and stomach-churning gore , the film can't really decide what it wants to be ( and , in fact , the titular character is too often left by the wayside ) : in the version I saw , the former seemed to be intact - but the latter was evidently trimmed as , mostly relegated to the second half , this section of the film was particularly choppy ! I've only watched one of the Italian-made " Black Emanuelle " titles featuring Laura Gemser and two Cannibal films by Ruggero Deodato ; I'm not a fan of either subgenre , and this one certainly made no convert out of me ! Going back to the element of sexuality in the film , much of it is gratuitous ( showing , for instance , an impotent man spying on a couple of girls - one of whom is a nun ! - conveniently sleeping in the nude ) : though pushing forty Susan Scott - star of numerous Spaghetti Westerns and gialli - is featured in a number of uninhibited sex scenes ( alone and with a black stud ! ) . . . which is basically the sole reason this one doesn't rate a BOMB ! Gemser and real-life husband Gabriele Tinti also share a few - including one which is edited in the fragmentary style of Nicolas Roeg's DON'T LOOK NOW ( 1973 ) ! ; speaking of movie references , the opening sequence shamelessly rips off Samuel Fuller's SHOCK CORRIDOR ( 1963 ) - with Gemser as the reporter carrying out an undercover expose ' of mental institutions ! !
THE STUD ( Quentin Masters , 1978 )	The R2 double-feature DVD of this film , along with its sequel THE BITCH ( 1979 ; see below ) , had been available for rental through my local DVD outlet for quite some time - and , though I had been tempted to check it out time and again , I finally took the plunge after having watched star Joan Collins in another sexy role in . . . CAN HEIRONYMUS MERKIN EVER FORGET MERCY HUMPPE AND FIND TRUE HAPPINESS ? ( 1969 ) . Based on the lurid novel by Joan's own sister , Jackie Collins , the film isn't for anyone looking for quality cinema ; cheesy , sleazy trash - set in London and accompanied by a dated disco soundtrack - that's filled with copious but unerotic nudity . Collins , at least , is clearly having fun with her bitchy role ; Oliver Tobias is the would-be stud who finds himself to be merely a pawn in her game ( and who , predictably , finds real love in the arms of Collins ' teenage step-daughter ) ; while Walter Gotell ( a regular in the James Bond extravaganzas ) is her betrayed but vengeful diplomat husband .
CURSE OF THE DEVIL ( Carlos Aured , 1973 )	This was my fifth entry from Paul Naschy's signature series of Waldemar Daninsky werewolf films ? the others , with their respective ratings , were FRANKENSTEIN'S BLOODY TERROR ( 1968 ; ) , THE FURY OF THE WOLFMAN ( 1970 ; BOMB ) , WEREWOLF SHADOW ( 1970 ; ) , NIGHT OF THE HOWLING BEAST ( 1975 ; ) and THE CRAVING ( 1980 ; ) . As can be seen , they're a pretty mixed bag considering their reputation among horror-film fans ; what's interesting in them is that , as opposed to Lon Chaney's Lawrence Talbot series for Universal ( which were clearly the template for the later Spanish variant ) , Naschy / Daninsky gets cursed with lycanthropy all over again with each new entry ? and the werewolf make-up is also different from one film to the other ! While I watched all the other films via ragged Public Domain ? and , as far as I can recall , pan & scan ? prints , CURSE OF THE DEVIL was culled from Anchor Bay's R1 DVD : however , this meant that the extra clarity and tidiness of the transfer also served to expose the film's budgetary limitations ( particularly the fake gore ) and slipshod technique all the more ; the nail in the coffin , then , is supplied by listless dubbing and the ludicrous English dialogue ( with a couple of sure-fire howlers ? when the police report with news of an escaped lunatic to landowner Daninsky , he can only offer the deadpan remark " Sounds bad " and , later , during a village meeting concerning the brutal killings by the werewolf , the locals lash out at the police's inadequacy ? causing the sole representative of the law , ridiculously outnumbered , to rebut this onslaught with the limp protestation " Look , man , I'm all alone here ! " ) . One of the more risible moments occurs towards the end during the showdown between the werewolf and the Chief of Police : since the latter starts throwing stones at the former , rather than physically attack him as is his fashion , Daninsky chooses to lift a huge rock and smash his face in with it ! Anyway , the plot starts off with Naschy as a zealous medieval knight who despatches a Satanic cult : a witch subsequently curses him as she's being burned at the stake ; the scene then relocates to a few centuries later , where the latest Daninsky lord shoots a gypsy werewolf while hunting : the latter turns out to have been a descendant of his ancestor's enemies and a young woman is thereby commissioned , after having cavorted with the devil during an invocation , to give Naschy the mark of the wolfman . The second half of the narrative sees our hero befriend a couple of young sisters ? one loves him ( and is finally instructed on how to kill a werewolf by Naschy's long-suffering old servant-woman ) , while the other is a nymphomaniac ( whom he kills when transformed , as he also does the girls ' parents ! ) . There's little more to say except that the film is eminently watchable in a naïve sort of way ? but it's certainly not of the quality that the " Euro-Cult " stable could deliver at its best ?
SEXTETTE ( Ken Hughes , 1978 )	I didn't even know that this one was readily available to watch but I immediately snapped it up when I saw it was available for rental from the local DVD store . Actually , I had watched the godawful MYRA BRECKENRIDGE ( 1970 ) on TV while I was in Hollywood a few months ago so I was really expecting the worst here . Surprisingly , it turned out to be a fitfully amusing affair ? if a completely embarrassing one . Previously , I had only watched Mae West ( with whom , I just found out , I happen to share my birthday ) in her prime ? SHE DONE HIM WRONG ( 1933 ) , I'M NO ANGEL ( 1933 ) and MY LITTLE CHICKADEE ( 1940 ) ? and I love all three of them . Despite her writing talents , West's main assets were always her figure and appearance so it's no surprise that she bowed out when she did ? which , of course , makes her eventual re-emergence as a heavily cosmeticized octogenarian all the more outrageous and baffling ! Over the years there have been numerous surprising comebacks in Hollywood ? not to mention lavishly produced ego-trips ? but I'd bet few reach the level of preposterousness attained by SEXTETTE ! Hollywood in the Seventies , among other things , was an era of catastrophic , all-star attempts to recapture past glories particularly its musical heritage and therefore it's small wonder that SEXTETTE ropes in some uncharacteristic cameo appearances by contemporary music stars like Ringo Starr ( as an Erich von Stroheim-like director ) , Keith Moon ( as a flamboyant fashion designer ) and , weirdest of all , Alice Cooper ( as a piano-playing , bellboy crooner sporting a curly-haired wig ) ! The Beatles also make another appearance of sorts when Mae's agent , Dom DeLuise bursts into an exuberant rendition of Lennon / McCarney's " Honey Pie " ? and guess who he was thinking of when he was singing it ? Apparently , Miss West wasn't too keen on having these four stealing her limelight ? However , she did approve of her leading men who , of course , are requested to still be lusting helplessly after Mae ? an aristocratic Timothy Dalton ( who gets to sing a duet with Mae and whose remarks are frequently misinterpreted in the press ! ) and mobster George Hamilton ( who is also seen pleading in broken Italian to his " Godfather " - cue the Nino Rota score from that film ! ! - for the sakes of " Mario ? Irving ? Mozzarella ? Marinara ! " ) ; other guest stars who make an appearance are Tony Curtis as a Russian powermonger ( ! ) , Walter Pigeon as a bewildered Chairman of the Board and a split-second cameo from George Raft - who co-starred with Mae in her very first film , NIGHT AFTER NIGHT ( 1932 ) - as himself . Ken Hughes helmed some good films in his day ? THE TRIALS OF Oscar WILDE ( 1960 ) and CROMWELL ( 1970 ) ? but , I guess , the producers of SEXTETTE only knew him from his comedic , big-budget extravaganzas like CASINO ROYALE ( 1967 ) and CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG ( 1968 ) when they engaged his services for this misbegotten enterprise ?
I KNOW WHO KILLED ME ( Chris Sivertson , 2007 )	To be honest , I wanted to watch this mainly because of its dominance of this year’s Razzie awards – though learning it was a horror film , I guess , increased my interest slightly . All things considered , while it’s certainly pretty bad , I’d say that any of the crass teen comedies which turn up every year would be even more deserving of such dubious ‘accolades’ ! One other thing which caught my fancy was the fact that the narrative involved twins – since , as some of you might know , I am one myself ; several movies have been made over the years on the subject , usually psychological thrillers – this follows in that trend but , at least , provides a new angle with its Stigmata association ( though I didn’t buy it myself ) . I’d only ever seen teen idol Lindsay Lohan in Robert Altman’s melancholy and elegiac swan-song A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION ( 2006 ) where , surprisingly , she managed to hold her own in some mighty fine company . On the other hand , Lohan doesn’t quite cut it here as a dramatic actress – but , if anything , provides reasonable titillation with her steamy stripper act and one sex scene ! The film tries to be hip by playing on the unsavory element which , lamentably , seems to have overtaken the horror genre of late and which has been tastlessly dubbed as " torture porn " . Thus , it presents several totally pointless but unflinching instances of violence – morbidly lingering on the gory details in what can only be described as a perversion of what constitutes mass entertainment ! As I said , it never convinces for a second – with the revelation as to the villain’s identity being particularly blah ; nor does it arouse much sympathy for her heroine ( s ) , or anyone else involved : the police are typically annoying , while Julia Ormand’s role as the mother of the two Lohans is rather superficial . In the end , the overall consensus about the film seems to be that of being a misguided attempt at a mature breakthrough for its talented but troubled star .
Dracula , PRISONER OF FRANKENSTEIN ( Jesus Franco , 1971 )	This would-be homage to the classic Universal cycle of horror films from the 1940s could have been interesting , but it's defeated by listless presentation ( marked by Franco's trademark zoom-happy technique ) and inadequate plotting ( what there is is extremely lazy and contrived ? such as Frankenstein's idiotic manifesto for world domination and his baffling about-face towards self-destruction at the end ) . It was a good idea to present the latter ( played by Dennis Price ) as a deluded megalomaniac , but the dire physical condition of the actor makes this something of a lost cause . Howard Vernon's Dracula , then , is underused and saddled throughout with a silly fixed expression ! Alberto Dalbes plays Dr . Seward ? Vampire Hunter ( ! ) , Luis Barboo gives a hammy performance as Frankenstein's mute hunchback assistant , while Fernando Bilbao gets as little screen-time playing the Frankenstein Monster as his counterpart in the latterday Universal monster flicks themselves ! ! With respect to the female members of the cast , at least , we get two lovely presences in Josiane Gibert ( as a tawdry chanteuse turned into unwitting sacrifice in the re-animation of Dracula ? the scene where the bat is bathed in blood is actually nice and grisly ) and Britt Nichols ( a vampire lady with her own agenda and whose coffin is stupidly never noticed by either Frankenstein or his assistant ! ) . Also on hand are Anne Libert ( who's killed off immediately ) , Genevieve Deloir ( as Vernon's new bride ) and Mary Francis ( as a gypsy girl ) . The film is capped by what is the most hilarious monster mash I've ever seen ? with a werewolf who comes out of nowhere , only to get beaten to a pulp by the Frankenstein monster ! Just as amusing , though , is the fact that Frankenstein ( and his prisoner Dracula ) use a hearse as their method of transportation ! Incidentally , the way such great locations as Franco had at his disposal are squandered makes this that much more of a missed opportunity ? not that the visuals are helped by the dismal print utilized for this transfer ( featuring washed-out colors and the wrong aspect ratio to boot ) ! By the way , a sure sign of the film's rushed production is its recycled score ? comprising the instantly recognizable main theme from MARQUIS DE SADE'S JUSTINE ( 1968 ) and , possibly , even cues from COUNT Dracula ( 1969 ) ! In conclusion , this one emerges as easily the least of Franco's ' classic monster ' films . For the record , its viewing was promptly followed by THE EROTIC RITES OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1972 ) ? by way of the version the director himself preferred . His most respectable efforts in the genre remain COUNT Dracula ( not really connected to the others , as it was a Harry Alan Towers rather than Robert De Nesle production ) and DRACULA'S DAUGHTER ( 1972 ; a contemporaneous release with , again , much the same cast and crew but which is altogether more satisfying ? mainly in view of its novel giallo elements ) .
TETSUO ( Shinya Tsukamoto , 1988 )	I had already watched this film's sequel ? TETSUO II : BODYHAMMER ( 1991 ) ? before I got to it and , while I recall not being all that impressed , I still wasn't prepared for the pretentiousness of its unbearable predecessor ( and the only reason this didn't get a BOMB rating from me is because of its admittedly audacious concept per se ) ! Filmed in stark black-and-white , this is one intense and visceral ride ( or should I say train-wreck ) of a film : when I recently watched the films of Koji Watanabe , the presenter of that " After Hours " programme in a brief introduction had described his work as being " Samuel Fuller multiplied by 10 " ; well , to get an inkling of what this one's like , think Cronenberg's ' body horror ' multiplied by a 100 ! I can't begin to describe what the film is about except to say that , for some reason , the three main characters slowly turn into piles of metal junk ? an excruciatingly painful process , I might add ! ? and at the very end merge into one eye-sore gob of steel intent on world domination . Or some such rubbish . The latter stages of the film , which seem to have been edited by a speed-freak , make no sense whatsoever and , frankly , even if the film is barely over an hour in length , I gave up on it fairly early ?
HERCULES IN NEW YORK ( Arthur Allan Seidelman , 1970 )	Being on an epic movie kick lately , I decided to check out again this " lost " debut of Arnold Schwarzenegger's where not only is his then unpronounceable surname changed to the unimaginative Strong ( in the manner of the stars of Italian peplums ) but his voice was also dubbed by an American actor for U . S . theatrical release ( which is unsurprising as his original vocal track - which is how I watched the movie myself - is virtually unintelligible at times ) ! Anyway , the " Greek god in modern NYC " plot had comic potential to be sure but , despite the scarce felicities ( Hercules is insulted on seeing an impostor posing as himself in a fictional sword-and-sandal flick playing in a movie theater ) , it is generally hopelessly squandered by the sheer amateurishness of it all . At least , despite its blandness and derivativeness , the Greek-style musical score alleviates one's pain from time to time . . .
SCARED TO DEATH ( Christy Cabanne , 1947 )	Mainly notable as Bela Lugosi's only film in color ( he's actually quite good as a magician ) , it's narrated by a corpse ( could it have influenced SUNSET BOULEVARD [ 1950 ] ? ) - however , judging by the absurd split-second flashes to the body on the morgue slab every once in a while , the film-makers apparently thought the audiences constantly needed to be reminded of this novelty ! I really wanted to like this film because the central idea ( a woman with a guilty past fears for her life in an institution ) and some of the imagery ( especially the green mask motif ) were intriguing enough . Unfortunately , the plot development was extremely muddled - with new characters introduced from time to time but subsequently given little to do ( chief among them Angelo Rossitto as Lugosi's deaf-and-dumb but , by the latter's own admission , bad-tempered dwarfish sidekick ) . Besides , it establishes situations - for instance , Lugosi's long-time grudge with George Zucco - that are ultimately left hanging in the air and which it never bothers to resolve or adequately explain , that one's attention is bound to wander throughout . Add to this the inane comic relief provided by Nat Pendelton as a dumb cop ( who is even less appetizingly involved in a romance with the household's ordinary and inevitably frightened maid ) and Douglas Fowley as a flustered reporter ( who has no purpose in being there at all but has a ditzy blonde in tow for good measure ) and it comes as no surprise that the end result is so flat and poorly done in all departments ! ! P . S . Here's an interesting ( and hilarious ) review about the film which perfectly encapsulates its various shortcomings - the author seems to bear a particular grudge against the title : http www scifilm org musings musing125 html
HEROD THE GREAT ( Viktor Tourjansky and Arnaldo Genoino , 1959 )	No sooner did I state in my review of THE PRODIGAL ( 1955 ) above that it was going to be my only tribute to the late Edmund Purdom , that a visit to the local DVD rental shop also provided me with the opportunity to watch this Italian biblical flick . Unfortunately , the end results were even less satisfactory than that earlier Hollywood epic ! For one thing , Purdom makes for a decidedly wooden ruler of Judea who , at the film's start , is seen returning from a lost battle against Octavius Caesar ( ! ) to find all of his elderly subjects ( who , naturally , had stayed home ) seemingly out for his blood ! Even his son and mother-in-law openly hate and scorn him ! Eventually , Herod regains his composure with the appearance of his wife ? and how could it have been otherwise when she is portrayed by the red-headed , curvaceous beauty Sylvia Lopez ? Tragically , in real life she would be dead of leukemia before the year was out but not before making Steve Reeves ' head spin in her most significant role in HERCULES UNCHAINED ( 1959 ) ! Out of the blue , then , the film's second half takes the form of a retread of Shakespeare's " Othello " with Purdom the jilted monarch , Lopez the compromised queen , Alberto Lupo as Herod's innocent right-hand man and Corrado Pani ( as young Herod Antipas ) as his Iago-ish brand new confidant ! The strain is too much for Herod-Purdom to bear and , a little while after ordering the proverbial slaughtering of Judea's first born , he just keels over and dies at the foot of his throne ! Ugh ? which is a pity since a few months ago I had rather enjoyed Purdom's next collaboration with director Tourjansky , THE COSSACKS ( 1960 ) ? which also shares at least three other distinguished participants ( actor Massimo Girotti , screenwriter Damiano Damiani and cinematographer Massimo Dallamano ) with this one .
THE LOVER OF THE MONSTER ( Sergio Garrone , 1974 )	In hindsight , this obscure , meaninglessly-titled Italian horror movie is to " Dr . Jekyll And Mr . Hyde " what LADY FRANKENSTEIN ( 1971 ) was to " Frankenstein " but , as an erotic version of the classic tale , it is a long way behind Walerian Borowczyk's brilliantly delirious DOCTEUR JEKYLL ET LES FEMMES ( 1981 ) . The atrocious print displayed on this bootleg DVD ? replete with fuzzy video and annoyingly processed audio as if it had been recorded under water ! ? destroys any attempt at the Gothic feel the film strives for but , in truth , the whole production is a mind-boggling hodgepodge of every horror cliché in the book with elements of Frankenstein , Jekyll and Hyde and Jack The Ripper ( whom star Klaus Kinski would play , far more successfully , for Jess Franco a couple of years later ) thrown into the mix ? not to mention an impotent villain given to raging fits of jealousy , indigestible dollops of Freudian self-analysis ( usually uttered by a wimpish Kinski while lounging from one sofa to another ) , a rival doctor vieing for the attentions of the mad scientist's neglected wife , gore ( the gratuitous vivisection of a dog ) , not one but two distinct tramps convicted of the murder spree ( lazy writing , if you ask me ! ) , hilarious character names ( Nijinsky , Polanski , Boris , Ygor , Ivan Rassimov ) , etc . ! Having said that , Kinski ? who is unusually subdued here - is always worth watching but , while the movie is mostly dull , it is occasionally alleviated by the vivid colors and two effective sequences : Kinski's savage attack on his wife while transformed and the conscience-stricken flashback to his past murders . The film's final image is arresting as well , the music score is rather nice and Katia Christine makes for a lovely leading lady ( almost like an older Scarlet Johansson ) and the intermittent bits of nudity certainly don't hurt any . Still , all the frenzied cutting and odd camera angles prove laughable rather than laudable ; Kinski's make-up only extends to close-ups of his bulging eyes and , what's worse , although a serum is concocted , his transformation seemingly occurs when he comes in contact with a certain laboratory lever ( what the f ? ) ? but what about the other times ( unless his jealousy attacks bring on the mutation ) ? For the record , writer-director Sergio Garrone is brother to actor Riccardo ( best-known nowadays for portraying God on a slew of coffee commercials on Italian TV ! ) and THE LOVER OF THE MONSTER itself was simultaneously filmed with another obscure international potboiler , THE HAND THAT FEEDS THE DEAD ( 1974 ) , with most of the same cast and crew participating in both productions .
DESERT RAIDERS ( Tanio Boccia , 1964 )	I’d never heard of this peplum prior to its recent screening on late-night Italian TV . As the title suggests , it’s an Arabian Nights-type adventure but without any element of fantasy ; consequently , it emerges as a totally undistinguished affair that’s barely watchable for the contribution of two " Euro-Cult " stalwarts : Rosalba Neri as the rather bland heroine ( she was far more interesting when playing a bad girl ) and Paul Muller as the constantly scowling villain ( despite having a harem of beautiful girls at his disposal ! ) . The hero , then , is ( unconvincingly ) played by muscle-man Kirk Morris who was more at home in mythological roles . Also worth mentioning is pretty Helene Chanel as Muller’s favorite harem girl who develops a conscience out of the blue towards the end and aids Neri in fleeing ! ; incidentally , she had already appeared alongside Morris in Riccardo Freda’s popular but unintentionally hilarious THE WITCH’S CURSE ( 1962 ) . The hackneyed plot isn’t worth recounting in detail here – except to say that , at one point , the hero and his sidekick try to pass themselves off as jugglers during Neri and Muller’s engagement feast ( a ruse which would also see service that same year in SWORD OF DAMASCUS , a film I rewatched recently ! ) . Neither do the action sequences generate much involvement from the viewer – especially given the sluggish pacing and the sheer contrived nature of events ( Morris acquires legendary status as a freedom fighter merely by having made it out of Muller’s palace alive , garnering an impressive army of followers into the bargain apparently at the bat of an eyelid ! ! ) .
FRANKENSTEIN 1970 ( Howard W . Koch , 1958 )	This film has only ever been shown once in my neck of the woods and on a minor Sicilian TV channel at that so , despite its negative reputation , I've always wanted to see it . After all , it does have Boris Karloff playing the Baron for once ? even if , for some strange reason , he is named Victor here while his notorious ancestor is called Richard ! ! The film's pre-credit sequence , in which a German fraulein is being pursued through the forest by a barely-glimpsed fiend is promising enough but , as it turns out , it's also the best sequence in the whole film ? which ought to give you an idea about the worthiness of the whole enterprise . However , even from this first sequence , one is made aware of the sheer ineptness of the direction : it not only cuts away from one character to another with a boring regularity but the sequence is framed in such a way as to cut the creature's head off ! This factor cannot be attributed to watching a pan-and-scan version because , surprisingly enough , the film was being shown in the correct widescreen ratio . This is exacerbated as the film goes along by the director's apparent refusal ( in some sequences , at least ) to move the camera in any way ; I don't know if this was an attempt on his part to satirize the TV medium ( given that it is , after all , a TV crew which impounds on the Baron's home ground ) but I'd be surprised if the thought had occurred to the director in the first place . Coming hot on the heels of Hammer's full-blooded color version , it would have been a daunting task for anyone I presume ? Of course , it goes without saying that Karloff gives it his all ( particularly during a rehearsal for the upcoming TV show in which he narrates straight to the camera his ancestor's diabolical deeds ) and sometimes it's hard to watch him simply walking around the castle as the evident strain this is having on his legs is palpable and there were a couple of times where I could have sworn he lost his footing ! Even so , apparently this does not detain him from creating the monster and installing the all-important atomic reactor ( which is barely glimpsed in the film anyhow ) single-handedly . It's incredible to note that , despite his failing health , some of Karloff's best work - Roger Corman's THE RAVEN ( 1963 ) , Mario Bava's BLACK SABBATH ( 1963 ) and Peter Bogdanovich's TARGETS ( 1968 ) - was yet ahead of him ! Still , even here - with the haphazard appearance of the Baron , whose misshapen face apparently gets " lifted " every once in a while ! ? the film's limitations make themselves felt . And why is it that every mad scientist out there has to be an accomplished pianist as well ? Why not try your hand at an electric guitar , Herr Baron ? after all , we're in the age of Chuck Berry here , aren't we ? Er ? no - make that 1970 : " Monster making is for me , like ? you know ? outta sight , man " ! ! And how about that deadening monotone music during the laboratory sequences ? Also , the less said about the goofy mummy ? er ? monster , the better ! To top it all , there's an execrable attempt at an echo but the dialogue spoken in the cavern ( the site of the Doc's lab ) is totally all over the place and overlaps ad infinitum ! I know Joe Karlosi ( if he's still around , that is ) won't be too pleased with my review of this one as I know this is one of his guilty pleasures ? but I have to say that my negative impressions were certainly amplified by the abysmal state ( correct aspect ratio notwithstanding ) of the print I watched which was replete with print damage and missing frames which not only managed to shorten the film to around 70 minutes ( against the official 83 ! ! ) but also made the parts of the narrative and the revelatory climax particularly incoherent ! Recently , there's been some talk of an upcoming Warners DVD of this one and , strange as it may sound , I hope it does materialize as I wouldn't put it past me to give this clunker another chance under more ideal circumstances . For the moment , however , I suppose even LADY FRANKENSTEIN ( 1971 ) is preferable ? !
JACK THE RIPPER OF London ( Jose ' Luis Madrid , 1971 )	This had been shown on late-night Italian TV some years back and , later , I recall it being mentioned favorably online ; hence , given its theme of an updated version of Jack The Ripper and the fact that it starred Euro-Cult icon Paul Naschy , I decided to check it out this time around . However , it turned out to be quite a mess : not so surprising when considering that the only other J . L . Madrid film I've watched was the similarly dispiriting THE HORRIBLE SEXY VAMPIRE ( 1970 ) ! ; as in that film , the women here are mainly on screen in order to disrobe and get butchered . The plot provides three possible suspects of the serial killings : a crippled and bitter ex-trapeze artist ( Naschy ) whose wife is among the victims , a handsome schoolteacher of noble birth but who's actually impotent and , surprisingly , a police commissioner who just happens to be the latter's boyhood chum and is also secretly in love with his wife ( Orchidea De Santis , whom I saw in the flesh and on screen ? in Luciano Salce's equally obscure but infinitely superior political satire , COUP D'ETAT [ 1969 ] ? at the 61st Venice Film Festival ) ! The Swinging London locations are just about the only authentic element here : both the gore and the occasional action scene look extremely phony ; another clear measure of the film's lack of budget is that Naschy's accident ( which continues to haunt him ) is hilariously depicted simply by having the actor throw himself in front of the camera and utter a couple of none-too-convincing groans !
BOOT HILL ( Giuseppe Colizzi , 1969 )	This Spaghetti Western was the third teaming of popular duo Terence Hill and Bud Spencer ; the previous two were also in the same genre and directed by Colizzi . Unfortunately , its muddled plot line of gold-prospecting and claim-jumping ( shades of the Rex Beach venerable " The Spoilers " ) is rendered even less intelligible in the budget DVD edition I watched by the rampant panning-and-scanning throughout ? which cramps the on screen action so much that what remains is virtually a succession of disconnected close-ups ! The only original touch here is the fact that the heroes are aided in their struggle against the villainous exploiters by a troupe of traveling circus performers ; one other point in its favor is a solid supporting cast , which includes not only familiar genre presences such as George Eastman but a clutch of Hollywood veterans ? namely Lionel Stander , Woody Strode , Eduardo Ciannelli and Victor Buono ( as the outwardly respectable chief baddie ) .
THE BITCH ( Gerry O'Hara , 1979 )	The sequel to THE STUD ( 1978 ) , also based on a Jackie Collins novel , is more of the same - if more elaborately plotted , taking in a diamond heist , fixed horse-races and the mob ! The stud this time around is the Italianite but ultra-resistible Micheal Coby and the girl with whom he shares a brief moment of bedroom bliss turns out to be working for the mob - headed by a campy turn from Ian Hendry ( who seems to have just strayed in from GET CARTER [ 1971 ] ) . The mix is as before : tawdry shenanigans in lush settings to ( a literally dying ) disco-beat . Collins again does a dry-run for what eventually became her signature role , that of Alexis Colby in the long-running TV soap opera " Dynasty " . As I said , these films are bad but a fun one-time viewing nonetheless .
ICHI THE KILLER ( Takashi Miike , 2001 )	The first film of Miike's that I watched had been the disquieting AUDITION ( 2000 ) ; then , during the 2004 Venice Film Festival , I attended a screening of his incomprehensible IZO ( at which the director himself was present ) . The third effort from this new Asian infant terrible , then , is closer in tone and effect to the second : a gore-drenched gangland drama which one is supposed to find shocking ( and many actually seem to think of as a black comedy ! ) ? but , to me , it felt merely gratuitously repulsive . Besides , the narrative is inordinately confusing : given all the obnoxious characters on display , I eventually gave up trying to make head or tail of it ( the ending is particularly head-scratching ) . Miike so clearly intended this film to be the sickest yet made ( thankfully , the version I caught was snipped by a little over 3 minutes ) that he also inadvertently made it one of the all-time silliest ! Incidentally , I had mistaken the masochistic villainous gang leader for Ichi since it's he who appears on the poster and in all the stills I've seen from the film ; actually , the titular character is a neurotic wimp who turns messily murderous when crossed ! In the end , while I adore the classic Japanese cinema ? the more stylized the better ( I'm lukewarm on Ozu and similar family-oriented contemporary dramas ) ? I have to say that the extremist approach of today's exponents leaves me cold for the most part . . . P . S . Film-maker Shinya Tsukamoto appears in the film as Ichi's ' master ' ; I had intended to follow ICHI THE KILLER with a viewing of that director's BULLET BALLET ( 1998 ) ? but my negative reaction to the former , not to mention Tsukamoto's own TETSUO films ( 1988 and 1991 ; the only ones I've watched so far ) , quickly changed my mind ! !
THE HAUNTED HOUSE OF HORROR ( Michael Armstrong and , uncredited , Gerry Levy , 1969 )	I wasn't expecting much from this one , given that I had been let down by the director's subsequent - and signature - film , the notorious MARK OF THE DEVIL ( 1970 ) ; I would still like to watch HOUSE OF THE LONG SHADOWS ( 1983 ) , however , which Armstrong only scripted ( it was directed by Pete Walker and featured genre stalwarts Vincent Price , Christopher Lee , Peter Cushing , John Carradine and Sheila Keith ) . Similarly , the fact that the majority of the cast was made up of juveniles ( with Frankie Avalon - referred to in the film as " the epitome of Swinging London " ! - the most experienced among them ! ) wasn't exactly enticing ; however , at least a couple of the girls - Jill Haworth and Gina Warwick - don't register too badly under the circumstances and , interestingly enough , a pre-stardom David Bowie had originally been slated for the role of the killer ! As for Dennis Price , he's wasted as the investigating officer ; the role , insignificant as it was , had been intended for Boris Karloff - but he was too ill to appear , and died not long afterwards . Anyway , the end result is a truly lame film full of obnoxious characters ( particularly the couple that's supposed to provide comic relief ) , wooden acting . . . and pointless zooms onto the Gothic architecture of the titular house ! Surely the best thing about it is the rapid editing of certain sequences ( a couple of brutal murders , a suspenseful scene at a gallery ) , in which the director admits - during the Audio Commentary - to being influenced by the work of Sergei Eisenstein ! Reg Tilsley's score - except for a terrible song near the beginning composed by Gerry Levy ( more on him later ) - is quite good . . . and the ending offers a couple of surprises as well , but all this isn't enough to salvage the film ! It was released in the U . S . as a double-bill with CURSE OF THE CRIMSON ALTAR ( 1968 ) , which I watched for the very first time only a couple of days prior to this one . Writer-director Armstrong's Audio Commentary was very interesting , however , because he went into great detail about how the film was taken out of his hands by AIP ( it was made in conjunction with Tigon ) and changed considerably : a new director - Gerry Levy - stepped in , generally softening the characters and toning down the sex ( which became practically non-existent ) and violence ( one bloodless killing was clearly his work ) , but also adding a new subplot involving an extra-marital affair between Warwick and George Sewell ! It's very probable that the original version made a better film altogether , but there's little to suggest that it would have been anything special - despite Armstrong's vehement , denigrating comments throughout about Levy and AIP's Louis M . ' Deke ' Hayward ! Ironically , the exact same thing happened to Armstrong on his second film ( the intrusion this time around came from producer Adrian Hoven ) , which basically put him off directing for good - though his bad experience during the making of THE HAUNTED HOUSE OF HORROR did translate into a feature-film script , ESKIMO NELL ( 1975 ) ! Interestingly , I followed this with the only film Gerry Levy directed by himself - THE BODY STEALERS ( 1969 ) - which , being a Tigon release as well , it ended up as part of the same Box Set with THE HAUNTED HOUSE OF HORROR ! Needless to say , Armstrong had no kind remarks about Levy's film ( despite the presence in it of one of my favorites , George Sanders ) - but I'll comment on that film in its own brief space . . .
DANGEROUS PASSAGE ( William A . Berke , 1944 )	Set largely aboard a ship , this noir-ish programmer could be seen as the poor man’s JOURNEY INTO FEAR ( 1942 ) – the splendid ( if relatively neglected ) Orson Welles thriller ; on the other hand , the villain of the piece was all-too-obviously modeled on Sidney Greenstreet’s character from THE MALTESE FALCON ( 1941 ) ! The object of contention , this time around , is nothing more remarkable than an inheritance – which the hero ( Robert Lowery ) catches a run-down steamer in order to acquire ; however , he stumbles on an insurance-fraud scheme involving the skipper and mate of the vessel ( which the steward and a former chanteuse – pretty Phyllis Brooks – are actually investigating incognito in their own right ) . Typically , hero and heroine begin on the wrong foot but soon discover they’re made for each other ( despite her being coveted by one other shady passenger on board ) . Eventually , a couple of attempts are made on Lowery’s life and Brooks is kidnapped by the villain and his accomplice ( who join the party en route ) in order to hand over the letter that would lay claim to the money awaiting the hero – he’s not personally known to the notary , so anyone could pass for him ! Despite a trim length of just 61 minutes , the film is slow-going and , frankly , too dull to be engaging – nor is it helped , for that matter , by the wholly artificial fog-bound atmosphere . . .
SEASON OF THE SENSES ( Massimo Franciosa , 1969 )	Despite the promise gleaned from the plot line of sex and death in a remote island setting and the contributions behind the camera of co-screenwriter Dario Argento and composer Ennio Morricone ( soon to re-unite on the former's directorial debut - THE BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE [ 1970 ] ) , this boring would-be psychodrama is sunk by incompetent handling and its own naïve pretensions . Udo Kier is the wealthy but decadent recluse ( who has just murdered his domineering and ageing mistress and whose relationship is shown in intermittent and rather pointless flashbacks ) presiding over the island but who's also something of a sportsman . When he brandishes a machine gun and lets his German sheperd loose after the four girls who turn up unannounced at his abode , one would think we'd be in for a psychedelic variant on that old warhorse - THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME ( 1932 ) - but , alas , this angle was stymied before it had even begun ! Instead , we're dealt vapid dinner-table conversations , lectures on sexuality ( ! ) , stupid parlor games ( balls are dunked in paint and thrown at Kier who has to ditch them , before turning into a free-for-all ) , even sillier fashion shows ( with the girls prancing about in front of the camera , which follows them voyeuristically ) and , of course , constant squabbling among the amorous but clueless girls over who gets to sleep with the young master of the house ! The soft , colorful look of the film is typical of its era but Morricone's score seems uninspired by the material . The most alluring of the girls is played by Ewa Thulin , whom I had only seen in the interesting sexploitationer THE SEDUCERS ( 1969 ) early this year while in Hollywood , and in which she had held her own against favorite " Euro-Cult " starlets Rosalba Neri and Edwige Fenech ! As for the downbeat twist at the end , it would have been a good deal more effective had any actual sympathy been mined for any of the characters during the course of the film . . . All in all , a dated time-capsule which , considering some of the talent involved could have been more intriguingly developed .
SLAUGHTER HOTEL ( Fernando Di Leo , 1971 )	I knew beforehand that Di Leo's sole foray into the giallo subgenre didn't have a good reputation , but I couldn't have anticipated that it would be so lame ! As a matter of fact , it almost challenges Riccardo Freda's TRAGIC CEREMONY ( 1972 ) for the title of the poorest and most bewildering vintage film by a renowned Euro-Cult director I've ever watched ! Despite its violent outbursts - mostly confined to the second half - typical of Di Leo ( one particularly vicious episode at the very end , which leaves numerous victims , has to be seen to be believed ) , he shows no real feeling for - or even much interest in - this type of film ! In fact , a good deal of the running time is devoted to exploitative erotic content featuring nymphomaniac Rosalba Neri and a lesbian relationship between a nurse and a black patient ! With respect to technique , the editing is particularly sloppy : sometimes it seems like the editor has fallen asleep on the job , with several scenes going on for much longer than is required ( beginning with the very first scene of the killer prowling the asylum grounds - though before the credits had even rolled , more than just my brain cells had suddenly snapped to attention with the appearance of a fully naked Margaret Lee { one of my favorite Euro-Cult starlets } tossing and turning in bed ; regrettably , this is her only nude scene in the entire film ! ) ; occasionally , however , there are disorientating tilted shots and a series of pointless - and irritating - rapid cuts of two converging locations ( for instance , the killer approaching a victim's room ) ; besides , we get all kinds of people having flashes to earlier scenes , but the shots are so randomly chosen as to make no sense whatsoever ! The score , usually a prominent feature in a giallo , occasionally delivers but it's too uneven ( the killer's theme is dreadful , for instance ) to really count as a success ; indeed , the only worthwhile element to the whole film is the casting of three Jess Franco alumni in the lead roles : the aforementioned Lee ( despite the fact that her role doesn't give her much scope ) and Neri ( who , at least , gets to shed her clothes quite often and takes a shower memorably ) , and Klaus Kinski as an enigmatic and wild-looking doctor who becomes romantically involved with Lee - even if his contribution is a listless take-the-money-and-run turn , seemingly there only to serve as a red herring ! By the way , the notorious and mystifying audio glitch found on the version ( horrendously dubbed in English and actually bearing the on-screen title of COLD-BLOODED BEAST ) released by Media Blasters - which also plagued the copy I watched - is a real pain in the neck . . .
CHALLENGE OF THE GLADIATOR ( Domenico Paolella , 1965 )	The peplum genre has always been one of the most erratic branches of the " Euro-Cult " style ; for every gem , there's a score of average efforts and even a handful of turkeys ? and this is clearly one of the latter species ! The narrative throws in historical figures ? the hero is called Spartacus and the villain Nero ( albeit an imposter who makes the Emperor seem mentally-challenged as opposed to mad ! ) ? who , historically , never actually ' got together ' , so to speak ; they just make easy identification points for the audience , I guess ! The muscular lead is one Rock Stevens ( ! ) ? whom I'd recently watched in MUSCLE BEACH PARTY ( 1964 ) : the stage name itself suits that empty-headed ambiance somewhat better but his performance comes across as wooden under any circumstances ; for what it's worth , this was Stevens ' fourth and final outing of the sword-and-sandal variety . The heroine is as bland as her male counterpart ? irritatingly , she has a tendency to shriek when wishing to attract Spartacus ' attention ( incidentally , she's made up to be a femme fatale for much of the duration but , characteristically , it's such a clumsily-handled twist as to utterly lack conviction and , ultimately , merely serves to notch another fiasco in the film ) . The villain , then , is played by a regular in this type of low-brow fare ? Massimo Serato ? who's visibly bored throughout ; as for Livio Lorenzon , his imposing bald-headed acolyte , he was much more in his element in the Spaghetti Western Texas , ADIOS ( 1966 ) which , coincidentally , followed this viewing . What's worse , for being Roman nobility , both Serato and the ' Nero ' impersonator are bafflingly made to lust all through the film for some hidden treasure belonging to Spartacus ' people ! ! Amusingly , the film unwittingly makes a perceptive statement about the whole ' muscle-man epic ' fad in which the heroes more readily display brawn than brain throughout ? because , at one point here , after explaining the situation to Spartacus , the heroine instinctively asks him " Are you sure you understood ? " ; similarly , as if the audience were expected to be asking itself just what form of challenge did the gladiator hero put forth to the Empire , the elders of his community are made to blatantly state the fact when Spartacus accepts to face Nero in a duel inside the proverbial arena !
VIRGIN OF THE JUNGLE ( Romano Ferrara , 1967 )	Having watched so much Euro-Cult dross this year , I only decided to check this out against my better judgement at the last minute . . . but how could I resist after reading its review on " Stracult " , which described the film as " a great and immortal piece of ultra-cult " ! ! Anyway , what promised to be the exploits of an eroticized female Tarzan , alas , turned out to be a rather dismal jungle adventure with the scantily-clad title character actually not appearing all that much ( and , given the time of release , the nudity is still very much downplayed ) ! The plot deals with the usual themes of such films : a jungle expedition in which one of the members has ulterior motives for joining it ; at one point , the party is captured by a native tribe ; when they come upon the " Panther Woman " , some of them want to communicate with her while others just want to shoot her , etc . Kitty Swan looks good in the title role but doesn't otherwise create much of an impression - but , then , she is saddled with a one-dimensional character only able to growl like a jungle beast ( which she reprised the following year in GUNGALA , THE NAKED PANTHER [ 1968 ] , directed by Ruggero Deodato ! ) ; even so , I was more interested in statuesque blonde Linda Veras ( who would soon appear in two excellent Spaghetti Westens by Sergio Sollima - FACE TO FACE [ 1967 ] and RUN , MAN , RUN [ 1968 ] ) . Surely one of the most irritating aspects about the film is that , for long stretches , the characters speak only in the natives ' tongue , with little understanding allowed to the audience as to what's being discussed ( which certainly didn't help my involvement any ) !
CASABLANCA EXPRESS ( Sergio Martino , 1989 )	This could have been a fairly engaging WWII adventure - it deals with a Nazi attempt to kidnap / eliminate Winston Churchill aboard the titular train - but , being a product from the tail-end of the Euro-Cult style , it's a tired ride ( excuse the pun ! ) with little panache and a cast made up of equally worn veterans ( Glenn Ford , Donald Pleasence and Jean Sorel ) and totally uncharismatic newcomers - both of whom happen to be the offspring of a famous international star - in the form of Jason Connery and Francisco Quinn ! Apart from the venerable " danger-on-a-train " theme , the ingredients are there for 90 solid minutes of entertainment - exotic locations , action , romance , treason , a decoy flight , an impossible one-man mission , a violent corpse-strewn climax , and even a clever ( if predictable ) twist ending - but , as I said , the film never really takes off and Martino handles the proceedings in lackluster fashion , with none of his trademark stylistics . Besides , the relentless and highly irritating synthesizer score is wholly inappropriate and seems to have been discarded from badly accompanying a Silent film . . .
One Man Against The Organization ( Sergio Grieco , 1975 )	Yet another lackluster poliziottesco featuring a fading Hollywood star ( in this case , Stephen Boyd ) : actually , he supports nominal lead Howard Ross as a drug courier who decides to make a run with the money . Jess Franco regular Albert Dalbes is one of Ross’ associates / opponents , while the drugs were destined to an excitable Russian ( who supplies some initial comic relief and then disappears altogether ) . Among the ruses the hero adopts to make his passage safer is that of impersonating Special Agent Boyd – who has had his papers stolen by Ross’ girlfriend ( Karin Schubert ) while traveling on the same plane which was carrying the drug stash . As he happens to be after the organization himself , Boyd – rather than be cross with Ross { sic } – allows the latter to do most of the dirty work for him ! At one point , however , Schubert is abducted , beaten and gang-raped by the vicious members the drug ring – with the latter scene filmed and fixed so that Ross can see it ! ! The one novelty in the film is that the gang leader is , ostensibly , a rich lady with an attractive ‘lesbian’ secretary in tow ; eventually , the former turns out to be a man in drag ( though I must say that the make-up was pretty obvious ) – an identity to which he reverts for the final getaway , with his accomplice hiding behind the vests of a nun ! The film includes plenty of action – with an extended helicopter chase for the climax – but , all in all , Remy Julienne’s stunt-work here isn’t among the best on his track record ; nevertheless , the pounding score by Luis Bacalov emerges as a definite asset .
Dagli Archivi Della Polizia Criminale ( Paolo Lombardo , 1973 )	Mediocre poliziottesco , with an equally lackluster score , about the attempt to smash a drug ring in Tunisia ( admittedly , an atypical setting for the genre ) . Amusingly , one of the two criminal factions involved is led by a cigar-chomping heavy-set man called Maltese Joe ( even if he speaks with a heavy Sicilian accent ! ) ? the other by a paraplegic sporting slick attire , shades and the coolest of demeanors ( hilariously instructing his underlings at one point to elevate him off his wheelchair ) . The hero , then , is an Edmund Purdom past his prime ? his womanizing antics ( in a feeble attempt to link the film with the concurrent James Bond spy sagas ) often getting in the way of his job . In fact , most of the action is entrusted to a couple of relics from the peplum era ? namely Alan Steel ( who has a fixed expression throughout , and the sight of him behind a desk with coat and tie was also quite funny ! ) and Gordon Mitchell ( who actually turns up in only one scene before being killed , for no specific reason ) . As expected , there are plenty of women on hand ( including a black girl called Zula who , out of the blue , performs a dance completely nude ! ) : most look quite nice , but are given little of substance to do . One is Purdom's reporter girlfriend ? unaware of his specialized police work and suspecting a fling , she follows him from London to Tunisia . Another is Maltese Joe's blonde moll , a woman who's past it but who makes herself useful by procuring her boss with information on his opponents / rivals . One more is a local girl ( an Italian actress made to look like an Arab ? it's safe to assume that the company never left the country ! ) who helps a young police aide , who sells information to the highest bidder , by having him dress up as a Casbah girl ; the latter is played by Andre ' Montchal : I was vaguely aware of his face as I watched the film , but couldn't quite place him ? until I realized he had been the hero of one of Jess Franco's best efforts , EUGENIE DE SADE ( 1970 ) . And then there's the ultra-efficient Secretary of Purdom's boss : her presence in Tunis isn't properly explained ? but she's able to bug any discussion held between the various parties and , at the end , leaves with Purdom and his girl ( much to the latter's chagrin ) ! The film has a slapdash overall look ( I , for one , had never heard of writer / director Lombardo ) ? most evident in the adoption of odd angles without any rhyme or reason , not to mention some of the clumsiest stunt-work on record ! Even so , it was an agreeable time waster which is why my rating was not as low as it could have been under the circumstances .
THE ATOMIC SUBMARINE ( Spencer Gordon Bennet , 1959 )	All the shortcomings one would normally associate with low-budget sci-fi are evident in this film : a talky script ( whose solemnity , typical of this era , gives rise to unintentional hilarity ) which provides little opportunity for action ( and this is mostly stock footage and obvious models ) and delivers a ridiculous-looking monster ( a sort of octopus / cyclops hybrid ) . THE ATOMIC SUBMARINE does , however , feature an eclectic cast - comprised of veterans ( Dick Foran , Tom Conway and Bob Steele ) , genre regulars ( Arthur Franz ) and newcomers ( Brett Halsey ) ; the only female character - a blonde bombshell ( played by Joi Lansing , Frank Sinatra's then-girlfriend ! ) who adds some much-needed spice to the film - is regrettably forsaken after the first reel . It's interesting that the spaceship involved is capable of diving underwater - whereas the one in , say , INVADERS FROM MARS ( 1953 ; which I rewatched recently ) , could conceal its presence by hiding in the sand dunes ! The vessel's influence on the submarine crew causes them to go berserk : a similar fate befell the astronauts who landed on the PLANET OF THE VAMPIRES ( 1965 ) ; likewise , the Arctic chase plot anticipates THE BEDFORD INCIDENT ( 1965 ) . I had read that the Commentary is a dull listen , but I enjoyed it quite a bit : as in his brother Richard's case , Alex Gordon proves very articulate and well-prepared ; though he veers off-topic a lot throughout the discussion and , even if he's speaking about unpretentious ' B ' horror flicks that were basically intended as exploitation , one is never bored to learn about this particular area of film-making . Gordon also spends a considerable amount of time listing and reminiscing about the old Hollywood stars he continuously employed ( even for bit parts ) in his films - there's an especially amusing anecdote about Anna Sten . The Criterion DVD also includes , among other things , a nice interview / career overview with the gracious Brett Halsey .
POLA X ( Leos Carax , 1999 )	Pretentious claptrap , updating Herman Melville ( ! ) , about a young man's vaguely incestuous relationship with his aristocratic mother getting transferred to his long-lost sister who has been raised by gypsies . Or something like that ? not that anyone really cares to unravel its multi-layered plot decked out with pornographic sex scenes , pseudo-symbolic imagery ( the siblings swimming in a river of blood ) and other bizarre touches ( a gypsy child repeatedly insults passers-by in the street until she is anonymously beaten to death , the deafening music of a rock group utilized in the demolition of old buildings ) . Considering the source material and the presence of Catherine Deneuve ( who at least gets to bathe in the nude ) , I was expecting a lot more from this one ; apparently , there's an even longer TV version of POLA X out there ?
THE MEDUSA AGAINST THE SON OF HERCULES ( Alberto De Martino , 1963 )	Passable low-brow mythological hokum : Richard Harrison is Perseus ? who , rather than the offspring of Zeus , here is the adopted son of Hercules ( and an unwitting deposed monarch to boot ! ) . The film provides two villains in Arturo Dominici , an ambitious man who usurps the throne by killing the current ruler and marrying his wife ( the scriptwriters must have read " Hamlet " ) , and Leo Anchoriz as his equally despicable son ? who also acts as a rival to Harrison for the heroine's hand ; the latter , then , is the usual lovely sovereign of a rival harassed empire ( but who , at least , demonstrates a prowess with bow and arrow ) . In this outing , Perseus fights a couple of monsters : a man-eating dragon residing in a lake ( ! ) and the titular paralyzing creature ( which , instead of sporting writhing snakes in its hair-do , is a vine-like Cyclops that would better fit the atmosphere of a science-fiction movie , in the vein of the shapeless one-eyed alien seen in IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE [ 1953 ] , than a sword-and-sandal flick ) ; nevertheless , the latter confrontation anticipates the Ray Harryhausen opus CLASH OF THE TITANS ( 1981 ) . With respect to the human end of the scale , the ongoing dispute is resolved over a long-running duel between Harrison and Anchoriz taking place at the heart of a tournament organized by Dominici . Director De Martino made a few peplums before going on to other " Euro-Cult " genres ( Spaghetti Western , war , horror , giallo , etc ) . Eugenio Bava ? father of cult film-maker Mario ? served as technical adviser here , presumably contributing the matte work involved in the creation of the special effects . The film's score is highlighted by a catchy but corny title tune heard over the opening and closing credits .
KILL ROMMEL ! ( Alfonso Brescia , 1969 )	Having recently watched a number of mildly enjoyable Italian WWII " B " films from the same era ? BATTLE OF EL ALAMEIN ( 1969 ) , EAGLES OVER London ( 1969 ) and CHURCHILL'S LEOPARDS ( 1970 ) ? I decided to check this one out as well , given also that it featured Anton Diffring in the lead ( surprisingly , not cast as a Nazi but a British officer ! ) . It turned out to be not as worthwhile ? then again , the only other films I'd seen from this director where a couple of sci-fi turkeys from the 1970s , so I guess I shouldn't have expected much from it to begin with ; even so , I'd still like to catch a reportedly good giallo of his ? NAKED GIRL KILLED IN THE PARK ( 1972 ) ? someday ? Anyway , from the title it's obvious that the plot deals ? as did BATTLE OF EL ALAMEIN ? with Rommel's African Campaign ; in fact , halfway through the picture , a suicidal attempt is made on his life by the Allies ? but their target turns out to have been merely a decoy ( interestingly enough , another low-brow war epic I watched not too long ago ? CASABLANCA EXPRESS [ 1989 ] ? featured a similar ruse , only the victim in its case was to have been Winston Churchill ) ! While the film offers pretty much standard excitements throughout , with a few of the action sequences being quite competently handled , its central focus lies in the battle-of-wits between martinet Diffring and a ' rebellious ' American soldier commissioned to his outfit ( blandly played by Carl Parker ) ? which feels somewhat like ' MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY In The Sand ' ; still , the comments the film makes about the impossibility of maintaining a code of ethics in wartime are perceptive enough ? but , then , the introduction of a sympathetic German soldier in the second half ( captured by the Allies but who ends up having to take care of the wounded survivors of the group through a good part of their desert trek ! ) seems rather too good to be true .
THE TROUBLE WITH GIRLS ( Peter Tewksbury , 1969 )	While , as some of you may know , I recently went through a marathon of Elvis Presley movies ( in tribute to the 30th anniversary of his passing ) ? and which emerged to be a more pleasant experience than I had anticipated ? I have to admit that I opted to check this one out mainly for the presence in it of Vincent Price . As it turned out , his role is quite brief and he doesn't even share any screen-time with Elvis ! ! Incidentally , this has to be Presley's most eccentric vehicle : it combines the period setting of the star's own FRANKIE AND JOHNNY ( 1966 ) with the carnival backdrop of his ROUSTABOUT ( 1964 ) ; however , he seems quite lost here ( this was , in fact , Elvis ' penultimate film ) in which he's given just one typical number ( " Clean Up Your Own Back Yard " ) and where his hair-do and trademark stage moves clash with the feel of quaint Americana the narrative is striving for ! Otherwise , the film features annoyingly flashy direction , while the traits of the supporting characters range from the obnoxious ( the cardsharp and the villainous store owner ) to the embarrassing ( Joyce Van Patten reminiscing about her past as a champion swimmer and Sheree North's bout with drunkenness ) . Besides , the songs are below-par ( most don't even involve the star ) and the title itself terrible ( apparently , the people who made it didn't quite know how to sell their own product ! ) ? even if we do get three prominent female roles : Marlyn Mason ( whose shop steward / piano player / instructor character seems to have been modeled on Doris Day's role in THE PAJAMA GAME [ 1957 ] ) , Nicole Jaffe as the requisite ditzy blonde , and the afore-mentioned North as a ' loose ' woman ( a single mother who murders the married sleazeball who relentlessly pesters her ) . Also featured in the cast are Edward Andrews as the long-suffering managing director of Presley's traveling show and John Carradine , criminally underused in a blink-and-you'll miss-him bit as a Shakespearean actor ( whose incongruity reminds one of Alan Mowbray's memorable similar turn in John Ford's MY DARLING CLEMENTINE [ 1946 ] ) . As for Vincent Price , he appears as " Mr . Morality " , a philosophy-quoting orator who's another specialty performer of the troupe ; having watched him in this film , I was reminded of two more of the horror icon's non-genre performances ( both of them Westerns , incidentally ) which are available for rental on DVD in my neck of the woods ? THE JACKALS ( 1967 ) and MORE DEAD THAN ALIVE ( 1968 ) .
The Over-The-Hill Gang Rides Again ( TV ) ( George McCowan , 1970 )	Fred Astaire's first forays into the Western genre , the TV medium and moustache-sporting came via this modest " old men's movie " about a trio of retired Texas Rangers who come together to help their old superior who has been wrongly jailed for robbery and murder . Walter Brennan , Chill Wills and Edgar Buchanan reprise their roles from the original THE OVER-THE-HILL GANG TV-movie made the previous year , while Astaire takes on the role of the troubled Baltimore Kid who might not be in jail or lynched ( as newspaperman Andy Devine misinforms them upon their arrival ) but has fallen on hard times and become the town drunk instead ! The thing is that Astaire is unable to accept his growing old and his shooting abilities not being what they used to so , to build up his confidence once more , the trio convince him to accept the badge of town marshal with them as his deputies ! However , Astaire deludes himself further into thinking that the roughnecks who come into town eventually leave it because of his notoriety ( rather than through the helpful ' armed and invisible ' presence of his friends ) and even befriends a much younger saloon gal who turns out to be the girl of the robber behind the crime Astaire was supposed to have committed in the first place ! The quintet of Hollywood veterans provide the only pleasure to be had from this meager production because whenever they are offscreen things get pretty dull indeed .
PEKING BLONDE ( Nicolas Gessner , 1967 )	This dreary Cold War adventure with tongue-in-cheek results in a misfire , despite interesting credentials : novel author James Hadley Chase ( I hadn't quite realized just how many of his work has been adapted for the screen , particularly from the 50s through the 70s , albeit mostly French-made programmers ? such as this one ) , screenwriter Marc Behm ( The Beatles ' HELP ! [ 1965 ] ) , director Gessner ( THE LITTLE GIRL WHO LIVES DOWN THE LANE [ 1976 ] ) , composer Francois de Roubaix ( LE SAMOURAI [ 1967 ] , DAUGHTERS OF DARKNESS [ 1971 ] ) , cast ( a couple of lovely Godard alumni ? Mireille Darc and Giorgia Moll , Bunuel regular Claudio Brook ? here making an unsuitable leading man ? and , of course , Edward G . Robinson ? who's wasted ) . While occasionally sexy and featuring colorful locations , it's neither very thrilling nor very funny ? though being , mercifully , short enough to be palatable . The only other film of Gessner's that I've watched is the similarly international though superior 12+1 ( 1969 ) ? based on the same source material as Mel Brooks ' THE TWELVE CHAIRS ( 1970 ) and for which an equally eclectic cast had been assembled , including Sharon Tate ( in her last role ) and Orson Welles .
IN SEARCH OF Dracula ( Calvin Floyd , 1975 )	I'd long been interested in this documentary on the history behind the archetypal vampire figure due to Christopher Lee's involvement ( as both narrator and actor ) but also given the fact that director Floyd would follow it with the well-regarded THE TERROR OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1975 ) , a faithful adaptation of Mary Shelley's horror classic . However , the result in this case is mainly dull and patchy at best : not only were several of the accounts involving " Dracula " novelist Bram Stoker and the inspirations for his creation ( chiefly the notorious Vlad the Impaler ) already familiar to me ? but such other interjections as J . Sheridan LeFanu's equally famous female vampire story " Carmilla " , the way the inherently predatory nature of femme fatales drew upon that of the vampire ( hence the epithet ' vamp ' ) , or the documentation of a real-life modern-day blood-sucker ( who may well have inspired George A . Romero's MARTIN [ 1978 ] ) felt like padding more than anything else ! The film's real coup , then , lies in the makers ' decision to shoot in authentic locations ? which , amazingly , have retained their Old World and genuinely eerie quality . Even so , Lee ( who appears as Vlad himself and , of course , Dracula in both an ageing guise ? the way he was actually depicted in the original ? and , bafflingly , excerpts from the Hammer film SCARS OF Dracula [ 1971 ] ) looks positively bored throughout , in spite of his typically authoritative voice ! Besides , the segment on Dracula's cinematic incarnation ? with obvious references to NOSFERATU ( 1922 ) , Bela Lugosi and , naturally , Lee's own stint in the part ? comes across as disappointingly schematic ?
MY OUTLAW BROTHER ( Elliott Nugent , 1951 )	This ‘B’ Western is the working definition of an " oater " : designed as a vehicle for the diminutive but energetic Mickey Rooney , his character is somewhat overbearing – that of a New Yorker who goes to Mexico in search of his elder brother , nicknamed " The Pride Of Tenth Avenue " ( played by Robert Stack ) , only to find him to be not as upstanding and hard-working as he had been led to believe . In fact , Stack’s the right-hand man of a notorious bandit – dubbed " El Tigre " ; when confronted by Rooney , Stack confesses to being indebted to the Mexican . . . but when ultimately revealed , the latter’s true identity greatly dismays Rooney ( a clue : Stack and the bandit never appear together in the same scene ! ) . Anyway , the film is unassuming and pretty forgettable but , at the same time , watchable enough ; on the plus side is an appropriately foreign look ( the production company took the trouble of shooting on location , albeit in a studio – the hacienda setting , incidentally , would soon become a staple of Mexican horror efforts ! ) , as well as the imposing and reliable presence of Robert Preston as the Ranger out to capture " El Tigre " . The feminine angle is represented by petite Wanda Hendrix , coveted by Stack but who finally ends up with Rooney – content , for once , to be able to get a girl his own size instead of the usual " 6-foot whales " from back home !
GLADIATORS SEVEN ( Pedro Lazaga , 1962 )	Although only a few days have elapsed since I've watched this one , I've already forgotten practically everything about it ? as my memories of the film seem to have melted into all the other peplums I've been watching of late ! Obviously , from the title one can gather that it's basically a transposition of the SEVEN SAMURAI ( 1954 ) / THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN ( 1960 ) plot to the Roman Empire ? and the rating suggests that I found it to be a middle-of-the-road peplum , not very good perhaps but not especially bad either . Richard Harrison is the lead here and , while he may not have much range as an actor , at least he's not as wooden as Dan Vadis ; as a matter of fact , over the last week , I've watched two films ? and both , incidentally , turned out to be more or less of the same quality ? by either of these Euro-stars . I do recall , however , that the print utilized for the DVD transfer of GLADIATORS SEVEN was perhaps the best of all the English-dubbed peplums I rented and , surprisingly enough , it was presented in the correct aspect ratio ( unlike the majority of the titles , which were available only in horrendous pan-and-scan editions ) .
THE MAN FROM PLANET X ( Edgar G . Ulmer , 1951 )	Apart from my obvious love of the sci-fi genre ? and particularly those films produced during its Golden Age of the 1950s ? this film held the added attraction of being directed by Czech émigré Edgar G . Ulmer who was later dubbed " King Of The B's " for the DVD generation . His other genre entries include the exceptional THE BLACK CAT ( 1934 ) , BLUEBEARD ( 1944 ) , the delirious DAUGHTER OF DR . JEKYLL ( 1957 ) , BEYOND THE TIME BARRIER ( 1960 ) , THE AMAZING TRANSPARENT MAN ( 1960 ) and L ' ATLANTIDE ( 1961 ) . Visitors from another planet ( in this case landing in Scotland , of all places ) were very much in evidence on cinema screens at the time and comparing this one to two others that were released contemporaneously ? THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL and THE THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD ? doesn't do it any favors at all . Shot in fog-bound settings to disguise its low budget origins , the material here does not even seem to have inspired the director much either since his trademark visual style ( which elevated a handful of potboilers to cult status ) is hardly visible . What the film has going for it is a likable hero ( an American journalist ) , a shady scientist who ( in a hilarious scene ) thinks nothing of beating the alien to a pulp to get him to impart his superior scientific knowledge and , unfortunately , one of the lamest aliens ever to land on this planet ; described in the film's tagline as " The WEIRDEST visitor the Earth has ever seen ! " , his Humpty Dumpty-visage and Harry Langdon-mannerisms certainly give credence to such hyperbole ! As usual with such fare , there is a moral to be found at the end of it but what I found most interesting here is that the alien takes over the humans and engages them as his slaves to repair his spaceship ? two years before IT CAME FROM OUTER SPACE ! Incidentally , co-screenwriter Jack Pollexfen also had a hand in such equally cheap but irresistible genre fare as THE SON OF DR . JEKYLL ( 1951 ) , CAPTIVE WOMEN ( 1952 ) , THE NEANDERTHAL MAN ( 1953 ) , the aforementioned DAUGHTER OF DR . JEKYLL and MONSTROSITY aka THE ATOMIC BRAIN ( 1964 ) !
Blue Rita ( 1977 )	After a four-month hiatus , I returned to Jess Franco territory once more with a DVD rental of BLUE RITA ( 1977 ) . In fact , the owner of my local DVD outlet recently purchased Anchor Bay UK's 8-Disc Franco collection while in London and , needless to say , I was immediately attracted by these titles ? despite the censor-imposed cuts on a number of them ? since I had only previously watched two films from that set , namely uncut ( albeit dubbed and full-frame ) versions of LOVE LETTERS OF A Portuguese NUN ( 1977 ) and SEXY SISTERS ( 1977 ) . I must say that I was pretty surprised by the fact that BLUE RITA ? and , I assume , the other titles as well ? sports English subtitles on the original German-language version , which is obviously the preferred way to watch it ! This fact , however , has angered me quite a bit as I had ordered the discounted R1 edition of JACK THE RIPPER ( 1976 ; from Image , and whose German version is not subtitled ) only recently ? and , unfortunately , this shipped just a couple of days before I rented the BLUE RITA disc ! ! As for the film itself , I was rather let down by it : in all probability , a Franco title from his Swiss period was not the ideal way to reacquaint myself with the director's work , especially since the last film I watched had been the rather experimental NIGHTMARES COME AT NIGHT ( 1970 ) ! Most reviews I've encountered mention the film's bizarre décor and garish color scheme ? not to mention the wacky plot ? among its assets but , really , I found the film's overall style thoroughly flat and the situations so repetitive and uninvolving ( as if the director's heart wasn't quite in it ) that it hardly matters that it is actually good to look at ! The cast , apart from Pamela Stanford ( who , disappointingly , is given little to do here ) , is rather second-rate on this occasion ? especially Martine Flety , who didn't make much of an impression as the title figure ? and , in fact , only Dagmar Burger ( ! ) as the counter-agent Sun emerged with some measure of dignity ! Of course , similarly to SEXY SISTERS , the film obviously doesn't take itself at all seriously and the numerous would-be torture sequences and an awkwardly-staged brawl provide nonstop hilarity throughout ! ! As for the nudity , well , there's plenty of it ( from both sexes ! ) but it's never really erotic ? but then this IS an exploitation piece after all !
WAR GODS OF BABYLON ( Silvio Amadio , 1962 )	Dreary peplum with a second-rate cast and crew ; as often happened in this genre , an American actor ( in this case , Howard Duff ) was recruited for the lead ? with the only notable in the Italian ranks being Arnoldo Foa ' ( appearaing here as a holy man ) . Amadio is perhaps best-known for the sexy giallo AMUCK ! ( 1972 ) ; incidentally , the scenes requiring special effects were handled by the versatile if erratic Antonio Margheriti ? this one is climaxed , as were a few other entries in the genre , by a natural disaster ( with the prototype being THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII : by the way , I should be watching the 1926 and 1959 versions of that popular and oft-filmed tale during the month-long Epic / Historical films schedule ) . The typically sturdy score , then , is the work of two distinguished composers ? Carlo Savina and Angelo Francesco Lavagnino . The excuse for a plot that would lead to that reasonably-staged final spectacle ? the city of Niniveh , having shunned the gods , is destroyed in a flood ? sees a couple of royal brothers ( the elder , a stoic but ill-at-ease Duff , rules Niniveh itself while his bland sibling is assigned the province of the once-mighty Babylon ) falling over a young girl , the sole survivor of a decimated people from the mountains who arrives at Niniveh in the company of prophet-like Foa ' . Besides , an ambitious Babylonian general deliberately creates discord among the two cities for his own personal gain ? though he's eventually routed by another officer loyal to the young king ( slain by the general and making it look like it was Duff's handiwork ! ) . Incidentally , having these Biblical cities for backdrops , necessitates that characters get saddled with such unpronounceable names as Sardanapalus and Zoroaster ! For the record , the English translation of the film's original title is THE SEVEN FLAMES OF ASSUR ? the latter being the God worshipped throughout the Assyrian Empire , and the former a reference to a rite relating to the one-week period of preparation which a new ruler has to undergo prior to his official appointment ( which is then followed by three days of festivities wherein , among other things , a lion hunt is organized ) .
Roy Colt And Winchester Jack ( Mario Bava , 1970 )	While this comic Spaghetti Western was nowhere near as bad as its low reputation amidst the director’s canon would seem to suggest , it can’t possibly hold a candle to Sergio Leone’s classic THE GOOD , THE BAD AND THE UGLY ( 1966 ) – and it would be puerile for anyone to attempt comparisons of this sort ! It’s the last of Bava’s three such genre efforts but , actually , the first I’ve watched ; I used to think that he was constrained within the number of relatively low-brow peplums he made , but even those showed greater commitment – and vigor during the action sequences . Here we get plenty of brawling and shooting , to be sure , but the handling throughout is decidedly sloppy . . . as if Bava , rather than be inspired by these traditionally ‘big’ moments , wanted to get such genre requirements out of the way ! That said , despite utilizing a wide variety of locations in its plot about two rival outlaw gangs’ quest for gold , these don’t seem to have stimulated the director’s trademark compositional skills ; even worse , the comedy element comes across as heavy-handed most of the time , resulting in a flat and drawn-out film ( even if it runs for a mere 85 minutes ) ! Brett Halsey ( from Bava’s FOUR TIMES THAT NIGHT [ 1969 ] ) and Charles Southwood don’t exactly generate fireworks in the title roles and , in fact , the best in the cast are Marilu ' Tolo as Winchester’s spirited ( and shrewd ) Indian girl and Teodoro Corra ' as The Reverend , the atypically buffoonish baddie – a Russian émigré who still can’t get over the cold of his native land . Isa Miranda ( who would work again with Bava when he treaded more familiar ground in BAY OF BLOOD [ 1971 ] ) appears as the brothel Madame in what is perhaps the most slapsticky and forced set-piece in the entire film . Hardly memorable in itself , there are still a few mild highlights in this reasonably agreeable , innocuous yet patchy genre offering : the spastic gunman at the beginning , the obviously fake snake which menaces Winchester ( reminiscent of the one in Fritz Lang’s THE Indian TOMB [ 1959 ] ) , the exploding villain , and the final shot with the heroes’ feet up in the air as they engage in yet another fisticuff . Piero Umiliani’s lively score certainly contributes to the film’s characteristically light touch .
TWILIGHT FOR THE GODS ( Joseph Pevney , 1958 )	Had I ever wondered why this vintage Rock Hudson adventure film was not included in Universal's 3-Disc / 5-film Franchise Collection dedicated to its star , the answer is now clear to me : it just is not very good . Despite a respectable pedigree ? Ernest K . ( ISLAND IN THE SKY , THE HIGH AND THE MIGHTY ) Gann adapted his own novel for the screen ? and its seafaring STAGECOACH-like plot , the film never amounts to much ? not even during a climax in which the decrepit vessel ( commandeered by Captain Hudson who is burdened with a Lord Jim-complex ) is almost lost during a storm . The characters of the crew and passengers are , likewise , all from stock : a mysterious , statuesque redhead ( Cyd Charisse ) with a past that falls for ? and cures ? our lock-jawed hero ; a sleazy second-in-command ( Arthur Kennedy ) who , at first , undermines but eventually grows to respect his superior ; initially mutinous sailors ( headed by Charles McGraw ) who , again , are on Hudson's side by the end of the film ; a trouble-making charlatan ( Leif Erickson ) is redeemed by long-suppressed love for his aging prima donna ; a womanizing drunkard ( Richard Haydn ) sparring verbally with an old priest ; an aged couple ( Vladimir Sokoloff ) , etc . For what it is worth , Hudson also has a hairy mutt for a pet ( which goes on to perish from a shark attack ) and the dramas haunting the two protagonists are depicted for us via short flashback sequences .
SARTANA IN THE VALLEY OF DEATH { Edited Version } ( Roberto Mauri , 1970 )	This is the first entry I've watched in a long-running series of Spaghetti Westerns revolving around the titular figure , played here by William Berger ; as such , he displays no particular features that would make him stand out from similar anti-heroes ( such as The Man With No Name or Django ) and , in fact , is never even referred to by that nickname ! Incidentally , this seems to have been considerably trimmed for American export ? given that the running-time is a mere 79 minutes ; what remains is a thinly-plotted affair which virtually resolves itself into one long chase ! Incidentally , the R2 C'Est La Vie DVD sports German credit titles and even the first spoken bits of dialogue is in that language ! Sartana springs a trio of no-good brothers from jail intending to cut in on a fortune in gold that awaits them ; however , the latter soon double-cross him and he's stranded on foot and without provisions in Death Valley ( hence the title ) ? they also get even with their former associates ( including puppet-maker Luciano Pigozzi ) for letting them take the rap . Eventually , of course , Sartana catches up with the gang ? taking some time-out to romance a gal who aided in his convalescence ? but she too turns out to be harboring ideas above her station ! At the finale , the ' outlaw ' is revealed to be a courier for the American cavalry entrusted with a crucial message ? and his reward for the accomplishment of said mission is that he gets to keep the brothers ' gold for himself ! For the record , the song playing over the opening credits " King For A Day " is quite decent and is even warbled , for no good reason , by a blonde bar-room chanteuse at one point in the film .
I WILL WALK LIKE A CRAZY HORSE ( Fernando Arrabal , 1973 )	This was my third Arrabal movie after VIVA LA MUERTE ( 1971 ) and THE GUERNICA TREE ( 1975 ) ; all three were released as a DVD Collection by Cult Films – however , I came to own all of them via alternate formats . . . which , frankly , saved me from doling out my hard-earned cash for the set ( especially since I only really liked THE GUERNICA TREE ) ! To be honest , Arrabal has here reconfirmed himself an exponent of the kind of Surrealism which I find hollow , ostentatious and positively grating – much like the work of his contemporary Alejandro Jodorowsky ( though in his case I’m , as at least I’m partial to two of the four films I’ve watched so far ) . Mind you , as I’ve said more often than I care to remember , my all-time favorite film-maker is Luis Bunuel – perhaps Cinema’s foremost Surrealist – and the art form itself is one I feel to be most congenial to the language of film . . . but not when it resorts to emetic , shocking-for-shock’s sake detail ( such as the pointless images here of ejaculation , scatology , various sexual perversions , and ending with cannibalism ) ! What little plot there is concerns a murder mystery , which then develops into a chase when the victim’ own son is somehow targeted as the perpetrator ; the unsubtly-named Police Inspector Gay follows the handsome anti-hero into the desert , where the latter meets a magically-endowed dwarf . In spite of the danger , the man returns to the city ( Paris ) and takes the little man along : the latter’s incongruity with his surroundings – he’s a shepherd who never caught up with the modern world – is fairly perceptive and , even if the midget’s behavior is generally nothing short of obnoxious , this constitutes just about the only tolerable aspect of an otherwise grossly self-indulgent film . For what it’s worth , everything comes to a head when one character takes over the personality of the other ! Incidentally , given the number of ‘humiliating’ scenes she appears in , it’s baffling how a respected actress like Emmanuelle Riva ( playing the mother ) allowed herself to be involved with this kind of extreme stuff ! And , just as much of a paradox is the fact that , for all his intended savagery and pointed irreverence , Arrabal gives the film a curiously polished look – which is accompanied besides by a quite agreeable soundtrack ( highlighting gibberish children’s vocals ) . . .
SPINOUT ( Norman Taurog , 1966 )	This wasn't shown in time for the 30th anniversary from Elvis Presley's passing , but it did turn up on TCM UK some time later ; still , it took me this long to watch and , as a matter of fact , only opted to check the film out alongside two contemporary vehicles by fellow singers Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin – that said , it can't really compare with them ! It's the second of three Presley titles with a racing milieu , though this element isn't as much to the fore here as in the others ; conveniently , he doubles as a swooning singer / guitarist with a band – and most of the running-time sees him dodging a couple of marriage proposals from eminent figures in the community ! It transpires that even the tomboyish female drummer in his outfit secretly pines for him . . . but , given the film's jejeune nature , everything is neatly sorted out by the end – as a writer researching The Perfect Male eventually hitches up with Presley's proposed racing employer ( played by a U . S . TV stalwart who was completely unknown to me but is a real dead ringer for Darren McGavin ! ) , the latter's young daughter ( Shelley Fabares , from the star's earlier vehicle GIRL HAPPY [ 1965 ] ) realizes she loves her father's goofy secretary after all , and the drummer ( who's something of a gourmet ) finds a like-minded soulmate in , of all things , a highway policeman ! Not that it matters much given their thankless roles but two veteran character actors from Hollywood's Golden Age - Cecil Kellaway and Una Merkel - also appear in this film . The songs aren't exactly memorable either and , while the film's certainly harmless in itself , it's also not engaging enough to warrant more than a cursory viewing ( I , for one , was greatly surprised to learn that it was co-scripted by Theodore J . Flicker – who , soon after , would write and direct the cult political satire THE PRESIDENT'S ANALYST [ 1967 ] with James Coburn ) . . .
EASY VIRTUE ( Alfred Hitchcock , 1928 )	This sophisticated melodrama from a Noel Coward play is clearly unsuited to Hitchcock's particular talents : the initial court-room sequence is the best , allowing the director to experiment with camera technique ( especially his creative use of the dissolve to jump from the present into the past and back again ) ; the rest is a succession of clichéd situations , making it a rather tedious whole . The most notable cast member is Ian Hunter , though leading lady Isabel Jeans did go on to play prominent roles in GIGI ( 1958 ) and HEAVENS ABOVE ! ( 1963 ) . With this , I've only 3 more extant Hitchcock Silents left to watch - THE PLEASURE GARDEN ( 1925 ) , DOWNHILL ( 1927 ) and CHAMPAGNE ( 1928 ) ; his second film , THE MOUNTAIN EAGLE ( 1926 ) , is believed lost .
Creature With The Atom Brain ( Edward L . Cahn , 1955 )	This one's basically an update of Boris Karloff's Mad Doctor cycle of the 1930s and 1940s , many of which were actually made at Columbia . It concerns an ex-gangster teaming up with an eminent German scientist who has fallen into disrepute of late ; together , they contrive to re-animate a series of dead bodies ( apparently , their second life-expectancy is very short ! ) in order to eliminate the people involved in convicting the mobster ? unsurprisingly , some of the victims end up themselves as zombies ! ! In this respect , the film is mildly entertaining ? but , in view of the utter lack of novelty on display ( the means of resuscitation may have changed but the result is the same as before ) , it tends to feel draggy even at a mere 69 minutes ! A measure of the film's low-budget is the fact that the montage half-way through of the zombies ' exploits is assembled from shots that would eventually form part of the film's very own climax ! The lead here is played by lanky Richard Denning ( from TARGET EARTH [ 1954 ] and THE BLACK SCORPION [ 1957 ] ? neither of which I've watched ) as a scientist / cop . By the way , director Cahn later made the similarly cheapskate IT ! THE TERROR FROM BEYOND SPACE ( 1958 ) . CREATURE WITH THE ATOM BRAIN is actually the first Sam Katzman-produced horror film I've checked out ? and it's one of four that were recently packaged together in Columbia's ongoing " Icons Of Horror " series of genre Box Sets ; a second , THE GIANT CLAW ( 1957 ) , followed this straight away ? and , even if I wasn't exactly enthused with either of them , I'd still like to catch up with the remaining two titles ( namely THE WEREWOLF [ 1956 ] and ZOMBIES OF MORA TAU [ 1957 ] ) . Incidentally , watching this I was reminded of a couple more low-brow sci-fi outings I had rented as a double-feature DVD some years back , which I might as well add to my collection at this juncture i . e . Edgar G . Ulmer's very minor THE AMAZING TRANSPARENT MAN ( 1960 ) and the semi-interesting THE BRAIN THAT WOULDN'T DIE ( 1962 ) ?
TROG ( Freddie Francis , 1970 )	This is another horror outing which , to me , seems rather unworthy of its maligned reputation ; true , the film proved a less-than-fitting swan-song for one of Hollywood’s foremost dramatic actresses – Joan Crawford – but it’s certainly not all that bad per se . The plot is simple and familiar – therefore , entirely predictable : a Missing Link is discovered in a cave ( having been frozen in ice for millions of years and recently thawed out ! ) . Naturally , scientists the world over cherish the opportunity to study the creature . . . but the locals – led by Michael Gough – feel threatened by its presence and want to destroy Trog ( as it comes to be known ) . Crawford manages to tame and educate the beast ; however , its primitive instincts are only dormant ( so that Crawford has to repeatedly ask for her ‘hypo-gun’ ! ) . Eventually , Trog is provoked and runs amok ( Gough’s demise is cleverly done ) – leading to a climactic chase and the Missing Link’s own violent death in its natural habitat ; incidentally , while not exactly inspired , the make-up for the creature is passable ( within the confines of the budget ) . Future Lucio Fulci alumnus David Warbeck as a newsman reporting the historic find , Hammer regular Thorley Walters as a short-tempered magistrate and Chloe Franks as a little girl Trog absconds with , round out the supporting cast . The handling is likewise straightforward and very much typical of its time – making for a colorful ( Desmond Dickinson , best-known for the brooding quality he brought to Laurence Olivier’s Oscar-winning adaptation of HAMLET [ 1948 ] , was the cinematographer no less ! ) and generally enjoyable film . It does descend occasionally to the level of Camp – thanks , in particular , to Gough’s delicious ( if one-dimensional ) villainy but also Trog’s quaint flashbacks to the dinosaur age – which , actually , accentuates the fun factor of the piece ! Given that the Warner DVD was bare-bones , I opted to get the film from other sources ; unfortunately , what I ended up with proved problematic : dizzying jerkiness whenever the camera moved and intermittent freezing ( which , finally , forced me to finish watching it on my computer . . . where the damn thing played without a hitch and , bafflingly , even the picture was perfectly stable ! ) . I’d love to catch up with Crawford’s remaining latter-day horror roles someday i . e . STRAIT-JACKET ( 1964 ) , I SAW WHAT YOU DID ( 1965 ) – both of these for the legendary William Castle – and BERSERK ( 1967 ) – a Herman Cohen production , who was also behind TROG . As for director Francis , he was responsible for at least two more films ( both superior to this one and featuring that formidable star combo of Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee ) in which a relic from the past unleashes a wave of terror and bloodshed – namely THE SKULL ( 1965 ) and THE CREEPING FLESH ( 1973 ) .
THIS MAN CAN'T DIE ( Gianfranco Baldanello , 1967 )	Second-tier American leading man Guy Madison plays a character whose notoriety precedes him in this Spaghetti Western ? which , having very modest credentials emerges as essentially routine ( though featuring a nice enough score ) . The plot offers some mild interest : the title , incidentally , refers to a wounded man involved in the murderous assault by gun-runners on a ranch ? the property of the family of their pursuer , cavalry agent Madison . The latter's younger siblings are determined that the injured party , now in their charge , lead them to the gang boss responsible ; ultimately , the identity of either mystery man proves a surprise ? and both , ironically , become involved with one of Madison's sisters ( another is raped during the raid ) . Euro-Cult starlet Rosalba Neri appears unremarkably as a saloon hostess , and Madison's ex-flame .
REVENGE OF URSUS ( Luigi Capuano , 1961 )	Despite a meaningless title and a lead ( Samson Burke ! ) who gives new meaning to the word " wooden " , this is not too bad for what is essentially a formulaic muscleman effort . The plot is typically chockful of court intrigues within Ursus ' camp ? by way of the King's deceitful rotund consultant who contrives to have his own master killed , Ursus convicted of the crime and appointing bald-headed Livio Lorenzon ( an above-average village who keeps a leopard for a pet ) as his people's new ruler ; a couple of attractive ladies : one good ( Ursus ' fiancée ' , of course ) and one evil ( who , clad in an iron mask , even disguises herself as the latter at the King's wedding ceremony ! ) ; and , to up the suspense factor somewhat , an independent-minded kid brother for the hero ( from whom he tries to keep his superhuman past by posing as an indefatigable farmer ) ! For what it is worth , at one point the action once again requires Ursus to engage in a tug-of-war with a number of elephants ? although here he needs their impending threat to his little sibling for him to eventually manage in suppressing them !
THE SURVIVOR ( David Hemmings , 1981 ) { Edited Version }	David Hemmings is perhaps best-known for starring in Michelangelo Antonioni's BLOW-UP ( 1966 ) and Dario Argento's DEEP RED ( 1975 ) , so it's rather unsurprising that elements from these two movies find themselves in his fifth directorial stint shot entirely in Australia . Robert Powell plays the title role - the pilot of a plane which crashlands but who managed to evade an even greater tragedy by bringing it down in a field ( which occasionally serves as a children's playground ) ; Jenny Agutter is an enigmatic medium and eyewitness to the crash who uneasily teams with an amnesiac Powell to find the real cause of the accident ; and , in a mere couple of scenes , Joseph Cotten adds a modicum of dignity to the proceedings as the local priest . Being adapted from a James Herbert novel , it can't help but involve the supernatural as everything is definitely not as it seems on the surface : the investigating officials are being killed off by the vengeful spirits of the dead passengers , a high-ranking airline official is somehow involved in the crash and Robert Powell is shown at the very end to have not survived the disaster after all ! Intriguing ? Definitely . Confusing ? You bet . Exciting ? Not really . Unfortunately , the right ingredients are there but the soufflé obstinately fails to rise , as it were . For what it's worth , Brian May's electronic score ( not the Queen guitarist , mind you ) is quite effective and the version I watched was edited down to 87 minutes from an original length of 99 or 110 , depending on which sources you believe !
THE CORPSE ( Viktors Ritelis , 1970 )	With a plot that's heavily derivative of LES DIABOLIQUES ( 1954 ) , this is one of the oddest British horror films of its time . In itself , it's watchable but not especially rewarding ; there are , however , good performances from Michael Gough ( playing a despicable tyrant , naturally ) and lovely Sharon Gurney ( in her film debut as his long-suffering daughter ) . Still , its sporadic outburst of technique - rapid-fire flashbacks and dream sequences shown in negative - often doesn't work and the twist ending , practically negating everything that has gone on before , is baffling to say the least !
MASTERS OF HORROR : IMPRINT ( TV ) ( Takashi Miike , 2006 )	I saw a bit of Japanese cult director Miike at the 2004 Venice Film Festival , though I hated his own contribution to it i . e . IZO ; for the record , this opinion is true of all that I've checked out so far from his incredibly vast ( and mostly sick ) body work and this latter venture into Miike's filmography certainly doesn't break the trend . It's easily the most extreme entry in the " Masters Of Horror " series , but also possibly the least ; incidentally , the TV-film's planned screening was eventually banned on account of its disturbing imagery ( not only graphic depictions of torture but the female protagonist is a " freak " ) and themes ( involving such taboo material as incest and abortion ) . Even if , typical of Asian films , the attention to period detail and the color scheme are notable , what really stands out here ( and this is not meant as a compliment ) is leading man Billy Drago's rampant histrionics and , even more so , the presence of the heroine's unforgettably ( indeed amusingly ) vile , misshapen evil twin . At the end of the day , the episode strives too much for significance by dealing with too many issues and ends up going on too long for its own good .
COLOR OF NIGHT ( Richard Rush , 1994 ) { Director's Cut }	What do Stanley Kubrick , Sergio Leone , David Lean , Terence Malick and Richard Rush have in common apart from all being film directors ? They each spent , for one reason or another , a considerable length of time away from behind the cameras but , while the first four each bounced back with considerable achievements , Richard Rush gave us the universally-reviled COLOR OF NIGHT . Rush is hardly fit to stand in the company of such mavericks but his short filmography is not uninteresting and he did give us one undisputed modern classic , THE STUNT MAN ( 1980 ) , a career-high for him ( earning even a Best Direction Academy Award nod ) and which , ironically , he made just before that prolonged hiatus . Truth be told , he did make a fascinating feature-length documentary about the production woes he had to suffer through on that picture but still , after some 16 years in the wilderness , one expects better . . . Which is not to say that COLOR OF NIGHT is a total flop - despite its having nabbed the Razzie Award for Worst Film of the Year . In fact , I was pleasantly surprised at how perversely enjoyable the film eventually was . . . sometimes for all the wrong reasons , of course ! Anyway , while the premise - starting with their psychoanalyst , the components of a group therapy at a swank L . A . suburb is being targeted by a knife-wielding assassin - could have been worked out into an effective neo-noir , this certainly isn't it . For starters , the atmosphere is all wrong and , even if they get to engage in some pretty laughable sex scenes , there's no chemistry between leads Bruce Willis ( playing the replacement shrink , he even gets to show his manly assets a couple of times during the film ) and Jane March ( as a mystery girl ) ; with respect to the suspects / victims , they're such an assortment of wackos and losers - albeit featuring capable actors such as Brad Dourif and Lance Henriksen - as to seem like caricatures ( then again , Ruben Blades ' performance as the flustered Mexican cop on the case isn't any less hammy ) ! All in all , it's yet another shameless Hitchcock rip-off by way of BASIC INSTINCT ( 1992 ) - with VERTIGO ( 1958 ) and PSYCHO ( 1960 ) being plundered for the admittedly clever denouement and the climactic cliffhanger even gives a nod towards NORTH BY NORTHWEST ( 1959 ) for good measure - though the film is too slackly-handled to exert much of a grip throughout and it doesn't even have the benefit of a stylish veneer a ' la the work of Brian De Palma . In short , it is merely preposterous and overblown . . . all the way from Dominic Frontiere's music score to the version I watched actually turning out to be an unheralded " Director's Cut " , running 17 minutes longer than theatrical-release prints !
SPHINX ( Franklin J . Schaffner , 1981 )	Rather foolish attempt at a Hitchcock-type mystery-thriller , improbably exchanging espionage for archaeology and based on the Robin Cook novel ; incidentally , I’ve recently acquired another adaptation of his work – COMA ( 1978 ) – in honor of the late Richard Widmark . For the record , director Schaffner had just made THE BOYS FROM BRAZIL ( 1978 ) – a similarly fanciful but much more engrossing suspenser and , unfortunately , SPHINX was a false step from which his so-far impressive career would not recover . Despite its scope and reasonably decent cast , however , this one proved a critical and commercial flop – mainly because the narrative just isn’t very thrilling : in fact , it’s quite dreary ( feeble attempts at horror – the archaeologist heroine having to put up with entombment , rotting corpses galore , and even an attack by a flurry of bats – notwithstanding ) . Lesley Anne-Down is the lovely leading lady , stumbling upon a lost treasure – it’s actually been hidden away by a local sect to prevent it from falling into the hands of foreigners , who have appropriated much of the country’s heritage ( under the pretext of culture ) for far too long . Sir John Gielgud turns up in a thankless bit early on as the antique dealer who puts Down on the way of the loot , and pays for this ‘act of treason’ with his life . Typically , it transpires that some characters are the opposite of what they claim to be – so that apparent allies ( such as Maurice Ronet ) are eventually exposed as villains , while an ambiguous figure ( Frank Langella , whom I saw at London in early 2007 in a West End performance of " Frost / Nixon " , which has now been turned into a film ) goes from Down’s antagonist to her lover and back again , as he determines to keep the wealth belonging to Egyptian high priest Menephta a national treasure .
ALASKA HIGHWAY ( Frank McDonald , 1943 )	This is the third of the Poverty Row Pine / Thomas productions I’ve watched , and it was immediately followed by another – DANGEROUS PASSAGE ( 1944 ) . I’ve already forgotten all about the first two , AERIAL GUNNER ( 1943 ) and GAMBLER’S CHOICE ( 1944 ) – both starring Chester Morris ( whom I hope to see presently at his prime in ALIBI [ 1929 ] and the " Standard Version " of THE BAT WHISPERS [ 1930 ] ) – which I only came across last year , and these are liable to share the same fate ( in fact , I’d say they’re even lesser achievements ) ! Anyway , here we get yet another popular actor from the 1920s and 1930s who had since slipped into B-movies , Richard Arlen ( best-known for playing the hero of that much - desired - but - still - bafflingly - M . I . A . - on-DVD horror classic ISLAND OF LOST SOULS [ 1932 ] ) – by the way , he was also in AERIAL GUNNER ! ; ditto for his leading lady Jean Parker – who had once worked for the likes of Frank Capra , George Cukor and Rene ' Clair ( though she did land the heroine part in a fine ‘B’ title not long after this , namely Edgar G . Ulmer’s BLUEBEARD [ 1944 ] ) . For what it’s worth , the film presents an unusual slant on the typical propaganda effort churned out by Hollywood during WWII i . e . the building of a highway in Alaska that would facilitate the movement of troops , as well as their equipment and rations , preparing to ‘meet’ the Japanese army . However , the approach is strictly formula stuff – which includes romantic rivalry , comedy relief sidekick and a climax which incorporates tragedy , reconciliation , and a general best-foot-forward attitude ! There’s not much else to say except that the film , thankfully brief at 67 minutes , is mildly diverting ( but , as I said , totally unsurprising ) along the way ; incidentally , scriptwriters Lewis R . Foster and Maxwell Shane were ( or would become ) directors in their own right – the former had even helmed a number of classic Laurel & Hardy shorts , while the latter seemed most interested in noir films ( albeit with a psychological leaning ) !
MOON ZERO TWO ( Roy Ward Baker , 1969 )	One of Hammer's oddest films is this one , their sole foray into Science-Fiction , which has quite a maligned reputation but emerges to be reasonably tolerable under the circumstances . It obviously won't stand comparisons with the likes of Stanley Kubrick's 2001 : A SPACE ODYSSEY ( 1968 ) , though still valuable for being one of the very first films to exploit the 1969 landing on the moon . The famed British studio were noted for making expensive-looking Gothic Horrors with limited means ; here , however , the low budget shows through as the futuristic sets they came up with are rather shoddy ! For what it's worth , the film does contain at least one Hammer-type image involving a space suit found to be inhabited by a skeleton . Incidentally , MOON ZERO TWO has been referred to as a Space Western ( in view of its mining , dynamiting , discovery of a priceless mineral , claim-jumping and shoot-outs ) : so far so good ? however , having an outer space saloon ( complete with dancing cowgirls ) in 2021 is beyond ridiculous ! Peter Hyams had the good sense to forego such puerile shenanigans when he made his own ' Space Western ' with Sean Connery , OUTLAND ( 1981 ) . Having said that , It's undeniably superior to ZETA ONE ( 1969 ) , which I watched recently , though still containing a definite camp factor ? starting with the goofy animated credit sequence ( accompanied by a decidedly infectious title tune ) but extending to hilarious costumes and props ? not to mention the presence of a dapper megalomaniac villain ( by the way , as was the case with ZETA ONE itself , the cast features a member of the " Carry On " gang in Bernard Bresslaw , again , appearing as a baddie albeit a dimwitted brute ! ) . Having mentioned the cast , Hammer stalwart Michael Ripper turns up here as well for one brief scene ; as for the film's American lead , James Olson ( with receding blond hair ! ) doesn't exactly set the screen on fire . It's interesting , though , that co-star Adrienne Corri would appear in Hammer's more traditional VAMPIRE CIRCUS ( though still contriving a twist in its tail ) and Kubrick's subsequent piece of sophisticated sci-fi , A CLOCKWORK ORANGE , within the same year ( 1971 ) .
FUN IN ACAPULCO ( Richard Thorpe , 1963 )	While the title itself promised little more than the fluff the film undoubtedly turned out to be , I was still let down by this Presley vehicle – given that it was helmed by the man behind one of his biggest successes and best films , JAILHOUSE ROCK ( 1957 ) ! The star plays an ex-trapeze artist with a guilt complex ( ! ) , while Mexico and Ursula Andress provide the scenery . The narrative involves Elvis befriending a resourceful kid who gets him singing jobs ( ! ) , plus a tedious subplot comprising the jealousy of both a lifeguard ( Andress’ would-be boyfriend ) and a lady bullfighter who has her eyes set on Presley . Paul Lukas turns up as Andress’ father , a deposed member of royalty now forced to performing chef’s duties – the image of him in an over-sized cap , coupled with his thick Hungarian accent , proves unintentionally hilarious . . . but his is a welcome presence , nonetheless . Needless to say , Elvis sings a number of mostly forgettable songs during the course of the film : the best of these , unsurprisingly , is another Leiber / Stoller song – " Bossa Nova Baby " .
EATEN ALIVE ( Tobe Hooper , 1977 )	Director Hooper's mainstream follow-up to his seminal THE Texas CHAIN SAW MASSACRE ( 1974 ) doesn't live up to its predecessor ? or its own middling reputation as a blackly comedic macabre venture whose plot , basically , involves a crazy hotel owner deep in bayou country who feeds his customers to a crocodile living in the swamp adjoining his place ! The film , in fact , is a bit of a mess ? generally heavy-handed and peopled by obnoxious characters ( especially Neville Brand as the grizzled psycho , William Finley ? the titular figure of Brian De Palma's PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE [ 1974 ] himself ? as a weirdo staying at the hotel with his family , and a young Robert Englund as a yokel who deems himself the self-appointed local stud ) . Besides , it manages to embarrass a handful of Hollywood veterans ( Brand , Mel Ferrer as the dying father of one of the latter's victims ? incidentally , he'd be featured in another genre offering by this title , Umberto Lenzi's Italian zombie flick , which I had intended to acquire for this challenge but its late-night screening began much later than advertised and my VHS tape ran out [ ! ] , Stuart Whitman as the local cop and Carolyn Jones as the wizened Madam of the local bordello ) . Marilyn Burns , heroine of Texas CHAIN SAW , appears as Finley's wife and is once again degraded by spending most of the running-time strapped to a bed and , obviously , giving her vocal chords another workout whenever possible ! Though , as expected , the film incorporates gratuitous nudity by a variety of girls into its narrative , the best scenes involve Finley and Burns ' little daughter being pursued within an inch of her life by Brand ? who then unleashes the crocodile ( which doesn't look that good , or even that much ) on her ! The abrupt high-pitched finale recalls both Hooper's own earlier film and Wes Craven's THE HILLS HAVE EYES ( 1977 ) which , coincidentally , I watched the very same day as this one ; as far as I'm aware , Michael Reeves ' WITCHFINDER GENERAL ( 1968 ) was the first to use this highly effective practice ? concluding events on a downbeat tone despite the inherent happy ending ?
DRUM ( Steve Carver , 1976 )	I shared Michael Elliott's opinion of MANDINGO ( 1975 ) but I can't say that I do the same for his take on its sequel , DRUM ( 1976 ) . While I concede that it's a ( slightly ) better film - it's not as dull as its predecessor , nor does it take itself so seriously - I feel that the exploitation elements are even more pronounced this time around . There is a lot more nudity in DRUM ( its sexual perversions extending to both male and female homosexuality ! ) , for instance , and the plot is even tawdrier : John Colicos is a campy gay French trader who wants to bed black stud Ken Norton - unbeknownst to him , the son of a white woman who just happens to be the madam of the most popular brothel in the area , and where all the various parties converge : including Warren Oates as the elder version of the character played by Perry King in MANDINGO , his puritanical ( ! ) future wife Fiona Lewis and Colicos himself , whose unruly slave Yaphet Kotto is made to fight Norton but subsequently becomes his pal . Besides , there's Cheryl " Rainbeaux " Smith as Oates ' horny teenage daughter who's after every colored male in the household ! The version I watched ( from the R2 DVD ) featured a somewhat faded pan-and-scan print : again , being 100 minutes long , the film seems to have suffered some edits - even when taking into consideration the NTSC to PAL conversion factor - from the official length of 110 minutes ; in fact , Mike's description of the climax - which I didn't find excessively violent - suggests that it may have been trimmed somewhat .
RED-HEADED BABY ( Rudolf Ising , 1931 )	Included on Warners ' DVD of CIMARRON ( 1931 ) , what I said about the latter ? that it is marred by the primitive technique of the time ? also applies to this " Merrie Melodies " cartoon when compared to the studio's heyday in this art form . As was the custom back then , its sole raison d'etre is to promote a current hit tune ( for which it is named ) ; this is set against a backdrop of a toy-maker's workshop , where his creations come to life at night , and he eventually joins the chorus at the end . Typical ingredients here are the fact that the titular belle is at once romanced by a toy soldier and coveted by a large spider ( which the latter ultimately defeats , with the help of the other toys ) . In the long run , though certainly a harmless enough short in itself , both the style of animation and the overall approach is very dated and , frankly , too corny to be appealing .
The All-New Popeye Hour ( N / A , 1978 ) ( TV )	POPEYE AND BIG FOOT ; POPEYE'S ENGINE COMPANY ; GETTING POPEYE'S GOAT I used to lap these up as a kid but , catching an episode of the series comprising three cartoons back-to-back now i . e . several years later ( they preceded the theatrical screening of the pirate yarn RAIDERS OF THE SEVEN SEAS [ 1953 ] ) , I can see how they don't hold up all that well ! The character of Popeye isn't exactly sympathetic to begin with , Olive Oyl distinctly overbearing and Bluto's antics failed to elicit much interest either ? in short , the scripts were alarmingly thin , fairly awful and generally unfunny to boot . They're strictly juvenile fare , yet I doubt today's kids would even have the patience to stick with them ! ; furthermore , the animation style is unattractive . Taking each short per se , I guess they improved from one to the other : after the initial shock , one adapted to its mediocre quality as it were , so that the third cartoon easily results in being the most enjoyable of the lot ? Popeye is entrusted with a mascot army goat whose immense appetite causes him no end of mischief ( hardly original , I know , but always an amusing ploy ) . One interesting element here was that the shorts were bookended with Popeye delivering moralistic bits of wisdom to the kids in the audience .
Giovannona Coscialunga , Disonorata Con Onore ( Sergio Martino , 1973 )	Although usually I wouldn't touch such lowbrow comedies with a ten-foot pole in spite of their vintage , ever since I attended the 61st Venice Film Festival in 2004 and met with several second-league ( but , as it turned out , still highly enthusiastic ) Italian directors , I've been trying to catch up with any of their films which crop up ( invariably late at night ) on Italian TV practically every week ! This fondly-remembered ( but , in retrospect , only very mildly amusing ) sex comedy is chiefly notable today for two reasons : it marked a turning point in the careers of both its female star ( the half-Maltese Edwige Fenech ) and director Martino , both of whom were chiefly known until then for a series of grisly and erotic giallos ; and also because its suggestive title ? which translates roughly to " Joanie Longthighs , Honorably Dishonored " and which was changed at the last minute to emulate the unexpected success of Lina Wertmuller's current film , THE SEDUCTION OF MIMI ( 1973 ) whose original title was also similarly long-winded ( as would come to be her fashion ) ? got it into hot waters with the censors at the time . Fenech is , of course , lovely and throws herself enthusiastically into the role of a streetwalker with a heart of gold who is engaged by a shady businessman to pose as his wife in order to seduce a Government minister with a roving eye for other men's wives in return for some official favors ; unfortunately , contrary to expectations , her nude scenes are few and far between and never quite as explicit as previous films I've watched her in like TOP SENSATION ( 1969 ) and THE STRANGE VICE OF MRS . WARDH ( 1971 ) . Incidentally , unlike her sometime co-star Barbara Bouchet , even though she was present at the Venice Film Festival I attended in her capacity as co-producer of the Al Pacino / Jeremy Irons version of THE MERCHANT OF VENICE ( 2004 ) , she did not appear at any of the screenings of her films or the press conferences which preceded them ! Anyway , in this film , which plays like a low-brow , broader version of a Feydeau pochade with a dash of " Pygmalion " thrown in for good measure , Fenech was reteamed with Italian comic ( and future TV show host ) Pippo Franco after another " celebrated " and controversial sex comedy , QUEL GRAN PEZZO DELLA UBALDA TUTTA NUDA E TUTTA CALDA ( 1972 ) , which I've also caught up with quite recently and enjoyed slightly more . Ultimately , Vittorio Caprioli ( a prolific character actor I " discovered " at the Venice Film Festival ) as the womanizing MP and Riccardo Garrone ( as Fenech's pimp who's got ideas above his station ) come off best . Having said that , the film does manage to amuse in spots and the reckless driver ( which turns out to be an escaped blind lunatic ) and the final ' pimp duel ' sequences are the film's highlights . My local DVD rental store has gotten hold of a couple more of these Italian comedies on DVD and , against my better judgment perhaps , I'll give them a try too one of these days ?
Las Trompetas Del Apocalipsis ( 1969 )	The Italian title for this Spanish-Italian co-production , I CALDI AMORI DI UNA MINORENNE ( which literally translates to " The Hot Loves Of A Minor " ) leads one to expect a mildly saucy sex comedy which proliferated in the Italian cinema between the late 60s and early 80s ; the presence in the cast of Tyrone Power's daughter , Romina - who had previously appeared in the title role of Jesus Franco's MARQUIS DE SADE'S JUSTINE ( 1968 ) - only adds to this impression . However , what we actually get is something a lot different and even less appetizing . As it happens , despite being top-billed , Power's role is only secondary , and serves only as a red herring to boot . The plot deals with an inexplicable spate of suicides among London's Swinging 60s hippie youths and the subsequent investigation by one of the victims ' brother among the underbelly of dope-addled , peace-loving , long-haired freaks who go by such tell-tale names as " The Fool " , " The Prophet " , " The Romanian " , etc . Ultimately , the film isn't entirely disagreeable to watch , thanks in no small measure to its horrendously dated ' hipness ' , awful would-be psychedelic songs and risible dialogue . Apparently , the moral of the piece is that listening to music while under the influence of drugs eventually leads to suicide ! Go figure . . .
THE TALL WOMEN ( Gianfranco Parolini , Sidney W . Pink and Rudolf Zehetgruber , 1966 )	To begin with , this isn't really a Spaghetti Western ? even if it's listed on websites devoted to the subgenre ; while the American title recalls Raoul Walsh's THE TALL MEN ( 1955 ) , the original Spanish one ? LAS SIETES MAGNIFICAS ? would wish to liken the film to THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN ( 1960 ) , but such comparisons don't do it any favors at all ! Incidentally , I have to wonder what was the purpose of employing three separate directors for it ( though billed on the print I watched under one idiotic name , Cehett Grooper ) when the result is so thoroughly bland ; I presume , however , that each director was basically responsible for supervising the end product on its respective home ground ! The plot ? seven women , traveling to the West for marriage purposes and the sole survivors of a caravan massacre , have to contend with marauding Apaches during their trek to the nearest Army fort ? is somewhat unusual but , as I said , the uninspired treatment lets it down . Casting is below par , too ? led by a past-her-prime Anne Baxter , Maria Perschy ( initially irritating as she repeatedly breaks into German bemoaning her infant's death ) and Gustavo Rojo ( belatedly introduced as the would-be hero , since he's incapacitated almost instantly ! ) . Two of the women are Italian acrobat sisters whose exploits are , at one point , incongruously accompanied by a typical circus fanfare ; I say this because , for the most part , the film's tone is relatively sober ? with a fairly violent opening , a surprisingly gruesome stay at an Indian cemetery , and even having one of the women themselves ( who has been abducted by the Apaches ) found bloodied and scalped !
THE IMMORTAL ONE ( Alain Robbe-Grillet , 1963 )	While the print of this one was more pleasing than the other Robbe-Grillet titles I watched to commemorate his recent passing , the viewing itself was marred by a couple of instances of temporary freezing . The film , then , was perhaps the most pretentious and , well , tedious of the lot – given that there’s hardly any discernible plot ! Again , we’re thrown into a remote Arabian locale ( complete with relentless – and , consequently , extremely irritating – religious chanting ) with , at its centre , a glamorous yet vapid femme fatale in Francoise Brion – to whom the title is presumably referring . Frankly , I’m at pains to recall just what went on in the film – even if only a little over 36 hours have elapsed since then . . . which is never a good thing but , usually , this is a predicament I find myself in after having watched some mindless / low-brow action flick and not a respected art-house one ! What’s certain is that , as a film about the search for a missing enigmatic girl , it’s far less compelling and satisfying than Michelangelo Antonioni’s L’AVVENTURA ( 1960 ) ! Incidentally , the bewildered hero of THE IMMORTAL ONE is played by Jacques Doniol-Valcroze – who happens to be a film-maker in his own right , actually one of the lesser ( and , therefore , least-known ) exponents of the " Nouvelle Vague " . Though I have to admit that – in the long run – I was disappointed by the mini-marathon dedicated to this influential novelist and highbrow film-maker , I’d still be interested in checking out the other efforts he directed ( not to mention hope to catch these three again in better representations and , perhaps , a more amenable frame-of-mind ) . In any case , I still have Alain Resnais’ demanding but highly-acclaimed LAST YEAR IN MARIENBAD ( 1961 ) – which Robbe-Grillet wrote , and for which he even garnered an Oscar nomination – to re-acquaint myself with , and that is sure to be an infinitely more rewarding experience . . .
FIRST MAN INTO SPACE ( Robert Day , 1959 )	Lame rip-off of THE QUATERMASS XPERIMENT ( 1955 ) : the first half is deadly dull , even dreary - but the latter stages improve considerably with the scenes involving the rampaging ' monster ' . In the accompanying featurette ( a rather dry affair at a mere 9 minutes , when compared to the ones created for the other titles in Criterion's " Monsters & Madmen " set ) , director Day - who admits to not being a fan of the sci-fi genre - tries to justify the film's shortcomings by saying that he had a zero-budget to work with ( where all the outer space scenes were composed of stock footage ! ) . . . and I'd have been inclined to be more lenient with the film had I not recently watched CALTIKI , THE IMMORTAL MONSTER ( 1959 ) - a similar ( and similarly threadbare ) but far more stylish venture from Italy ! Bill Edwards as the cocky but unlucky astronaut - obsessed with achieving the titular feat - is positively boring at first , but he eventually manages to garner audience sympathy when his physical features are deformed and the character develops a taste for blood ! Marshall Thompson as his commanding officer and elder brother is O . K . as a leaner Glenn Ford type ; he had previously starred in FIEND WITHOUT A FACE ( 1958 ) , another ( and more successful ) Richard Gordon-produced sci-fi which , incidentally , is also available on DVD through Criterion . Italian starlet Marla Landi , struggling with the English language , makes for an inadequate female lead ; even her input in the featurette proves to be of little lasting value ! The Audio Commentary is yet another enjoyable Tom Weaver / Richard Gordon track where , among many things , the fact that FIRST MAN INTO SPACE was intended as a double-feature with CORRIDORS OF BLOOD ( 1958 ) is brought up - but it was eventually put out as a standalone release , so as to exploit the topical news value of the current space race ; it's also mentioned that the monster dialogue was actually dubbed by Bonar Colleano ( who , tragically , died in a traffic accident prior to the film's release ! ) . Weaver even recalls a couple of anecdotes from the time when he was involved in the production of the DVD featurette shot by , of all people , ex-cult-ish film-maker Norman J . Warren : Landi , who by then had become a lady of title , was still ready to help out in carrying the equipment necessary to film the interview down several flights of stairs ! ; Edwards was supposed to have contributed to the featurette but , once in London , he proved reluctant to co-operate with Weaver - eventually , the latter learned that the actor had been recently diagnosed with cancer and , in fact , he died in 2002 !
FANNY HILL { R-Rated Version } ( Gerry O'Hara , 1983 )	When I chanced upon FANNY HILL at the local DVD rental shop , I only had a vague notion of either this version existing or of what the " classic " novel was about ? but since American sexploitation maverick Russ Meyer had made it into an intriguing movie himself back in 1964 , I figured it was a bawdy period romp and , since I had been in a costume picture state-of-mind for a while now , I decided to give it a spin . The presence of three veteran film stars ( Oliver Reed , Shelley Winters and Wilfrid Hyde-White ) was also enticing but , unsurprisingly , they are only there for marquee value : Reed's almost incoherent Popeye-ish accent is simply embarrassing , likewise watching flabby madam Winters being surrounded by all that petite naked flesh ( not hers , of course , but that of her charges and their consorts ) flailing about , but it's octagenarian Hyde-White ( in his last film , no less ) who tops both of them by snuggling in bed with the title character ? who is all of 19 years of age ; I've seen Hyde-White in several of his earlier films and I'm positive he never performed a love scene in any of them ! Indeed , it's gorgeous leading lady Lisa Foster ? who , thankfully , indulges in much full-frontal nudity by shedding her clothing completely at every possible opportunity ? which , even in the heavily-censored variant I've watched , makes this consistently raunchy period piece tolerable ; it's a pity that she didn't get much ahead in her acting career as one would certainly have liked to see even more of her . Interestingly enough , she later switched to doing animation work and was also involved in the digital restoration of Walt Disney's SNOW WHITE AND THE SEVEN DWARFS ( 1937 ) ! The orphaned innocent Fanny Hill soon falls in with some ladies of ill-repute as she reaches London to better her prospects , and is immediately instructed in what is expected of her by a more experienced companion Phoebe ( Maria Harper ) by jumping into bed with her , and later spying on their fellow co-workers in action through hidden holes in the wall BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) - style ! In fact , the film's plot line is very similar to that of Jess Franco's MARQUIS DE SADE'S JUSTINE ( 1968 ) and it's small wonder that the producer of that one , Harry Alan Towers , is also behind this production but , while I'd say FANNY HILL is a more agreeable picture , ultimately it's just too blandly made to stick in one's mind for much longer after it's finished .
FEAR CITY ( Abel Ferrara , 1984 )	This early flick from Abel Ferrara piles on the sleaze as it deals with a group of strippers being hounded by an unknown night-time assailant ; from a surprisingly good cast for such cheap exploitation fare , Melanie Griffith scores best as the most popular stripper around , who also happens to be her moody boss ( Tom Berenger ) ' s ex , indulges in a lesbian relationship on the side ( with fellow stripper Rae Dawn Chong ) and turns into a full-blown junkie when the latter dies at the hands of our good friend , the serial killer . Nice clean family fare , then , right ? While the film remains watchable throughout and even has a handful of amusing sequences ( most notably when , having been mistaken for the killer , the wrong guy gets beaten up in the kitchen of one of these clubs ) and performances ( in particular , Michael V . Gazzo as an irascible strip-joint owner ) , it is seriously damaged by a frankly dull hero ( or rather anti-hero , since we're basically talking about an ex-boxer-turned-pimp here ) and a very silly villain ( a karate expert / fitness freak / budding writer ) . Billy Dee Williams also stars as an irate cop disgusted by all the squalor around him and Rossano Brazzi turns up for a free plate of pasta as the pre-requisite " respectable " mobster overseeing NYC's underworld . For the record , the film was originally bankrolled by Twentieth-Century Fox but they eventually sold the property to an independent company in view of its objectionable content and a cleaned-up , padded-out version eventually made the rounds on US TV and European videos ; also , the actor playing the serial killer remains uncredited to the end , just as the killer's name is never known throughout the film .
THE BABY ( Ted Post , 1973 )	I had noticed this one in the " Drama " section of my local DVD outlet some time ago , but I decided to look it up this week and discovered that it's considered something of a cult item , and a sick one at that - so I just had to go out and rent it sooner rather than later ! Well , as it turned out , it's got one of the silliest premises ever - a full-grown man with the mind of an infant is jealously guarded by his immediate family ( mother and two ' normal ' sisters ) , until a female social-worker ( played by Anjanette Comer ) takes a special interest in the baby and determines to ' cure ' him ! ! The sight of a man in diapers emitting baby-ish sounds - obviously , and unconvincingly , dubbed on the soundtrack by a genuine toddler - is enough to give anyone convulsions of laughter but this is augmented further by the jealous fits of rage displayed by the gorgon-like matriarch ( with a scary wig to match ! ) played in the grand manner of a Joan Crawford ( indeed , the film can be considered a late addition to the " Baby Jane " - type of horror films which proliferated in the 60s ) by raspy-voiced Ruth Roman who viciously whips a baby-sitter caught breast-feeding her precious ' child ' ( unbeknownst that one of her own daughters has a tendency to ' sleep ' with him ) ! ! Its open-matte transfer and soft look give THE BABY the flat atmosphere of a TV movie , while the plot is too superficially developed to have any lasting effect ; what's more , its 70s attitudes date the film no end ( particularly a hilarious party sequence , held by the child's family to celebrate his birthday , featuring a lot of bad hairdos and even worse dancing ) ! The twist at the end - which sends the film briefly ( and very mildly ) into ' slasher ' territory - is clever enough under the circumstances but , at the same time , it can be seen as just another bizarre idea in a film that is so preposterous that it has to be seen to be believed !
THE KILLER NUN ( Giulio Berruti , 1978 )	I first became aware of this via the Blue Underground DVD , though I was not intrigued enough by the online reviews to acquire it ; however , coming my way recently while being in a " Nunsploitation " frame-of-mind , I could not very well let the opportunity pass me by ( in hindsight , the English dubbing is atrocious ? even if the print reverted for a couple of brief scenes to the original Italian language ) . I have never been a fan of voluptuous Anita Ekberg and watching her as a demented , dope-addicted and sex-starved nun promised non-stop camp ; with this in mind , obscure director Berruti lent the proceedings a matching deliriousness ? but , alas , the end result is considerably less than the sum of its parts . The rest of the cast is interesting but , apart from Paola Morra ? who , perhaps not to give the game away too early , effectively underplays her role as Ekberg's devoted ' room-mate ' ( incidentally , she would don the habit again that same year for Walerian Borowczyk's BEHIND CONVENT WALLS ) , clearly operating below-par : Joe Dallessandro ( completely out of his element as a young doctor whom Morra effortlessly manages to keep in check at the climax ? if you get my drift ) , Alida Valli ( literally phoning in her performance as the Mother Superior ) , Lou Castel ( as a nosy crippled patient ) and Massimo Serato ( as the irascible elder doctor who , however , continually cuts Ekberg's clumsiness some slack because she was the most valuable assistant he ever had ! ) . Mildly interesting is the fact that THE KILLER NUN is book-ended by two confessional scenes ( the second of which abruptly terminates the film without a proper resolution ! ) in which each of the protagonists spit out their hatred of the male species ; for what it is worth , though clearly unbalanced and given to foul-mouthed outbursts , Ekberg is not the homicidal sister of the title but a victim of circumstance and rejected affection . Noted for its blending the " Nunsploitation " genre with the typical Giallo formula , these elements ought in fact to have made for a doubly enticing proposition ; yet the two styles never properly jell , so that the film is too often ludicrous as opposed to gripping ( much less scathing ) . In its favor , we do get Alessandro Alessandroni's score ? which has an agreeable ' hard rock ' vibe to it particularly redolent of Led Zeppelin's music ! Unsurprisingly , the film is most memorable when it goes over-the-top ? such as the irate Ekberg crushing an old patient's dentures under her feet ( with the latter expiring soon after ! ) , all the murder set-pieces but especially the one where a nurse has needles painfully stuck in her face ( years before Takashi Miike ! ) , and its two risible sex scenes ( an old wheelchair-bound patient being serviced out in the rain by a young nurse and Ekberg herself picking up a man at a café and then making love in the corridor of his apartment-building ) .
THE SWARM { Extended Version } ( Irwin Allen , 1978 )	This one is often often considered , along with WHEN TIME RAN OUT . . . ( 1980 ) , as Irwin Allen's nadir - not to mention one of the all-time worst films ! Michael Caine himself said it's the worst film he's ever been in ( contradicting his apparent enthusiasm shown in the accompanying promo ) - although he must have clearly forgotten THE ISLAND ( 1980 ) . . . Given the impeccable credentials , it seems that I keep giving it a chance - since this here was already my third viewing ( albeit the first via the extended version ) . It was also one of several ' attacking insects / small animals ' movies in the seventies - FROGS ( 1972 ) , PHASE IV ( 1974 ) , SQUIRM ( 1976 ) , KINGDOM OF THE SPIDERS ( 1977 ) , EMPIRE OF THE ANTS ( 1977 ) , etc . ; other semi-notable bee movies are THE DEADLY BEES ( 1966 ) and THE SAVAGE BEES ( 1976 ; made for TV ) . They certainly spared no expenses where the cast was concerned : Michael Caine hams it up as a constantly fuming entomologist ; ditto for Richard Widmark's general ( who , at least , has the sense to not take it seriously ) ; Richard Chamberlain has a similar role to the one he played in THE TOWERING INFERNO ( 1974 ) ; Jose ' Ferrer turns up for a thankless one-minute cameo , whereas Cameron Mitchell appears unbilled . While it was nice to see all those Hollywood old-timers , the three-way romance between Fred MacMurray , Olivia DeHavilland and Ben Johnson was embarrassingly corny ! Incredibly , some 40 minutes were salvaged from the cutting-room floor to make up this inflated Extended Version - but the film seriously outstays its welcome in the second half , as it lumbers its way toward a ' philosophical ' conclusion . Apparently , several incidents in the film are ' inspired ' by THE KILLER SHREWS ( 1959 ) - but also THEM ! ( 1954 ) , especially the huge bug every victim kept seeing ( which is shown so often that it eventually becomes risible rather than scary ) . Even in spite of its great length , there are still a couple of blatant plot holes : Caine , Katharine Ross and Patty Duke Astin get locked inside a freezer during an attack on the town by the killer bees but we never learn how they manage to get out ; likewise , we're not told how the boy ( in whom Caine and Ross take a special interest all through the picture ) got ' sick ' again , a ' relapse ' he actually doesn't survive ! Ultimately , it's not the unmitigated disaster most people say it is - but the dialogue is so preposterous as to be unintentionally funny ( my favorite being Henry Fonda telling Caine that the raunchiest book he ever read was one the latter had written about the mating habits of the Queen Bee ! ) and the theme itself simply too far-fetched ( despite all the earnest sermonizing and the film's ecological stance ) ! INSIDE ' THE SWARM ' ( Andrew J . Kuehn , 1978 ; ) , included on the DVD , is a fluffy TV featurette made during production of THE SWARM : it ' s no great shakes and is mainly of interest for showing Irwin Allen at work during the 1970s ' " Disaster Movie " heyday . . . when the all-star cast are not trying to convince us that the film's earnest warning - that a catastrophic bee attack upon the whole of humanity is imminent - should not be taken lightly and we are therefore instructed to take every precautionary measure necessary ( the first being , I assume , to go watch the film at your nearest local theater ) !
The Merry Mutineers ( N / A , 1936 )	Archaic swashbuckler spoof in cartoon form which , for no particular reason , includes several Hollywood caricatures . Two kids ‘battle’ their toy ships in a pool ; we then go into the ‘clash’ proper : the crew of both vessels are made up of film-stars of the era , from dramatic actors such as Wallace Beery and Charles Laughton ( who had just appeared in classic examples of the genre – TREASURE ISLAND [ 1934 ] and MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY [ 1935 ] respectively ) to comedians including Laurel & Hardy , The Marx Bros . , The Three Stooges and Jimmy Durante . Of course , at a mere seven minutes , it’s certainly harmless – but there’s very little genuine invention on display . . . especially since the comics are there mainly to individually engage in the familiar but corny ‘sailor dance’ routine !
The Transformers : The Movie ( Nelson Shin , 1986 )	I used to watched the animated TV series ( from which this was spawned ) on Italian TV as a kid , whereas the film itself was shown as a Friday matinée at my secondary school ! Naturally , I rented this in anticipation of the recent Michael Bay live-action ( and big-budget ) version . . . but I still haven’t caught up with that one ! All in all , the ' original ' is generally watchable but also childish and dull : I have to say , however , that the accompanying rock score is pathetic ( and dates it most of all ) ; it was a mistake , too , to kill off the two leading figures from the TV series early on – so that we’re left no one to identify with ! A plethora of name actors – Scatman Crothers , Eric Idle , Leonard Nimoy , Clive Revill , Robert Stack , Lionel Stander and ( most notoriously perhaps ) Orson Welles – provide voices for the various characters . . . but all singularly fail to breathe life into them , mainly because the script is so muddled and the whole enterprise incredibly slipshod .
TROLL ( John Carl Buechler , 1986 )	Among other things the 1980s was a decade of fairy-tale movies teeming with cutesy puppets standing in for monstrous creatures – THE DARK CRYSTAL ( 1982 ) , LABYRINTH ( 1986 ) , etc . Then in 1984 came the Joe Dante-Steven Spielberg modern-day concoction GREMLINS – whose irresistibly anarchic protagonists turned a gory children’s horror comic into a box office champ . Needless to say , cheap imitators started to raise their ugly head almost immediately – GHOULIES ( 1985 ; which I’ll be revisiting presently ) , CRITTERS ( 1986 ) and , obviously , the film under review which brought medieval forest creatures into present day U . S . suburbia – although , curiously enough , the indoor sequences were shot in an Italian studio ! Directed by a make-up artist , one can hardly expect in-depth character studies here but what we do get – a typically eccentric turn from Michael Moriarty ( energetically dancing around his living room to a revamp of Eddie Cochran’s " Summertime Blues " ) ; musician - turned - actor - turned - politician Sonny Bono as a lifelong bachelor / would-be chick magnet ( clearly modeled on Dudley Moore’s character in FOUL PLAY [ 1978 ] ; Hollywood veteran June Lockhart ( of SHE-WOLF OF London [ 1946 ] notoriety ) as another tenant in the condominium which turns out to be the incarnation of the witch now hunting down the troll , who used to be her betrothed in human form ( ! ) ; Jenny Beck as Moriarty’s little daughter who is transformed into a vengeful creep screaming for " Ratburgers ! " when overtaken by the spirit of the troll and who , consequently , likes to beat the crap out of horror film-buff older brother ; and diminutive Phil Fondocaro , a dwarf who , in mistaking him for an elf , the troll takes an immediate liking to – are , surprisingly enough , not unentertaining company for some 80-odd minutes or so . The troll is immediately found by the girl in the basement of the apartment house and is soon gruesomely turning the other tenants into shrubbery and many another troll who , alarmingly , have a penchant for bursting into bouts of communal harmonic singing which provokes hysterics in the viewer more than anything else . For what it’s worth , Lockhart keeps a live , friendly mushroom companion by her side – in clear imitation of GREMLINS’ amiable Gizmo – and the film itself ( which was followed by a sequel in 1990 ) is being remade as we speak . P . S . Could it be just sheer coincidence that Moriarty’s character in the film is named Harry Potter ( ! ) and that he is ( albeit unsuspectingly ) surrounded by hordes of trolls and wizards ? For the record , I haven’t read any of J . K . Rowling's phenomenally successful books or watched any of their cinematic adaptations – but the similarity seemed too conspicuous to go by unmentioned .
ACE HIGH ( Giuseppe Colizzi , 1968 )	One can see the influence of Sergio Leone writ large all over this large-scale Spaghetti Western ( and not just in the casting of Eli Wallach from THE GOOD , THE BAD AND THE UGLY [ 1966 ] ) – but Colizzi doesn’t in any way show a comparable talent ! The director also receives sole writing credit , which rather explains the film’s relentless self-indulgence – padding a wafer-thin plot with lame attempts at characterization and dreary passages of local color ! The film happens to be the second teaming of popular Italian brawling duo Terence Hill and Bud Spencer ( the first – GOD FORGIVES . . . I DON’T [ 1967 ] – was actually a prequel to this ! ) but Hill’s atypical glum countenance robs the film of some much-needed charisma . Incidentally , neither title – American ( which places an emphasis on the gambling subplot which comes into play only during the last third ) or original , which roughly translates to FOUR GUNMEN OF AVE MARIA – is really satisfactory . . . but , then , neither is the film itself : one isn’t bothered by the sluggish pacing and extreme length of Leone’s Spaghetti Westerns , but that certainly can’t be said here ! Mind you , being a vintage outing , it’s moderately watchable and , at least , the print ( via the Paramount DVD – how they suddenly felt the urge to release this I’ll never know ! ) was very nice . . . in contrast to its follow-up , BOOT HILL ( 1969 ) , which I recently viewed by way of a horridly panned-and-scanned Public Domain edition . Anyway , the plot involves " lice-infected jailbird " Wallach being sprung from jail by a corrupt banker to retrieve a sum of money ‘stolen’ from him by Hill and Spencer ; there follows an endless series of chases and double-crosses – with occasional interjections from black tightrope-walker Brock Peters and , it goes without saying , numerous stops for the duo’s trademark brawling antics . Eventually , the four join forces to clean up the gambling-house owned by Wallach’s long-time enemy ( and former partner ) Kevin McCarthy : this is an elaborate and mildly suspenseful sequence – climaxed by a shoot-out between the gang and McCarthy and his ( anonymous-looking ) henchmen on either side of the gambling table during a particularly busy night . The soundtrack is , once again , the handiwork of Carlo Rustichelli – but , while serving its purpose , isn’t especially remarkable within the impressive pantheon of Spaghetti Western scores . . .
SUKIYAKI WESTERN DJANGO ( Takashi Miike , 2007 )	This is further proof that cult Japanese director Takashi Miike is not for me : as can be deduced from the title , the film is a pseudo-homage to the Italian Spaghetti Westerns ( though Django has almost nothing to do with it ! ) . In fact , the plot is yet another rehash of Japanese master Akira Kurosawa's samurai classic YOJIMBO ( 1961 ) , which had actually led to Sergio Leone kick-starting the Spaghetti Western subgenre with that film's first remake A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS ( 1964 ) ! Anyway , for Miike , this is typically violent fare ? even more pointless than usual and all rather amateurishly assembled ; besides , having the actors speak English results in unintentional laughter more than anything else ( though Quentin Tarantino's absurd cameo is no less embarrassing : incidentally , I may well have been witness to the genesis of the picture back when these two mavericks ' butted heads ' at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ! ) . Needless to say , the squalid atmosphere peculiar to European Westerns is largely missing here ? but , then , neither does the film extract particular benefit from its own country's heritage ! With characterization tending towards mere posture ( when it is not insipid ) , we are left with a clutch of stylized-but-hollow action sequences to grab the attention ? all of which , ultimately , leaves a bad taste in the mouth . Perhaps mercifully , the version I watched is the shorter ( by 23 minutes ) International Cut .
El Aguila Negra Contra Los Enmascarados De La Muerte ( Ramon Peon Garcia , 1958 )	This sequel to EL AGUILA NEGRA ( 1954 ) is actually even harder to watch than its predecessor , adding as it does two completely resistible henpecked comic sidekicks – one of whom I’ve seen in Bunuel’s DAUGHTER OF DECEIT ( 1951 ) and ILLUSION TRAVELS BY STREETCAR ( 1954 ) ! – and their utterly obnoxious ( read ugly ) fiancées , clueless villains who bump each other off more frequently than they attempt on the hero’s life ( ! ) , and more and more songs ! ! In this instance , the proceedings are filmed in color which , while it does not lessen the movie’s weaknesses or the plot’s predictability , makes the whole just about bearable for one viewing . For what it’s worth , there are a handful more AGUILA NEGRA films out there but I don’t see myself rushing to seek them out anytime soon . . .
EL AGUILA NEGRA ( Ramon Peon Garcia , 1954 )	Although I had long noticed this exotic Mexican double-feature at the local DVD rental shop , I was reminded of it while reading a lengthy essay mentioning masked protagonists in Mexican genre movies in one of the several Mexi-horror DVDs I watched lately . As it turned out , this budget disc presented the films in their original Spanish language only ( without the benefit of subtitles ) but the plot was pretty basic and easy to follow – just another variation on the Zorro theme – and the movie just about watchable and definitely forgettable . What we do have here which ( for better of worse ) makes this one stand from the crowd , is the surfeit of lusty songs belted out by all and sundry during the course of the film . . . including our eponymous hero and his dancing steed !
KISSIN’ COUSINS ( Gene Nelson , 1964 )	It should come as no surprise to anyone that , before now , I was only familiar with the two best-regarded of Elvis Presley’s films , namely JAILHOUSE ROCK ( 1957 ) and FLAMING STAR ( 1960 ) . However , since this year marks the 30th anniversary of his death , I made it a point to watch as many of his movies I could lay my hands on . . . a sort of " it’s now or never " type of situation , if you will ! Actually , I had caught the beginning of this one on local TV several years ago , where it was shown as part of a mini Elvis retrospective . The " citizens vs . missile-base " plot line here is basically the rural version of Leo McCarey’s RALLY ‘ROUND THE FLAG , BOYS ! ( 1958 ) but , as it turns out , the hillbilly antics get tiresome pretty quickly – especially whenever the man-chasing Kittyhawks turn up , which is too often for my tastes ! The best gag , then , is when Captain Jack Albertson suddenly leaves the farmers’ dinner table – after " Ma " Glenda Farrell describes the stomach-turning contents of the " delicious " meal he has just partaken of , and " Pappy " Arthur O’Connell asks his soldier kin Elvis if something has come up , to which the latter matter-of-factly quips , " Not yet , but I think it might " ! For what it’s worth , the songs are variable and unmemorable ( except , perhaps , for the title tune ) and even Farrell gets her own maudlin number ! This film is perhaps best-known for offering a dual role for The King , one of whom is a brown-haired layabout , but this eventually leads to an unintentionally hilarious ending where the two characters share the screen doing a number , but every time one sings , the other conveniently turns his back to the camera and a longshot exposes Elvis’ double all-too-clearly !
THE WATER BABIES ( Lionel Jeffries , 1978 )	Very resistible but ultimately harmless film version of the children's literary classic which incorporates an animated portion in the style of MARY POPPINS ( 1964 ) and BEDKNOBS AND BROOMSTICKS ( 1971 ) . The human cast is very distinguished - James Mason , Billie Whitelaw , David Tomlinson , Joan Greenwood , Bernard Cribbins - but their roles range from the miscast ( a 69 year-old Mason as a thieving chimney-sweep ! ) to the inconsequential ( Greenwood as a befuddled aristocrat ) to the bizarre ( Whitelaw plays several ' exotic ' characters - including a circus performer , an old hag , a maid and a fairy - for no apparent reason ) . The animated segment of the film , handled by a group of East-European animators , is hardly inspired but mildly enjoyable in itself and , as usual , with this type of thing , there is an assortment of songs one has to put up with , one of which in particular is reprised far too often for its own good . The film was directed by noted character actor Jeffries who had previously directed ( far more successfully ) other children's films namely THE RAILWAY CHILDREN ( 1970 ) and THE AMAZING MR . BLUNDEN ( 1972 ; which I've yet to watch myself but which was released some time ago on R2 DVD by Anchor Bay UK ) .
WARLORDS OF ATLANTIS ( Kevin Connor , 1978 )	This was the fourth - and last - fantasy adventure for the actor-director team of Doug McClure and Kevin Connor after THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT ( 1974 ; undeniably the best of the bunch ) , AT THE EARTH'S CORE ( 1976 ) and THE PEOPLE THAT TIME FORGOT ( 1977 ) . The result - silly and terminally juvenile - is a disappointment : besides wasting a good cast ( Daniel Massey , Michael Gothard and Cyd Charisse ) , the sci-fi trappings of the plot are ill-suited to the material ; the hokey monster effects , then , seal the fate of this low-budget venture . In fact , the location shooting ( in Malta , no less , and the smaller neighboring island of Gozo ) is among the film's few assets !
THE MAN WHO LAUGHS ( Sergio Corbucci , 1966 )	Over the past couple of years , the English-dubbed version of this Italian-French co-production has been shown continuously on TCM UK . However , my unconditional love for Paul Leni's 1928 Silent classic ( once one of my top cinematic holy grails ) has always kept me away , perhaps not wishing to sully my fond memories of it . Still , now that sufficient time has elapsed and coming hot on the heels of a long list of similar Italian " sword and sandal " epics I've watched recently ( a habit which seems to be nowhere near exhaustion ! ) , I decided to give this one a go at long last . . . Well , to say that Sergio Cobrucci's remake is inferior to Leni's original would be the understatement of the year . Ever since I've seen him in Luis Bunuel's BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) , I've always liked having Jean Sorel in a film but here , inexplicably playing a dual role , he's certainly no match for Conrad Veidt's bravura performance . The make-up itself is not particularly effective either and the film-makers ' decision to take several liberties with Victor Hugo's text is a mixed blessing , too : not only has the titular character suffered a namechange ( from the lyrical Gwynplaine to the more prosaic Angelo ) but he even turns villainous ( becoming the Court's Executioner no less ) when his beloved Dea is cured of her blindness and falls for the dashing figure of a patriotic rebel played by none other than Jean Sorel himself ! ! The film's setting is also unaccountably changed from 1700s Britain to Renaissance-era Italy where the hateful Borgias - Cesare ( hammily portrayed here by Edmund Purdom ) and Lucrezia ( played by a sultry Lisa Gastoni , and the film's one undeniable bright spot ) - preside over their lands with sinful recklessness . Although Veidt was also seduced by a vampish Olga Baclanova ( who , amazingly for its time , does appear fleetingly naked in one sequence ) , unfortunately for him he wasn't allowed to indulge in any sizzling romps in the hay with her as Sorel and Gastoni do in this version . In a sense , this is also what's essentially wrong with this remake : while certainly a watchable if thoroughly routine historical melodrama , it ends up being merely a vulgarization of the sublime original with Corbucci displaying none of the visual poetry which marked Leni's masterpiece . Luckily for him , however , his luck was about to change as he immediately embarked on the film he is perhaps best-known for - the Gothic-tinged Spaghetti Western DJANGO ( 1966 ) . . .
THE ISLAND PRINCESS ( Paolo Moffo and Pietro Francisci , 1954 )	I’d never heard of this peplum before it turned up recently on late-night Italian TV ; however , with a bit of research , I realized that it was listed on the " Leonard Maltin Film Guide " . In any case , what particularly drew me to the film was the fact that it starred Marcello Mastroianni – soon to become one of Italy’s foremost leading men and international stars ; he’s appropriately dashing in the garb of the Spanish armada but , then , his distinctive voice is dubbed by someone else ( films from this country were famously shot M . O . S . ) ! Anyway , it turned out to be a very ordinary spectacle – even without taking into consideration the extremely choppy ( and muddy ) quality of the print on display : in fact , while the film’s ‘official’ running-time is given as 105 minutes , the copy I watched ran for a measly 76 ! Incidentally , the action sequences ( though little of these actually remain in the film as shown on TV ! ) are here credited to Pietro Francisci – best-known for helming the two Steve Reeves Hercules vehicles from later on in the decade which brought him stardom and cemented the popularity of the peplum genre ; for the record , a solo genre effort by Francisci – ATTILA ( 1954 ) , with Anthony Quinn in the title role – was released within days of this one ! The plot involves the Spanish conquistadores’ , ahem , conquest of the Canary Islands ; no sooner have they landed that one of the leaders of the expedition ( Mastroianni , of course ) meets and falls for a local girl ( peplum regular Silvana Pampanini ) . . . without realizing that she’s the current ruler’s daughter ! While the old man is willing to negotiate peace terms with the Spaniards , a hotheaded young warrior wants none of it and conspires with the King’s chief adviser to oust their forces from the land . To begin with , they organize an ambush of the Armada who , naturally , retaliate by burning down one of their villages ; then , the King is poisoned so that the girl assumes command – and take the rebellious warrior for a husband , since she needs a strong man by her side at such a precarious moment ! Needless to say , Pampanini has conflicting emotions about all of this : she loves Mastroianni but can’t bear the treatment of her people by the Spanish ( despite being merely the direct result of their own provocation ! ) ; eventually , she gives in to the warrior’s demands . . . but , then , thinks back on it and leaves him reeling at the altar during the wedding ceremony ! At the end , the two parties engage in open battle ( again , it’s so extensively trimmed as to be confusing and deeply unsatisfying ) – with the lovers finally re-united against an evocative backdrop of sea and sand , where the fleeing warrior had just then been cornered and dispatched .
Family Theater : I Beheld His Glory ( TV ) ( John T . Coyle , 1953 )	This pretty much presents the same familiar story as HILL NUMBER ONE ( 1951 ) , though shot in color ? so , in fact , does the following film THE POWER OF THE RESURRECTION ( 1958 ) ? but it's told from the viewpoint of a Roman officer ( George Macready ) . Curiously enough , Macready is actually not actively involved in any of the events on the way to Calvary and he catches the Christianity bug from his various conversations with the doubting Apostle Thomas ! As if that wasn't enough of a handicap to one's involvement into the whole affair , the treatment is pretty stolid overall and easily emerges as the least rewarding of the four modest films made by various evangelical groups about Christ's Passion that I watched in quick succession .
THE BROTHERS O'TOOLE ( Richard Erdman , 1973 )	Simplistically , this offbeat concoction may be described as a Western spoof but it is just too uneven to be truly successful as a comedy . This is perhaps explained by the fact that director Erdman was mostly a veteran character actor and only stepped behind the camera a handful of times . The opportunity allowed for fellow character actors to have a field-day can be , likewise , excused as it gives the proceedings a glorified home movie ambiance and does , on occasion , provide the viewers with flashes of amusement . Most prominent in the cast are TV stars John Astin ( in a dual role , no less ) and Lee Meriwether ( as the embittered wife of Astin’s bandido character ) but equally notable are Hollywood veterans Jesse White ( as the Mayor of a sleepy Western hamlet with an unpronounceable name ) , Allyn Joslyn ( as the Sheriff ) and Hans Conried ( in a very belated cameo as an oil tycoon ) ; as was to be expected , director Erdman also contrived to give himself a small but fun role as a bemused Judge . The bulk of the narrative sees cardsharp Astin being mistaken for bandido Astin and cardsharp Astin’s no-good younger brother is more often a hindrance to his pleas of innocence than anything else . The incarcerated Astin’s eventual trial , then , requires his alter ego to dress up conspicuously as an old man but this middle section of the film is also where it really drags and sags badly . The film does get back into shape ( relatively speaking ) with the appearance of Conried and , especially , the climactic foulness contest – where participants of every size and shape are awarded for their prowess in belching , spitting and cussing ( don’t ask ) – which , for better or worse , only serves to reinforce my afore-mentioned claims of the film’s inherent " home movie " quality .
BATTLE ROYALE II : REQUIEM ( Kinji Fukasaku and Kenta Fukasaku , 2003 )	I recall liking BATTLE ROYALE ( 2000 ) , finding it original and surprisingly hip for a veteran director like Kinji Fukasaku . Its success guaranteed an eventual sequel ? which came about three years later . Unfortunately , the director passed away prior to the end of shooting and the film was completed by his son Kenta . However , the result is hardly worth the effort : beginning well enough , with a busload of rebellious students kidnapped and forced at gunpoint to enroll in the second installment of the " Battle Royale " , they're later taken to the island where the survivors of the first ' game ' have taken refuge and built an army to eliminate all grown-ups . The ragged and frightened platoon starts out at 42 , but their number is decreased by more than half soon after they land . After an initial confrontation with the ' enemy ' , the two armies decide to join forces and take on their collective ' oppressor ' ! The tiresomely long film alternates between violent action sequences ? shot in the dizzying hand-held style which has , regrettably , become the norm ? speechifying , sentimentality , and a few flashbacks to the soldiers ' past lives ( including the daughter of the Takeshi Kitano character from the first film : the popular actor / director himself puts in a very brief appearance here ) . All of this makes for a confused and pretentious outing ? rendered even more ludicrous by the outrageously over-the-top performance of the actor playing the kids ' teacher .
ROMULUS AND THE SABINES ( Richard Pottier , 1961 )	Below-par peplum which , more than anything else , serves to demonstrate that Roger Moore ( playing Romulus , ruler of Rome and the son of a deity ! ) is as ill-suited to the genre as John Wayne or Alan Ladd had been ! ! Dealing with the popular legend of the Rape Of The Sabine Women - which also inspired the musical SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS ( 1954 ) - the film is strictly a potboiler , with colorful scenery but little real action and obligatory hit-or-miss comedy relief provided by Moore's pint-sized , myopic spokesman . Mylene Demongeot - who seemed to have been a fixture with this type of film - is , as ever , a most lovely heroine ( sparring for Moore's attentions with the duplicitous Scilla Gabel , who eventually expires in an incredible manner by way of a deflected arrow ) ; meanwhile , Giorgia Moll and Marino Mase ' fill in for the secondary romantic interest - while the thing is given some measure of dignity by the presence of Folco Lulli , playing the jovial Sabine king , and cameos ( in the film's most interesting scene ) by Jean Marais and Rosanna Schiaffino as Roman Gods , respectively Mars and Venus , who appear before the sleeping Romulus - pretty much in the style of the Tom & Jerry cartoons ! - to ' influence ' his thoughts ( i . e . whether to pursue the path to war or love ) . While not quite as bad as the similar ( and similarly-titled ) COLOSSUS AND THE AMAZON QUEEN ( 1960 ) , the best film to incorporate the Battle Of The Sexes into the peplum genre remains AMAZONS OF ROME ( 1961 ; co-directed by Vittorio Cottafavi ) .
HALLOWEEN ( Rob Zombie , 2007 )	Even if I was pleasantly surprised by the two previous Rob Zombie horror efforts , I wasn't particularly looking forward to this rehash of a recognized classic ; has any of the recent spate of such remakes been really any good ( for the record , I have now watched only three of these revamps ) ? Anyway , I agree with others who have already commented about the film that the decision to go a different route ( at least during its first and last thirds ) was commendable if not exactly successful ; however , it really falters when lamely mimicking Carpenter's original ( such as Michael Myers ' pursuit of Laurie Strode in the street , her best pal's constant uttering of " Totally " and the latter ? and her boyfriend's ? death , which are an exact replica of the relevant scenes from the 1978 version ) . One of the worst things about the remake , then , is that the teens here are extremely annoying ? including Laurie herself ? so that we never truly care about their fate ! The opening section ? detailing Michael's childhood ? is watchable not so much for what it tells us about the character but rather for the creepy screen presence of the boy playing him , and the equally notable contribution of his disillusioned mother ( Sheri Moon Zombie , the writer / director's stunning wife ) valiantly trying to make ends meet in a hopeless environment . William Forsythe as Michael's foul-mouthed wastrel of a stepfather is amusing at first , but is such a clichéd characterization that it soon becomes just as boring as anyone else ! The TV clips from THE THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD ( 1951 ; whose 2-Disc SE on R2 I have just acquired , incidentally ) during this section , however , are a neat tribute to John Carpenter's own idol , Howard Hawks . I also share other HTF members ' view that the frequent cropping-up of familiar faces ? it's great , however , that many of them were around during the 1970s ? was more of a distraction than anything else : I was particularly surprised by the presence of Richard Lynch and Mickey Dolenz ( of " The Monkees " ) . Udo Kier's cameo was silly and , despite his not inconsiderable screen-time , Brad Dourif isn't given anything especially interesting to do ( other than diss psychiatrist Malcolm McDowell's insistence that Michael Myers is the devil incarnate , that is , until he happens upon the slashed body of his own daughter , after which he all but disappears ) . Also on hand , for one brief bit , is SPIDER BABY ( 1964 ) ' s Sid Haig ? already a regular of Zombie's work ; Ken Foree , however , is good for a few chuckles as the badass trucker who falls foul of Myers in a grimy rest-room ; Danny Trejo's compassionate asylum attendant ( who has looked after Michael during his tenure at Smith's Grove ) was a mistake , though , since his eventual fate at the hands of his favorite charge is too cruel for no reason at all . Without any sympathy aroused for either victim or deranged perpetrator , what's the point of watching ? other than as a voyeuristic exercise in gratuitous sadism , which is far less stylishly handled than in the original anyway ? Still , McDowell himself isn't bad ? and he must have cherished the opportunity of playing such an established character , even if he was to follow in the footsteps of Donald Pleasence ( who had made Dr . Sam Loomis his own in the franchise which sprung from the original ) ; his demise at the end , though , means that it will be just a one-off for the actor . As for Myers himself , I couldn't quite reconcile his hulking and emotionless ' killing machine ' persona with the troubled kid seen in the prologue ; after going the extra mile to beef up his backstory ? a device which , ultimately , works against the film because it effectively destroys the character's prior " Boogeyman " mystique ! ? Zombie then still lazily relies on his imposing physique and featureless mask for menacing effect ( the original lean Michael cuts a much creepier and a potentially more dangerous figure in my view ) . Which brings us to the recycled " Halloween " theme ( still chillingly effective , but should perhaps have been used more sparingly throughout ) and the flaccid new ending , which opts for a pervasive sensation of nihilism a ' la THE Texas CHAIN SAW MASSACRE ( 1974 ) ? an approach which worked in a backwoods environment , but seems misplaced within the context of a small American town !
Hammer House Of Horror : The Two Faces Of Evil ( Alan Gibson , 1980 ) ( TV )	Rather unpleasant entry in the series , which also seems confused as to what it wants to be : starting off with a maniacal figure in fisherman attire stalking a vacationing family , he's later revealed to be a doppelganger for the husband ( whom he has replaced ) ? eventually , it transpires that a widespread INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS ( 1956 ) - like takeover plot is in effect ! While there is a reasonable amount of suspense ( and a palpable sense of dread ) throughout , the episode is marred by the irritating central performances of Anna Calder-Marshall ( frumpy-looking and resorting too often to histrionics ) and Gary Raymond ( especially unconvincing when attempting to portray the evil side of his character ? the fact that he looks quite a bit like Rowan Atkinson's Mr . Bean at times certainly doesn't help any in this respect ! ) .
DEAD HEAT ON A MERRY-GO-ROUND ( Bernard Girard , 1966 )	To call this would-be ‘with it’ caper comedy muddled is a gross understatement – indeed , Bernard Girard the director should have fired Bernard Girard the writer because an admittedly ingenious premise has only resulted in a relentlessly dull movie ! Hero James Coburn , with a permanent grin on his face , is involved in so many schemes on his way to rob Los Angeles’ LAX airport ( which brought back memories of my stay in the city three years ago , extending to the similarity of hotel interiors ) : in fact , he dupes a variety of people during the course of the narrative – including lovely leading lady Camilla Sparv ( already ex-Mrs . Robert Evans by the time the film was released and who won a Golden Globe for Best Newcomer , over Candice Bergen and Lynn Redgrave [ ! ] , even if her career seemed to wither soon after ) ; consequently , it’s all needlessly ( indeed painfully ) stretched to 107 minutes ! To add to the confusion ( not to say dejection ) , we get a dreary subplot revolving around the visit of a Russian official to the United States and the elaborate ( though not always successful ) security measures American agencies – led by Robert Webber and assisted by an impossibly youthful Todd Armstrong ( from the Ray Harryhausen opus JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS [ 1963 ] ! ) – have to undertake for this purpose . As with many films of its ilk from this ‘anything goes’ era , the title is a reference to nothing in particular – to be sure , it surfaces in the plot as the name of a book ostensibly written by Coburn ( one of the innumerable aliases he hides behind ) ; again , typically , the criminals ( also including Aldo Ray in an underwritten part ) are allowed to get away with it . . . though there’s a nice ironic final twist when the author – who has unaccountably gone ‘missing’ but , apparently , truly existed – is found to have left his vast fortune to bewildered ‘bride’ Sparv ! This was my third effort from its little-known director in a relatively brief period of time – the first was intriguing but invincibly low-key , THE MIND SNATCHERS ( 1972 ) , the second a Godawful ( and barely-released ) Western spoof called GONE WITH THE WEST ( 1975 ) ; the " Leonard Maltin Film Guide " , then , awards DEAD HEAT ON A MERRY-GO-ROUND a very respectable – hence , it ranks as yet another disappointment ! Incidentally , the star made innumerable films in this vein during the 1960s and 1970s – where his narcissistic and arrogant personality comes off as overbearing and , therefore , alienating : up next , in fact , is DUFFY ( 1968 ) which , despite rating an even lower , it’s one I’d long been curious about in view of its rather interesting credentials . . .
LIPSTICK ( Lamont Johnson , 1976 )	Manipulative drama about a glamorous model ( Margaux Hemingway ) who is raped by a geeky but unbalanced musician ( Chris Sarandon ) – to whom she had been introduced by her younger sister ( played by real-life sibling Mariel ) , whose music teacher he is . While the central courtroom action holds the attention – thanks largely to a commanding performance by Anne Bancroft as Hemingway’s lawyer – the film is too often merely glossy , but also dramatically unconvincing : the jury ostensibly takes the musician’s side because a ) the girl invited assault due to the sensuous nature of her profession and b ) she was offering no resistance to her presumed aggressor when her sister arrived at the apartment and inadvertently saw the couple in bed together . What the f ? ! ; she was clearly tied up – what resistance could she realistically offer ? The second half of the film – involving Sarandon’s rape of the sister , which curiously anticipates IRREVERSIBLE ( 2002 ) by occurring in a tunnel – is rather contrived : Mariel’s character should have known better than to trust Sarandon after what he did to her sister , but Margaux herself foolishly reprises the line of work which had indirectly led to her humiliating experience almost immediately ! The climax – in which Sarandon gets his just desserts , with Margaux turning suddenly into a fearless and resourceful vigilante – is , however , a crowd-pleaser in the style of DEATH WISH ( 1974 ) ; incidentally , ubiquitous Italian movie mogul Dino De Laurentiis was behind both films . It’s worth noting how the two Hemingway sisters’ lives took wildly different turns ( this was the film debut of both ) : Margaux’s career never took off ( despite her undeniable good looks and commendable participation here ) – while Mariel would soon receive an Oscar nomination for Woody Allen’s MANHATTAN ( 1979 ) and , interestingly , would herself play a glamorous victim of raging violence when essaying the role of real-life " Playboy " centerfold Dorothy Stratten in Bob Fosse’s STAR 80 ( 1983 ) . With the added pressure of a couple of failed marriages , Margaux took refuge in alcohol and would eventually die of a drug overdose in 1996 ; chillingly , the Hemingway family had a history of suicides – notably the sisters’ grandfather , celebrated author Ernest , who died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound in 1961 .
WOLFBLOOD : A TALE OF THE FOREST ( Bruce Mitchell and George Chesebro , 1925 )	Despite the title , this isn't a horror film at all ; the werewolf elements are only introduced three-quarters of the way in ? which are , in any case , merely suggested through the lead character's hallucinations ? but these obviously constitute the film's highlight ( though rugged , pasty-faced star and co-director Chesebro isn't exactly Lon Chaney Jr . ) ; still , the transformation-by-transfusion is an interesting concept , one which I don't think has been done in subsequent films . However , while the forest locations are certainly nice , the unexciting main narrative involving rival logging companies and the unavoidable love triangle really drown the interest ; a subplot involves a villainous moonshiner who's a dead ringer for Walter Brennan ? and , for the record , there's even an interminable " Jazz Age " party sequence towards the beginning ! The soundtrack accompanying the print I watched features a classical piece which was also used ? to much greater effect ? in Luis Bunuel's L'AGE D'OR ( 1930 ) .
PIRATES OF TORTUGA ( Robert D . Webb , 1961 )	One of the myriad cheapies churned out by independent film producers ( here Sam Katzman ) under the aegis of a major Hollywood studio ( 20th Century Fox ) and which revolves around the exploits of a notorious pirate figure ( Sir Henry Morgan ) . Despite being fully aware of the film’s non-reputation even among others of its type , I was still taken in by the relatively decent cast ( Robert Stephens , Leticia Roman and John Richardson ) and the promise of colorful entertainment ( brought on by my recent spate of similar superior outings ) . Unfortunately , PIRATES OF TORTUGA falls far short of earlier movies about Morgan – THE BLACK SWAN ( 1942 ) or even the contemporaneous MORGAN , THE PIRATE ( 1961 ) – and proves to be a lackluster affair with a poverty of imagination on display that is quite dispiriting . To start with , Morgan ( an over-the-top Stephens ) himself only appears half-way through with the result that we are left largely in the company of a truly overbearing gypsy of a leading lady ( Roman ) , a listless hero ( Ken Jones ) and his puerile cronies ( Richardson and Dave King ) . Add to that the intermittent usage of action stock footage lifted from earlier Fox seafaring productions , the uncharacteristic popping up of modern slang in the dialogue and the sheer predictability of the whole venture and it’s small wonder that very little time has elapsed before the film starts to sink . . . right out of one’s memory ! For the record , director Robert D . Webb had much earlier won an Oscar as an assistant director ( in one of the few times these awards where handed out ) on IN OLD CHICAGO ( 1937 ) and had also guided Elvis Presley through his first film LOVE ME TENDER ( 1956 ) ; incidentally , I might get to check out six ( ! ) of his other directorial chores in the future : not just two notable Westerns WHITE FEATHER ( 1955 ; with Jeffrey Hunter and Robert Wagner , which I have in my DVD collection ) and THE PROUD ONES ( 1956 ; with Robert Ryan and Jeffrey Hunter again , which I intend to acquire ) but also a few more available at local DVD rental outlets : BENEATH THE 12-MILE REEF ( 1953 ; which I haven’t watched in ages ) , the aforementioned LOVE ME TENDER , THE CAPE TOWN AFFAIR ( 1967 ; a remake of Samuel Fuller’s PICKUP ON SOUTH STREET [ 1953 ] ) and THE JACKALS ( 1967 ; featuring Vincent Price and a remake of William A . Wellman’s YELLOW SKY [ 1948 ] , which I own and intend to watch presently as part of my ongoing Richard Widmark tribute ) .
BODY DOUBLE ( Brian De Palma , 1984 )	De Palma's thrillers are always worth watching for their instantly recognizable style - and even more for his myriad borrowings from the work of Alfred Hitchcock ! Here , however , he seems somewhat unsure of himself as he even turns to his own earlier films for inspiration : while the main theme of Craig Wasson as a voyeur clearly owes a debt to REAR WINDOW ( 1954 ) , his obsession over a woman comes from - what else ? - OBSESSION ( 1976 ; and , by extension , VERTIGO [ 1958 ] ) , the film-making milieu ( with the nostalgic title sequence being especially nicely done ) from BLOW OUT ( 1981 ) and the ruse of committing a murder in disguise ( in order to put the lead character - and the audience with him - off the track ) from DRESSED TO KILL ( 1980 ; and , obviously , PSYCHO [ 1960 ] ) ! Still , the mystery isn't particularly involving - though Wasson isn't bad in registering his character's curiosity and confusion , while being able to romance both the victim ( Deborah Shelton ) and her double ( Melanie Griffith ) - and , other than adding an extra element of sleaze , the porn subplot is more of a distraction than anything else ! The villain , too , is totally uninteresting which rather makes the resolution less compelling - though the excessive violence ( Shelton is pinned to the floor with a power drill ! ) , camera gymnastics and , above all , Pino Donaggio's typically wistful score certainly keep one watching . . . even if De Palma has clearly made better films !
Billy The Kid Versus Dracula ( 1966 )	Silly is the key word in BILLY THE KID VERSUS Dracula : the clash of genres could have been interesting - as Count Dracula , ostensibly originating in the middle-ages and being able to turn into a bat , would have no real problem showing up in the Old West - but this is exploitation fare pure and simple and no attempt to contrast the wildly diverse cultures is made , except from the caricatured portrayals of two superstitious immigrants . Carradine apparently is still wearing the same set of clothes he had donned for the two Universal films back in the 40s , but his performance here is far campier : it was side-splitting to see him roll his eyes till he literally became red in the face ( his put-down of an earnest and elderly doctor as a " backwoods-female-pill-slinger " is priceless , however ) ! There was very little atmosphere of any kind ; as for special effects , these were virtually non-existent ( the bat creature , in particular , is incredibly phoney-looking ) . Worst of all , the fireworks promised by the title never happen as Billy The Kid , which history painted as a vicious criminal , is here depicted as a reformed , law-abiding citizen and is even made to carry the film's icky romantic interest ! ! In short , a fun film for all the wrong reasons - and I can't say that I'm looking forward to viewing its companion piece , JESSE JAMES MEETS FRANKENSTEIN'S DAUGHTER ( 1966 ) . . .
CANNONBALL RUN II ( Hal Needham , 1984 )	As I said in my review of the original 1981 film , this is much of the same ? only slightly worse . What we get here is another impressive-looking but grossly underachieving cast list , which now also incorporates Shirley MacLaine ( who , taking a cue from Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr . ' s ruse in the first film , dresses up with her younger companion as a nun but soon ditches the habit and gets it on with star Burt Reynolds : having retained her figure at 50 , she's not afraid to display it and is made to don ultra-short skirts throughout the film's second half ! ) , Telly Savalas ( embarrassing as a flustered gangster ) , Frank Sinatra ( in a cameo as himself that amounted to his farewell to the silver screen : the competitors turn to him when organizer Jamie Farr is kidnapped along with the prize money ? after which Ol ' Blue Eyes decides to try his luck at the title as well ! ) , Ricardo Montalban ( as Farr's dad ) , Doug McClure ( as Farr's long-suffering manservant ! ) , Richard Kiel ( " Jaws " from a couple of James Bond titles , appearing incongruously as Jackie Chan's co-driver ? although one does wonder whether they turned to him after Roger Moore declined an encore ) and the dubious novelty of having a bad-mannered orang-utan driver ( which not only lock lips with Montalban [ ! ] at one point but actually wins the race ) . Of course , Dom DeLuise , Dean Martin , Sammy Davis Jr . and Jack Elam ( now detailed with Farr rather than Reynolds and DeLuise ) also return to the fold ? to say nothing of a new couple of sexy women drivers ( including " The Dukes Of Hazzard " ' s Catherine Bach ) . Incidentally , DeLuise has a second ( or third , if you count Captain Chaos ) role as a Mafia don ? obviously aping Marlon Brando from THE GODFATHER ( 1972 ) ? but which supplied the film's single funniest gag ( i . e . the dead cat ) and which I still vividly recalled from all those years ago . On the other hand , the low point would definitely have to be seeing Reynolds , DeLuise and Davis dressed up as dancing harem girls ( even if Dino's reaction to that eyesore is admittedly amusing ) .
FACTORY ( Krzysztof Kieslowski , 1970 )	Rather dull and meandering documentary revolving around the Polish situation on an industrial level at the tail-end of the 1960s : it alternates between stark images at a metallurgic foundry and a board-room meeting among the various executives involved in its management . The most interesting aspect here is the film’s expose ' of bureaucratic incompetence , with the people who should primarily safe-guard the workers’ interests pointing the finger at one another whenever they come up short of their individual targets ; one leaves with the distinct feeling that there’s little hope the obstacles can be surmounted anytime soon – and , of course , it’s the laborers who will suffer the most from such a debacle in the long run . The trouble with FACTORY , ultimately , is that this point is made ( forcefully enough ) very early into the game . . . but which it then keeps harping on for another quarter of an hour !
Lady Frankenstein ( 1971 )	Although I had previously watched this one some time ago on Italian TV , I found it to be a surprisingly tolerable potboiler this time round , buoyed by an international cast of familiar faces ( including a bemused Joseph Cotten as the Baron ) and , contrary to many another film of the Euro-Cult sub-genre , an incident-packed plot in place of lethargic pacing . The creature itself looks a bit dodgy and Cotten is a bit too old to be taken seriously as an eager scientist still dabbling in creating life-forms out of corpses ( one would have thought that he would have made himself an army of them by now and not struggling at perfecting his technique still ) but Ms . Neri does look good in and out of costume and reliable Herbert Fux probably comes off best as a lecherous grave-robber / blackmailer .
SATURN 3 ( Stanley Donen , 1980 )	I had watched this as a kid on local TV in the early 1980s ( when only black-and-white sets still existed in Malta ! ) and , even if I knew it was no great shakes , some sequences from it ( Kirk Douglas ' nude fight with Harvey Keitel and the climax , for instance ) have stayed with me ever since ! Still , having come back to it after so long , I was expecting to be greatly disappointed but actually I enjoyed it for what it is : as a sci-fi epic , it certainly brought nothing new to the table ( borrowing the plot's essential life-on-a-space-station element from SILENT RUNNING [ 1971 ] and its sex-starved robot , an appropriately menacing creation , from DEMON SEED [ 1977 ] ) but was nonetheless fairly engaging - with a stylish enough look courtesy of cinematographer Billy Williams and production designer Stuart Craig ( though Elmer Bernstein's score is curiously forgettable ) - and , thankfully , did not overstay its welcome ( running for only 88 minutes ) . Even so , the two leads - who actually ended up Razzie nominees , as did the film ! - weren't exactly inspired ( Douglas , by this time , was past his prime and , unfortunately , his stint in the sci-fi / horror genre - which also comprised HOLOCAUST 2000 [ 1977 ; the only one I've yet to catch up with , though it's been shown on Italian TV quite a few times ] , THE FURY [ 1978 ] and THE FINAL COUNTDOWN [ 1980 ] - is best forgotten ! ) but , at least , Harvey Keitel brought to it his typical intensity and intelligence - though I'm sure it's a film he'd rather forget . Speaking of which , I recall an article in the British film magazine " Empire " comparing the fortunes of Keitel and Robert De Niro over the years : in the same year Keitel appeared in SATURN 3 , De Niro reached his pinnacle with RAGING BULL , but a dozen or so years later the tables would be more or less turned . . . but that's another story . In the end , one has to wonder what Stanley Donen was thinking when he accepted such a project - but , then , his career had always been somewhat erratic ( including at least a couple more notorious false steps with the homosexual two-hander STAIRCASE [ 1969 ] and the bootlegging comedy LUCKY LADY [ 1975 ] ) .
FRIVOLOUS LOLA ( Tinto Brass , 1998 )	This was only my 3rd Brass after CALIGULA ( 1979 ) - which I watched in London - and DEADLY SWEET ( 1967 ; his best film by far , so far ) - viewed during the Italian B-movie retrospective at the 2004 Venice Film Festival . Well , frivolous is right as nothing much happens during the course of the film ; at least , though , it's lighthearted - unlike , say , Bigas Luna's BAMBOLA ( 1996 ; see review above ) - even if in a vulgar way and , given the explicit nature of its copious nudity , occasionally erotic . Still , the leading performance by non-professional ( and perennially giggly ) Anna Ammirati - whom Brass reportedly discovered , literally , by way of a car accident ! - is annoyingly one-dimensional . Like BAMBOLA , the leading lady's mother is played by a well-known actress ( i . e . known more for her physical attributes than her acting talent ) , Serena Grandi - who had earlier starred in Brass ' MIRANDA ( 1985 ) . A surprising cast member is Patrick Mower as Grandi's suave but lewd lover ( who naturally has his eyes on her daughter too ) ; I was only familiar with him from two good British horror flicks - THE DEVIL RIDES OUT ( 1968 ) and CRY OF THE BANSHEE ( 1970 ) - and I wonder how he came to be involved with smut such as this ( and , moreover , in Italy ) ! One of the most notable ( but not necessarily noteworthy ) elements in the film is the soft-focus cinematography ; it's practically shot like that all the way through , which rather kills its intended effectiveness ! Brass himself appears as a bandleader at the beginning and end of the movie , the latter during the interminable wedding scene ( which rather reminded me of the similar conclusion to Federico Fellini's AMARCORD [ 1973 ] , also a film with the emphasis on sex and vulgarity but undeniably superior ! ) .
GHOST STORY ( John Irvin , 1981 )	This is another film I missed out on Italian TV as a kid : notable for its quintet of ageing stars , most of whom had never made a horror film in their life ( Fred Astaire , Melvyn Douglas , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , John Houseman and Patricia Neal ) , it deals with the men’s long-concealed past crime coming back to haunt them . It takes the form of a ghostly dead-ringer for the girl they all loved ( Alice Krige ) but whom they were forced to dispose of after an unfortunate incident when she humiliated their egos ! Fairbanks , who was the one responsible for the deed , has twin sons ( Craig Wasson ) and so Krige directs her revenge upon them as well . Soon one of the latter , Fairbanks himself and even Douglas and Houseman all wind up dead . Therefore , the remaining Wasson and Astaire decide to confront the ghost at the scene of the crime where they also have to contend with a couple of sinister tramps who somehow do Krige’s bidding ! I was looking forward to seeing these veterans on their last legs ( Douglas died before the film had even premiered though , by that time , he had already completed another role , while it proved Astaire’s own inauspicious swan-song ) but GHOST STORY went through too many changes of mood – while maintaining a sluggish pace throughout and emerging overlong into the bargain – to be anything but a failed curio . Having dollops of sex ( including full-frontal nudity from Wasson ! ) and gruesome make-up effects muddled the waters all the more and marred the old-fashioned elegance inherent in Jack Cardiff’s ( another notable of long-standing ) cinematography .
Genesis - The Creation And The Flood ( Ermanno Olmi , 1994 )	My father rented " The Bible Collection " DVDs over the Easter period , but I was interested in watching only two of these and that was only because of who directed them - this one by Italian film-maker Olmi and the already-reviewed SAMSON AND DELILAH ( 1996 ) by Nicolas Roeg . Of course , as Roeg's film obviously elicited largely unfavorable comparisons to Cecil B . De Mille's 1949 spectacular , so too does this one to John Huston's notorious 1966 biblical flop . Still , much as that film proved a disappointment , its undeniable grandeur is vastly preferable to the ordinariness and quasi-documentary style of Olmi's effort ( the star cast Huston assembled certainly didn't hurt - whereas here only Italian actor Omero Antonutti is recognizable at all , as the rest of the cast is comprised of non-professional Moroccans ) ! To be fair to Olmi , he handles the events with some imagination - as they're presented in the form of campfire tales narrated by nomad Antonutti ( who also takes on the role of Noah ) to his people - and the images ( accentuated by Ennio Morricone's wistful score ) are often poetic . . . but the over-familiarity of it all and the distinct lack of excitement displayed throughout results in sheer dullness ! Thankfully , the film is only around an hour and a half in length - whereas most of the other titles in " The Bible Collection " ran for something like twice that running-time ( as does , after all , John Huston's THE BIBLE - IN THE BEGINNING itself ) . One other asset to the film , at least in its English-dubbed version I watched , is the melodious voice of Paul Scofield ( who dubs Antonutti throughout ) .
10 , 000 B . C . ( Roland Emmerich , 2008 )	I hadn't rented a contemporary film in ages , but decided to check this one out to take some time off the " Euro-Cult " phase I'm currently going through ; unfortunately , it turned out to be a lackluster affair and hardly worth the time invested in it ( I do have two more ? I'M NOT THERE [ 2007 ] and THE OTHER BOLEYN GIRL [ 2008 ] ? which I hope will emerge to be far more rewarding ) ! Anyway , the film obviously recalls the quirky prehistoric Hammer outing ONE MILLION YEARS , B . C . ( 1966 ) ; however , while that one had the guts to completely eschew the use of intelligible dialogue , this incongruously has the nominal tribe speak perfect English and all the others in an indistinct ' foreign ' tongue ( the latter are even able to communicate with each another , but their language is not understood by the heroes and his people ) ! Anyway , though the film tries to get by on the virtues of spectacle and action ( since the plot is incredibly clichéd ) , the whole is considerably undermined by the excessive reliance on fake-looking ( you don't say ) CGI effects ? none more so , perhaps , than the " Spear Tooth " tiger creature ( the appearance of which is rendered redundant and incoherent by having its introduction relegated to the cutting room floor ? er ? deleted scenes section of the DVD ! Still , the acting is woefully inadequate as well ? the hero is bland , the heroine good-looking but underused and the villains stereotyped ( including the all-too-human ' God ' ) ? as is Emmerich's uninspired direction . In any case , in films like these , it's always the technical aspects ? and especially the relentlessly booming ( and enveloping ) soundtrack ? which provides the biggest draw to potential viewers . By the way , the scenes featuring Omar Sharif ( playing the boy who idolizes the hero as an adult ) also ended up being discarded ? and all that's left of his contribution is the intermittent narration !
LORD OF ILLUSIONS { Theatrical Version } ( Clive Barker , 1995 )	I'd been underwhelmed by Barker's signature film HELLRAISER ( 1987 ) ; however , since this was rated on the " Cult Filmz " website , I decided to check it out given that it was often shown on local Cable TV . As it happened , the film is available in two versions ( the original theatrical release at 109 minutes and the Director's Cut , running 122 ) and it's the former which I ended up watching ; incidentally , I had planned to include this in my Halloween horror schedule back in October ? but I only managed to get to it now ! Anyway , the film is a mix of noir and diabolism ( other similar examples are ANGEL HEART [ 1987 ] , which I still haven't caught up with but may be able to do so soon enough , and FALLEN [ 1998 ] ) : it's fairly intriguing during the first hour ? but , as I said in relation to other recent horror outings ( see my review of RE-ANIMATOR [ 1985 ] below ) , the intricacies of the plot get lost eventually in a wave of special effects and mindless gore ! The narrative concerns private eye Scott Bakula ( just off a case dealing with exorcism ) who's asked to investigate a series of deaths occurring within the individual circles of a couple of rival magicians ? the elder of whom seems to have gone too far and the other , a former student , is intent on putting a stop to his activity . The film opens with a prologue in which he does just that ( by way of a BLACK Sunday [ 1960 ] - type iron mask ) ? but , then , it transpires that a creepy acolyte who has escaped the initial onslaught is waiting for the opportune moment in which to revive him . In the interim , the younger magician has acquired prestige but the endeavor has also unbalanced his mind somewhat ? while the girl he saved from the hands of his nemesis , and who had subsequently brought about the latter's come-uppance , has become his wife ( played by Famke Jannsen ) . Unsurprisingly , however , their relationship isn't genuine and she gradually becomes involved with Bakula . The young magician fakes his own death ( via a stage act gone wrong involving a number of falling swords ) and , in the end , turns up for a final showdown with his old mentor ( the latter having himself disposed of the remaining members of his cult because he deemed them unworthy of his exalted state ) . Of course , Jannsen and Bakula get mixed-up in the fracas and narrowly escape with their lives . As I said earlier , this had the makings of a good occult thriller ? but , ultimately , is defeated by its own excesses .
GOLDEN NEEDLES ( Robert Clouse , 1974 )	Despite bringing together a newly-born film star – Joe Don Baker , fresh from the box-office smash , WALKING TALL ( 1973 ) – and action director – Robert Clouse , of ENTER THE DRAGON ( 1973 ) fame – this a lamentably lackluster martial arts flick about the search for ( or rather the chase after ) a bronze statue which contains seven golden all-curing acupuncture needles which is craved by various parties . Baker is a retired detective slumming it out in Hong Kong who is hired by an enterprising ‘cowgirl’ ( Elizabeth Ashley ) to look for the titular commodities on behalf of her mysterious employer . Baker comes in possession of the statue early on in the game but it is subsequently stolen from the house of an old Asian teacher of his who is murdered ; consequently , he teams up with his colored partner Jim Kelly ( saddled with an Afro hair-do typical of the era ) in L . A . to go after the bad guys – with a little help from a butt-kicking Asian policewoman and her colleagues . Hollywood veterans Burgess Meredith ( as the villainous old businessman who seeks immortality ) and Ann Sothern ( as a Hong Kong madam who takes punishment like a man to protect Baker ) bring some much needed spice to the largely indifferent proceedings .
HURRICANE ( Jan Troell , 1979 )	In view of the disaster-movie cycle of the 1970s , somebody got the bright idea of remaking the John Ford classic THE HURRICANE ( 1937 ) ? lavishing on it a considerable budget , a handful of stars , and the best that special effects wizardry could afford at the time ; however , the end result was so dreadful ( and old-fashioned ) that the film proved a notorious flop ! The setting ( adapted from a book by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall , best-known for another adventure with an exotic backdrop , " Mutiny On The Bounty " ) is a South Sea island run by the American Navy ; the arrival of the Governor's daughter causes a commotion ? the newly-crowned native King forsakes his local girl for the white woman's charms ; this obviously creates problems between the two sets of inhabitants , who do not wish to have their blood mingle ? but , before the situation can be resolved , the Forces of Nature contrive to mete out their own form of justice ( via the titular catastrophe ) . Jason Robards Jr . is the Governor , Mia Farrow his daughter , and Dayton Kane the young ruler ; besides , Max von Sydow is a doctor , Trevor Howard a priest , Timothy Bottoms a Navy officer ( with feelings for Farrow ) and James Keach as Kane's hostile keeper ( the latter having been convicted of his fiancé's death , who drowned after fleeing a ceremony in which her virginity was to be ascertained ! ) . Despite enviable credentials ? producer Dino De Laurentiis , acclaimed Swedish director Troell , cinematographer Sven Nykvist , composer Nino Rota ( whose contribution is particularly notable ) and production designer Danilo Donati ? the film is something of a snoozer , with endless footage devoted to local color and the unconvincing central romance ? until the spectacular climax ( but which still isn't really enough to redress the balance ) ! Having re-acquainted myself with this ( I'd already watched it as a kid ) , I hope someday to get a fresh appraisal of the Oscar-winning original as well ; it was available on DVD very early into the format , but hasn't been re-issued since going out-of-print !
THE HAND ( Oliver Stone , 1981 )	Nobody can ever accuse Michael Caine of not having had a fascinating career . His incredibly prolific filmography ( 132 appearances and counting in just over 50 years ) is littered with high highs ( a handful of all-time classics and 2 Academy Awards ) and low lows ( actually , from quite early on in his career to , unsurprisingly , the present day ) . Still , the latter bunch are , for all their glaring faults , hardly unwatchable and , at times , fairly tolerable and this rare horror item is certainly among his more interesting failures . Apart from its horror elements and the chance to watch another Michael Caine stinker ( although , as it turns out , Jon Voight and Christopher Walken had both previously turned down the lead role ) , the film's main draw nowadays is watching an early ( though not the first ) directorial stint from Oliver Stone ( he even has an amusing unbilled cameo as an ill-fated tramp ) and , most intriguingly , within an exploitation genre from which he has distanced himself completely since then . As I mentioned earlier , the film ends up being less the disastrous embarrassment I had anticipated and more a watchable ( if hardly original ) horror flick which moves rather slowly but has has the occasional effective shock moment to satiate genre fans . In fact , Stone infuses the film with a modicum of style including subjective shots from the marauding hand's point of view , delirious dream sequences often shot in monochrome and , most incredibly , an utterly grisly freak car accident sequence ( with fake blood galore ) early on in the film in which cartoonist Caine loses his drawing hand and which sets the narrative in motion . The thing is that , while it starts well enough , the film is soon bogged down by repetitive marital squabbles between an increasingly unhinged Caine and his free-spirited wife Andrea Marcovicci . Besides , Caine's stump is not exactly the greatest and , when all is said and done , we have been here once too often and I only need to point out the other more notable cinematic examples of " the walking hand " - THE HANDS OF ORLAC ( 1924 ) , MAD LOVE ( 1935 ) THE BEAST WITH FIVE FINGERS ( 1946 ) , THE EXTERMINATING ANGEL ( 1962 ) , DR . TERROR'S HOUSE OF HORRORS ( 1965 ) and . . . AND NOW THE SCREAMING STARTS ! ( 1973 ) - for this film's relative redundance to become apparent . Still , that such an old-fashioned concept was revived at this point in time and by these film-makers is extraordinary in itself but , even if they did try to bring it up-to-date with the addition of gore and sleaze , I can't say I was too surprised by the twist ending which - while not making a great deal of sense and somewhat dispelling the strong similarities with Michael Caine's previous role in another imitative ( but much more successful ) slasher , DRESSED TO KILL ( 1980 ) , which had previously been to the fore - provided Hollywood veteran Viveca Lindfors with a very brief but notable cameo as Caine's no-nonsense shrink .
THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII { Edited U . S . Version } ( Carmine Gallone and Amleto Palermi , 1926 )	To begin with , my acquisition ? and current viewing ? of this one came purely by accident : the film was paired with the later 1959 version on a budget DVD ( though actually advertised as being the even earlier rendition from 1913 ! ) ; as for my watching it , I didn't consciously include the film at this juncture in my Epics challenge because of the similar WAR GODS OF BABYLON ( 1962 ) from the previous day ? but , simply , because I was pressed for time ( more on this later ) . To get back to the confusion over which ' primitive ' version was included on the DVD , in all fairness , one would be excused in thinking this emanated from the 1910s rather than the last days of the Silent era { sic } , considering the exaggerated acting style ? which had been all but surpassed by this time ? on display . This , however , is just as easily negated by the brief and pointless instances of nudity in the film ? not to mention the presence of German actor Bernhard Goetzke , best-known for playing Death in Fritz Lang's DESTINY ( 1921 ) . In hindsight , I must admit that my exposure to early Italian cinema has been too scarce to pass objective judgment upon it ! Even so , my low rating of the film has more to do with the fact that it's a heavily-condensed version ( lasting a measly 57 minutes ) of the original , listed on the IMDb as having a hefty 147-minute running-time ( presumably , at Silent-film speed ) ! ; besides , the intertitles have been eliminated in favor of a droning narration in English ( the epic film , then , seems to have made the U . S . rounds in this ungainly form ) . For this reason , it races through an elaborate plot featuring innumerable characters ; what remains leans , predictably , towards melodrama : Boy loves Girl , Girl is under the spell of Magician , Boy also loved by Blind Waif and another woman ( whose rejection leads her to consort with Magician in order to mix a love potion ) , a pagan Temple-boy sees the error of his ways and converts to Christianity , Magician kills the latter and is blackmailed by a greedy but unwise eye-witness , Boy ( mystified by the drug ) finds himself accused of the young priest's murder and is sentenced to fight for his life in the arena , Blind Waif ( who's prone to atrocious singing and harp-playing ! ) finally sacrifices herself so as not to stand in the path of True Love , etc . All of which , of course , leads to the volcanic eruption that's the true raison d'etre of the popular tale ? a spectacle which redeems this version to some extent . By the way , Victor Varconi ? who plays the part of the hero ? subsequently had a long career in Hollywood as a character actor ; as for director Gallone , he too kept on working steadily for many years afterwards ( I have his CARMEN DI TRASTEVERE [ 1962 ] in my " To Watch " list recorded off late-night Italian TV , a modernization of another much-filmed source ? Prosper Merimee''s " Carmen " , which also inspired the famous Georges Bizet opera ) .
LATITUDE ZERO ( Inoshiro Honda , 1969 )	This is a bigger budgeted film than usual for genre director Honda ( with more evidently elaborate sets ) ? though the special effects still have that distinctive cheesiness to them ( witness the giant bats and rodents on display ) . It also utilizes a surprising number of American actors : Joseph Cotten playing the visionary scientist looks ill-at-ease and frail ( but , then , his character is supposed to be 204 years old ! ) , an innocuous Richard Jaeckel is the photographer hero while , as chief villains , we get Cesar Romero and Patricia Medina ( both essentially campy ) . As I've often said , I grew up watching English-language films dubbed in Italian ? but hearing Hollywood actors in Japanese is another thing entirely ! LATITUDE ZERO feels like a juvenile version of a typical Jules Verne adventure , and is fairly entertaining on that level ; indeed , it's preferable to Honda's low-brow variations on the monsters-on-the-rampage formula because of the inherent quaint charm of the set-up in this case . The plot involves the kidnapping of a famous scientist by Romero ? he was intended to establish himself in the underwater , technologically advanced city devised by Cotten ( to which the world's foremost minds are being recruited ) . We're treated to plenty of silly battles between the rival subs , but the most amusing scenes are certainly the raid on Romero's cave ? in fact , Cotten doing somersaults and fending off men in rubber suits ( via flames and laser emitted from his glove ! ) must surely count as the nadir of his acting career ; the other elder in the cast , Romero , is more in his element ? after all , he had been The Joker in the BATMAN TV series and movie of the 1960s ! Cotten has a scantily-clad blonde physician on his team , and is assisted by a hulking Asian ; Romero , on the other hand , is flanked by an Oriental femme fatale ? who , however , ends up getting a raw deal for her efforts ( the girl's brain is eventually transplanted into a hybrid of lion and condor ? which is among the phoniest-looking creatures you ever saw ! ) . Apparently , a 2-disc set of this one from Media Blasters streets on this very day ! !
ATTACK OF THE 50 FOOT WOMAN ( TV ) ( Christopher Guest , 1993 )	A smartly feminist reading of the 1958 camp classic is the basis of this made-for-TV remake which needlessly opens up the proceedings by adding some 25 minutes of " character development " – which , basically , means new personalities who further traumatize or assist the distressed titular female . Daryl Hannah has trouble coping with the ugly duckling part of the story but grows nicely into her role once the gigantic transformation comes along and in which she is curiously but attractively decked out in cavewoman garb ! Excepting the rather obnoxious Daniel Baldwin ( as Hannah’s philandering husband ) , the rest of the cast is capable enough : Frances Fisher is Hannah’s helpful shrink , William Windom is her greedy tycoon father and , best of all , Cristi Conaway is Baldwin’s sexy mistress who practically changes to a more outrageous wig with every new scene she’s in ; I knew nothing of her going in but , being sufficiently impressed I looked up her resume ' on IMB and , what do you know , she was once married to an actor of presumably Maltese origins named Salvator Xuereb ! ! This is all well and good , perhaps , but I still wouldn’t say that this is an improvement on the unjustly maligned original ; for one thing , there are no giant aliens to be seen here and , worse still , the goofy fat deputy is ( predictably , under the circumstances ) replaced by a squeaky , tomboyish girl . The sheriff and his deputy are here depicted as being avid drive-in cinema-goers and , at one point , Hannah rips off the roof of a cinema which is screening the 1958 original ! The new coda is also quite amusing : having been received inside the spaceship which caused her enormous growth , Hannah is joined by two other gigantic beauties who , sure enough , look upon their tiny hubbies as they go confessing to their various infidelities in interstellar group therapy !
ATTACK OF THE 50 FOOT WOMAN ( Nathan Juran , 1958 )	I’d been interested in watching this ever since it was cited as the Worst Film Ever on an entry devoted to 1950s sci-fi cinema in a British periodical from the early 1980s entitled " The Movie " ( incidentally , the Leonard Maltin Film Guide also awarded this the unenviable BOMB rating ) . When it came out on DVD last year , I became interested in purchasing the " Cult Camp Classics " Box Set in which it was included ( along with QUEEN OF OUTER SPACE [ 1958 ] and THE GIANT BEHEMOTH [ 1959 ] ) ; however , since recently acquiring QUEEN on DVD-R , I had put paid to the idea . Happily , I’ve just stumbled upon the film on DivX – however , the print wasn’t culled from the Warners DVD ( which is said to boast a surprisingly pleasant-looking transfer ) but rather a muddy TV print . . . though not so much that the detail is lost ( in other words , it was like watching the film in sepia as opposed to black-and-white ! ) . Anyway , to get to the matter at hand : I have to admit that , in a way , I was disappointed the film didn’t prove to be the laugh-fest I had anticipated all this time ( Maltin calls it " hilariously awful " ) ; actually , I found it quite engaging – and thankfully brief at a little over an hour in length . Some undeniably amusing bits remain though – such as when the old nurse starts screaming her head off at the sight of the 50-foot woman , and when the Sheriff’s deputy almost runs over his chief and the leading lady’s butler in his enthusiasm to be of assistance in such an unusual case . Neither did the special effects hit me as being " among the funniest " ( Maltin again ) on film – though they’re certainly embarrassingly bad ! O . K . , so the idea that an alien ( in giant-sized human form , clad in cave-man rags , and radioactive to boot ! ) coming to Earth in a big ball-shaped ( ! ) spaceship and apparently after the heroine’s prized necklace is utter nonsense – and his quasi-transparent appearance does it no favors at all . . . but , really , it’s the human story that holds our attention ( relatively speaking ) . The character of the philandering husband isn’t very interesting , but his two women are : wealthy but nagging alcoholic wife Allison Hayes and ambitious , vixenish girlfriend Yvette Vickers . Also involved in the narrative are Hayes’ faithful servant ( already mentioned ) , a couple of cops ( one of them , as noted elsewhere , being amiably goofy ) and as many doctors ( one of whom is named Dr . Cushing [ ! ] and another a specialist who’s called in when Hayes starts growing in size after being exposed to radiation ) . Of course , the film could be seen as the reversed female version of THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN ( 1957 ) – though it wouldn’t be fair to compare the two further , as the Jack Arnold / Richard Matheson classic is far more psychological / intellectual in approach ; actually , Hayes doesn’t seem to be that bothered with her ‘condition’ and , in fact , takes advantage of it in order to teach her husband a lesson ! However , her rampage – exaggerated in movie posters of the era – is rather quaint ( especially when considering that it only occurs in the last ten minutes or so ) ; when not shown the damage caused by her enormous but highly unconvincing hand ( especially when lifting the puppet that’s supposed to be her husband ! ) , she’s mostly seen walking in long shot and almost from behind ( with her size even inconsistent in proportion to the buildings she passes by ) ! ! Still , Hayes’ demise via electrocution ( when she bumps into an electrical cable ) is competently done . Finally , I followed this with its 1993 TV remake with Daryl Hannah as the titular creature – which I rented specifically for this purpose .
DOWN AMONG THE Z MEN ( Maclean Rogers , 1952 )	This independently-produced British army comedy is chiefly notable now as Peter Sellers ' film debut and for being the only starring screen vehicle for comic radio performers The Goons ( of which Sellers himself was a member ) . Actually , it wasn't as bad as I had anticipated ? given the unenthusiastic reviews online ( chiefly because it's said that their material has been heavily diluted in the transition ) ; still , it's not helped by the dated TV-style technique on display . Curiously enough , the laughs come mostly from the characterization of a scruffy , absent-minded Professor played by Michael Bentine ? the least-known and shortest-lived member of the group ! Of the other three , Harry Secombe is the nominal lead ? but his character doesn't have a distinct personality ( at least in this incarnation ) ; Spike Milligan is a private whose dopey countenance and voice seems to have been inspired by Goofy , the canine star of Walt Disney cartoons ! ; Peter Sellers , surely the Goon with the most prominent subsequent career ( I've just acquired a number of his work from the 1960s and 1970s ) , is reasonably impressive ? if basically playing it straight ? as an elderly Major . The plot has to do with a secret gas formula devised by Bentine , which is coveted by enemy agents who infiltrate the camp ( looking out for him is a female member of M . I . 5 passing herself off as Sellers ' daughter ) ; Secombe , then , is the everyman hero who unwittingly finds himself ' drafted ' . Unfortunately , most of the second half ( the film runs for a mere 71 minutes ) is taken up by a putting-on-a-show routine showcasing a number of resistible song-and-dance performers ? though the busy climax , at least , shows three of The Goons all dressed in similar outfits to confuse the villains ( a gag probably lifted from The Crazy Gang's THE FROZEN LIMITS [ 1939 ] , which I've recently watched ) . . . while Sellers , somewhat irrelevantly , does a couple of impersonations on stage ( a great talent he possessed and which he would constantly fall back on for the rest of his career ) .
THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR ( Tod Browning , 1929 )	Some years back , this film had been scheduled for broadcast on TCM UK as part of a Tod Browning retrospective ? but what they actually showed was the 1937 remake ! ; my brother had watched it ( and , in hindsight , it followed the original pretty much scene-for-scene , even down to the set design ) ? though no classic , he said it was a far more satisfying viewing experience than the incredibly creaky earlier version ? This being the first collaboration between Browning and Bela Lugosi , I had high hopes for it ? but these were quashed when it became evident after the first reel of tedious conversation that the film's main concern was to appease the still-novel sound technique , and consequently the result is stagey and extremely static . The thriller plot isn't exactly exciting either ; even less appetizing is the ostensible British-Indian setting ( with the characters ' affected accents and upper-class demeanor ? not to mention the over-use of corny idiosyncratic idioms such as " I say " , " rather " and " now look here " ? rendering the whole risible more than anything else ) ! Apart from this , there are a few unintended howlers : Margaret Wycherly ( as a fake medium ) pleads with Police Inspector Lugosi ( if anything , his undeniable screen presence is already evident ) to give her some time to ' work out ' who the culprit of the double-murder really is ( the evidence points to her own daughter , played by Leila Hyams ! ) ? she hears a tapping and is deluded into thinking that the spirit world has genuinely made contact with her ? but then Lugosi enters the room and , in his unmistakable accent , straight-facedly tells her " I knocked twice ? you didn't hear me ! " , at which my brother and I almost fell to the floor in convulsions of laughter ! ! ; the editing is really sloppy , too : during one high-angle shot of the main set , a mike is seen being rapidly pulled up out of camera range ? and even worse are a couple of instances where a person walks off-screen , ostensibly into the next shot , to another part of the set ? but each shot is held on the other actors for an absurdly long time , so that it appears to take forever for this person to walk just a few paces ! ! THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR marks the third non-horror Browning Talkie that I've watched ? even if both this and MIRACLES FOR SALE ( 1939 ) deal with murder and occultism and could , therefore , still be linked to the genre . Much has been said about the director's apparent slackening with the coming of Sound : however , flawed though they may be , the 4 straight horror films he did throughout the 30s are infinitely better than the rest ? which I've always found stylish and bizarre enough to suggest that Browning wasn't as much at sea during this period as has been suggested ?
THE MAN FROM NOWHERE ( Michele Lupo , 1966 )	This is the eighth Spaghetti Western I've watched starring Giuliano Gemma - the others had been A PISTOL FOR RINGO ( 1965 ) , THE RETURN OF RINGO ( 1965 ) , FORT YUMA GOLD ( 1966 ) , DAY OF ANGER ( 1967 ) , A SKY FULL OF STARS FOR A ROOF ( 1968 ) , THE PRICE OF POWER ( 1969 ) and SILVER SADDLE ( 1978 ) . All of them are superior to THE MAN FROM NOWHERE - which turned out to be a sub-standard example of the genre and , though not an intentional parody , is so clichéd as to seem that way ! Incidentally , the U . S . title is quite stupid since the main character ( named Arizona Colt - also the film's original title ) explicitly states he is named after the state he hails from ! ! Fernando Sancho ( again ) is the trigger-happy chief villain ; among his ragged outlaw gang is a drunkard Mickey Shaughnessy type who , unsurprisingly , befriends the hero - while favorite Euro-Cult starlet Rosalba Neri appears as a saloon-hostess , though she's killed off almost immediately ! The film is stretched to a length of almost two hours for no very good reason which , with a none-too-exciting plot line at its centre ( concocted by the ubiquitous Ernesto Gastaldi ) , quickly becomes tedious ; even so , it does work its way to a good climax ( with the hero utilizing a fake pair of hands to divert his adversary's attention , followed by a shoot-out in semi-darkness inside a funeral parlor ) . The Wild East DVD I watched was extremely poor , which certainly didn't help my involvement in the film any : first off , the English dubbing is horrendous ( Gemma's character is saddled with a ludicrous Southern accent ) ; the muddy print - presented in a masked 1 . 85 : 1 ratio so as to simulate the original 2 . 35 : 1 Techniscope format ! - features a number of jarring jump-cuts ( indicating missing or damaged frames and suggesting , somewhat distressingly , that the film's supposed to be even longer than it already is ) and , during one early instance , even falls several generations below the already unsatisfying standard on display . For the record , THE MAN FROM NOWHERE had a follow-up in ARIZONA COLT , HIRED GUN ( 1970 ) - with a different actor in the lead ( Anthony Steffen ) , it's mainly notable for being Sergio Martino's debut film .
Ghosts On The Loose ( 1943 )	Despite giving it the same rating as SPOOKS RUN WILD ( 1941 ) , this is , on the whole , a more enjoyable effort but still not good enough for me to make the above-average grade . Once again , the title is a misnomer and the villains turn out to have nothing at all supernatural about them but are merely a band of fifth columnists ! Unlike MURDER BY TELEVISION ( 1935 ) , the print I watched of this one was actually longer than expected since the sequence where the police arrive for the first time at the ' haunted ' house is repeated a few minutes later ; I suppose this is a result of a screw-up inherent in the print sourced for the transfer and , in any case , I didn't mind it as much as when it happened on local TV screenings of OUR RELATIONS ( 1936 ; where an entire reel from SMISS MISS [ 1938 ] found itself into the lengthy restaurant section which runs for most of the film's second half ! ) and Jean Renoir's THE SOUTHERNER ( 1945 ) !
La Folie Du Docteur Tube ( Abel Gance , 1915 )	It’s ironic that , of Gance’s more celebrated Silent work , this should be the one I watch first : it’s a one-reel short about a mad scientist – hence its inclusion in the " Horror Challenge " , though the tone throughout is distinctly comical ! The titular figure is played by Albert Dieudonne – later the incarnation of Napoleon in the director’s eponymous epic of 1927 – and who’s fitted here with an exaggerated domed head , which he finally shelters inside a cage ! Even so , its raison d’etre is Gance’s use of the wide-angle lens in depicting the disorientating effect on people when subjected to a drug ( in the form of dust particles ) concocted by the protagonist . However , this gimmick – which actually prevents one from following what’s going on ! – is kept up for an inordinate length of time : consequently , even at a mere 10 minutes , the gimmick outstays its welcome . . .
GAMBLING CITY ( Sergio Martino , 1975 )	To begin with , this film presents the worst case of Panning & Scanning I've ever come across with the camera literally jittering across the frame to reveal some pertinent information ! It's not a typical poliziottesco but rather a mildly enjoyable take on THE STING ( 1973 ) : Luc Merenda is practically the whole show here as the ultra-confident hustler - which isn't exactly a good thing as he's stubbornly failed to impress me ( in the acting stakes ) with every film he's done ; he was at his most tolerable perhaps in the giallo TORSO ( 1973 ) , incidentally also directed by Martino . Enrico Maria Salerno has a notable role , too , as a respected but crippled racketeer dubbed " The President " . While there are the requisite action sequences , the film spends too much time on Merenda's sentimental attachment to Dayle Haddon - even going so far as to include a ludicrous downbeat coda in which both she and her newborn baby die ! As a matter of fact , the film's light-hearted first half fails to jell convincingly with the roughness of the second ( in which Haddon is raped , Merenda is beaten to a pulp , Salerno is viciously disposed of , etc ) . Besides , the film's score - usually one of such Euro-Cult items ' major assets - is at once corny and reminiscent of Isaac Hayes ' classic SHAFT ( 1971 ) theme ! The film has received an unaccountable SE DVD release by No Shame but , despite the appalling video quality of the VHS copy I watched , I don't see myself picking it up for a possible reappraisal . . .
MYSTERY ON MONSTER ISLAND ( Juan Piquer Simon , 1981 )	Unfortunately , this one constituted another gaffe within my ongoing Halloween challenge since it’s not really a horror film despite title , director ( he’d later make the gory PIECES [ 1983 ] ) and presence of genre icons Peter Cushing and Paul Naschy ! In fact , it’s a typical Jules Verne adventure ( based on his much-filmed " Mysterious island " ) which proves surprisingly palatable – thanks also to a lively score – though unbalanced by comedy relief from the youthful hero’s bumbling / cowardly sidekick , a Professor of Elocution whose name is constantly mispronounced ( " T . Artelet not tartlet ! " ) . Cushing is the protagonist’s rich uncle who has purchased an island , to which the boy is sent and where he meets a variety of dangers ( pirates , cannibals , monsters ) – eventually , there’s a twist with respect to most of these , which thankfully explains the sheer poverty of the creatures on display ! On the other hand , Naschy has a very small role at the start as a man who has struck gold – which is then coveted by his associates . The latter include Terence Stamp who , for obvious reasons , was Cushing’s chief rival for the acquisition of the island ; later on , he turns up on it ( ludicrously shrouded from top to bottom complete with anachronistic goggles ! ) with his bandit horde to take the gold by force – to this end , he even plants a female ‘shipwreck victim’ to lure the hero into divulging the loot’s whereabouts . Coupled with the far better GORILLA AT LARGE ( 1954 ; see above ) on Fox's-by-way-of-MGM " Midnite Movies " banner , it offers the film both in English and Spanish . At first , always the stickler for a film's native country being its original language , I started watching the film in Spanish but when a narrator began translating the credits into Spanish and the English subtitles proved to be of the descriptive " hard of hearing " variety , I soon gave up my puritan pretensions and watched it with the more ' user friendly ' English soundtrack on . At least , one does get to hear Cushing and Stamp reciting their own lines this way . . .
MY BLOODY VALENTINE ( George Mihalka , 1981 )	This is one of the myriad early 80s slashers made in the wake of HALLOWEEN ( 1978 ) - but actually originating with BLACK Christmas ( 1974 ) - revolving around some holiday period . The film offers all the usual trappings : scares , gore , a little nudity , teenagers ( comprising the romantic triangle and the inevitable obnoxious clown ) , state / law officials , a childhood trauma , an old-timer's warnings going unheeded by the kids , etc . As such , it's no worse ( or better ) than many of its ilk - at least among the few that I've watched myself - but the mining-town setting does provide novelty value and a little atmosphere ( though the sight of the masked pickaxe-wielding murderer , whose identity isn't too hard to guess by the way , eventually grows tiresome ! ) .
SKIDOO ( Otto Preminger , 1968 )	Perhaps stemming from a desperate need to remain relevant during a period of constant and drastic change , Hollywood's most serious film directors ? among them , Joseph Losey , John Huston and Otto Preminger ? tried their hands at zany comedy during the 1960s and even embraced the counter-culture for a while ; thus , we were subjected , in quick succession , to MODESTY BLAISE ( 1966 ) , CASINO ROYALE ( 1967 ) and SKIDOO . Earlier still , we even had the foremost message-monger in filmdom , Stanley Kramer , concoct that epic comedy IT'S A MAD , MAD , MAD , MAD WORLD ( 1963 ) ? which , however , would prove to be a far more successful enterprise than any of the others that followed later in the decade . In fact , prior to this , Otto Preminger was the main contender for Stanley Kramer's title and had been directing a succession of ponderous , self-important message pictures like EXODUS ( 1960 ) and HURRY SUNDOWN ( 1967 ) ? to mention the least of them . In the words of David Thomson , " . . . of all the Hollywood veterans , none seems to have lost his way as completely as Preminger . . . " and , as a matter of fact , the director's career took a nose-dive following BUNNY LAKE IS MISSING ( 1965 ; arguably his last good work ) , and the film under review is exceeded in awfulness only by ROSEBUD ( 1975 ; which I'd pick as his career nadir ) ; nevertheless , I wouldn't mind catching up with the one remaining film from this period , the black comedy SUCH GOOD FRIENDS ( 1971 ) . Therefore , while I knew of SKIDOO's bad reputation going in , I was still unprepared for how lame it actually was . Clearly aiming for the style of the hip , anything-goes comedy extravaganzas prevalent at the time ? spearheaded by WHAT'S NEW , PUSSYCAT ? ( 1965 ) ? unfortunately , it doesn't have the necessary in either plot ( gangsters learn to " Make Love , Not War " after meeting up with a community of hippies ) or laughs ( there are a few scattered chuckles but nothing side-splitting or truly memorable ) to be anything more than a messy curiosity ! Personally , I am an admirer of Preminger's but I found practically nothing of his personality here and his approach to the material is as heavy-handed as was to be expected after treating all those serious subjects for so long ( in spite of having worked closely with the great Ernst Lubitsch during the latter's final years ) . Preminger did have a knack for rounding up impressive all-star casts for his movies , however , and the line-up he roped in for SKIDOO was , at least on paper , certainly no exception : Jackie Gleason , Carol Channing ( who even gets to sing Harry Nilsson's catchy title song at the climax while dressed up as Napoleon Bonaparte ! ) , Frankie Avalon , Fred Clark ( who's quite fun as a prison guard fed LSD ) , Frank Gorshin , Richard Kiel , John Phillip Law ( as the most prominent of the flower children ) , Peter Lawford , Groucho Marx ( his comeback performance ? as a self-exiled criminal boss called God with a fiery , bare-backed , black female for an assistant ? is especially disappointing ) , Burgess Meredith , Austin Pendleton , Slim Pickens , George Raft ( as Marx's yacht skipper ! ) , Cesar Romero ( yes , we get three actors from the 1960s BATMAN TV series ? in which Preminger himself featured as Mr . Freeze ! ) and Mickey Rooney ? but , alas , no one's really given all that much to do ! Allegedly , the director experimented with LSD himself in preparation for this film but , unlike the altruistic effect this drug seemed to have on the flower people , it did not alter Preminger's customary tyrannical conduct towards his actors ? including the 78-year old Marx ( who was forced to put on his famous " Groucho " make-up complete with cigar ) ; besides , Faye Dunaway ? who was currently under contract to Preminger ? refused to appear in the film following her triumph in BONNIE AND CLYDE ( 1967 ) and was promptly taken to court by the director ! Furthermore , one must remember that Preminger's very first message movie had been that great anti-drug film , THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM ( 1955 ) and , here , he seemed to be advocating for the wanton consumption of LSD ! ! At any rate , in the very opening sequence of SKIDOO , the director made some kind of a statement about the way feature films are treated when shown on TV ( exemplified by a screening of his own WWII epic , IN HARM'S WAY [ 1965 ] ) ; it's ironic , then , that this viewing of mine came via a pan-and-scan Australian TV broadcast ( complete with frequent ad breaks ? though the actual publicity is , thankfully , omitted ) ! I guess that , apart from watching all those stars making fools of themselves , Nilsson's song score is perhaps the film's other major asset ? though , in a self-satisfied gesture , this includes a song wherein ( literally ) all the credits are sung ? which is not as novel an idea as it might initially appear since Ennio Morricone had previously done it for Pier Paolo Pasolini's HAWKS AND SPARROWS ( 1966 ) ! For what it's worth , the highlight ? if so it can be called ? is an LSD-induced hallucinatory production number entitled " Living in a Garbage Can " which features midgets dancing about in trash cans and , brace yourselves , mooning football players ! Incredibly enough , Bob Dylan ( ! ) had been Preminger's first choice to handle the musical chores on his picture ? which received two viewings from the folk / rock legend at Otto's own mansion before he ( wisely ) declined the assignment ! ! I've purposefully left the storyline well alone since , in the case of a film like this , it's superfluous to dwell much on the details of the plot anyhow : for better or worse , it's an experience every individual viewer has to make his own mind up about ? just for the record , eminent British film critic Leslie Halliwell called it " one of the most woebegone movies ever made " ! Still , in the unlikely event that Paramount decides to grant this notorious turkey a legitimate DVD release some day . . . who knows ? I might be tempted to give it another peek !
THE CANNONBALL RUN ( Hal Needham , 1981 )	This is one of those films watched during my childhood days which , unfortunately , didn't now live up to my recollection of it ; even if I knew it doesn't have a good reputation ( despite the box-office success which spawned a sequel three years later ) , I still expected the film to be more entertaining than it proved to be ! The film is said to rip-off THE GUMBALL RALLY ( 1976 ) , which I haven't watched ; ironically , I had intended to check it out for this Christmas season as well but its DVD is currently unavailable at my local rental outlet . Being only a little over one and a half hours in length , the narrative doesn't have enough time to adequately accommodate its roster of stars , all of whom seem to be there for the fun of it anyway : a pity , therefore , that this sentiment isn't always transmitted to the audience ! The cast is led by Burt Reynolds ( a regular in ex-stuntman / director Needham's films ? having been also the star of the " Smokey And The Bandit " franchise ) , Dom De Luise ( whose character has a superhero alter-ego named Captain Chaos ? one of the film's few inspired touches ) , Roger Moore ( playing a man posing as Roger Moore and with the expected rampant nods to his James Bond image ! ) and Rat Packers Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr . ( who spend most of the time disguised as priests ) ! Also on hand is Jack Elam ( as an eccentric doctor who likes to inject himself with whatever he's administering to his patients ! ) , Jackie Chan ( who manages to demonstrate a bit of his martial arts prowess but his scenes are otherwise among the dullest in the film ) , Jamie Farr ( as an Arab sheik , whose role will eventually be expanded in the sequel ) , Peter Fonda ( as the leader of a biker gang , what else ? ) and , of course , a number of women including Farrah Fawcett ( who naturally hitches up with Reynolds ) and Adrienne Barbeau ( as one of two female competitors who don't think twice about using their generous cleavage to get ahead in the race ) . To be honest , having been a few days since I watched both films anew , their proceedings ( and jokes ) now seem not only interchangeable but have begun to fade in the memory ; I do recall , however , that the race is finally won by the two sexy girls ( after Captain Chaos is called upon for help just as he's about to tread the finishing line ) !
THE MIRACLE OF THE BELLS ( Irving Pichel , 1948 )	Hollywood during WWII and its aftermath was marked by a series of fanciful but uplifting fantasies involving angels and similar divine interventions ; this is certainly among the oddest ones that were made – a blasphemous satire unsuccessfully passed off as romantic whimsy ! For a little-seen and mostly forgotten film , this eventually cropped up as a VHS rental in my neck of the woods in the early 1990s but , in spite of my curiosity , I passed on it back then – even though I had always been intrigued by celebrated film critic James Agee’s famous dismissal of it ( " I hereby declare myself the founding father of The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to God " ) . Consequently , knowing that 2008 marked the 10th anniversary of Frank Sinatra’s passing , I made it a point to catch it when it was shown on Italian TV . Given Sinatra’s third billing and smallish role as a Polish priest ( ! ) – was he trying to emulate Crosby’s award-winning turns in the Fr . O’Malley movies ? – it was hardly the ideal fare to mark that very day but that’s exactly what I did , the first of 10 planned Sinatras . This was actually his first dramatic role – even if he does get to sing a song . . . to Fred MacMurray in a cemetery ! ! The true leads of the film , then , are MacMurray and Italian star Alida Valli : the former is a Hollywood press agent and the latter a struggling theatrical actress ( she eventually has a hit with " Girl Of The Ozarks " ! ) who is imposed on skeptical film producer Lee J . Cobb when his international diva walks out of his current Joan Of Arc production ( coincidentally , Ingrid Bergman was portraying just such a role in relatively more lavish surroundings , including Technicolor , at the RKO studios ) . Valli , coming from a coal-mining town in Pennsylvania , is afflicted by tuberculosis and eventually kills herself in completing the film ( dying on the very next day after the end of shooting ! ) ; Cobb is highly reluctant to release a movie with a dead lead in it , but MacMurray – together with that above-mentioned divine intervention – convince him otherwise . Apparently the film is based on the case of Helen Burgess – a 19-year old Hollywood starlet who died before her big break in movies ( in Cecil B . De Mille’s THE PLAINSMAN [ 1936 ] ) – could bear its fruit . The actual " miracle " is rather preposterous ( if plausibly explained ) but its effectiveness is undermined by the fact that the bells had already been made to ring ( on MacMurray’s instructions via Valli’s death-bed wish ) for three consecutive days ( ! ) – a fact which would certainly have driven even the most devout and gullible of Christians off the wall ( and yet , on the big day , we see them flocking in droves to Sinatra’s previously forsaken church ) . The script , while mostly a Ben Hecht ‘adaptation’ piece , includes contributions from Quentin Reynolds and De Witt Bodeen ( which actually extend only to those scenes featuring Frank Sinatra ! ) . Director Irving Pichel had another far more rewarding religious film up his sleeve – MARTIN LUTHER ( 1953 ) , which I watched for the first time quite recently .
DAMON AND PYTHIAS ( Curtis Berhardt , 1962 )	Although I had heard of the titular historical characters ? probably from a Greek mythology class I sat for in Secondary School ? I had never read or seen their tale until now , via this rather lifeless and turgid peplum that was , until some time ago , a staple of TCM UK's schedule . The leads are likable enough as played by Guy Williams ( from Disney's " Zorro " TV-series in his penultimate theatrical feature ) and Don Burnett ( also in his next-to-last film , he was a dead ringer for Rock Hudson but much less charismatic ) , their inevitable love interests are , respectively , attractive ( Liana Orfei ) and histrionic ( Ilaria Occhini ) , while the villainous Tyrant of Syracuse ( the film's original Italian title ) was portrayed by a favorite Italian character actor who made his fair share of these things ? Arnoldo Foa ' who also speaks his own lines in serviceable English ! Actually , the latter's belated introduction breathes new life into the film making the second half far more compelling as Greek Burnett defies his Sicilian enemies to prove that his Pythagorian creed of " The Brotherhood of Man " ( perpetrated by persecuted philosopher Andrea Bosic ) by replacing Sicilian thief Williams who has , uncharacteristically , exchanged places with Burnett on the executioner's block because of the latter's impending fatherhood ! Therefore , it is rather unfortunate that , despite some interesting international credentials in the direction ( German Bernhardt , who would curiously himself retire after making just one more film ! ) and screen writing ( British playwright Bridget Boland and Hollywood veteran Samuel Marx ) departments , DAMON AND PYTHIAS does not emerge a better movie in the long run ? even when compared to most of the less-than-inspired product along the same lines being churned out by contemporary Italian B-grade film-makers .
FACELESS ( Jesus Franco , 1988 )	I had watched a good part of this on late-night Italian TV : I caught it from the scene where the Stephane Audran character is dispatched ? as it turned out , this occurred around the 36-minute mark so , obviously , I have to consider this as a first viewing ! Back then , I didn't like it at all ; even if the rating doesn't suggest it , I found it hard to hate a film like this : Franco revisits familiar territory with a bigger budget than usual and a surprisingly starry cast : apart from the afore-mentioned Audran , we also have here Helmut Berger , Brigitte Lahaie ( a regular of the contemporaneous horror work of Jean Rollin ) , Anton Diffring ( in his final appearance and whose best-known role also saw him play a demented surgeon ? CIRCUS OF HORRORS [ 1960 ] ) , Telly Savalas ( who had previously collaborated with another horror / Euro-Cult great ? Mario Bava ) , Chris Mitchum , Caroline Munro ( once a Hammer starlet ) , Gerald Zalcberg ( Mr . Hyde from Walerian Borowczyk's DOCTEUR JEKYLL ET LES FEMMES [ 1981 ] ) , as well as two Franco stalwarts in Howard Vernon ( his last stint playing " The Awful Dr . Orloff " ) and Lina Romay ! However , much of the director's effort goes for naught alongside the dated 1980s chic look and cheesy disco soundtrack . That said , the contribution of the cast is variable to say the least ? as a matter of fact , the film has even been ridiculed by the claim that the best performance comes from ex-porn actress Lahaie ! Sure , her participation is just about the most successful element in it ? infusing her character with a good balance of cold-bloodedness and sensuality ( involved with Berger in the casual seduction of prospective victims ) ? but the latter isn't bad either ( just a bit stiff ) , Diffring quietly imposing ( his statement that he had been a collaborator of Josef Mengele at Auschwitz is hilarious , whereas Dr . Orloff learned his craft under Diffring himself at Dachau ! ) and the odd-looking Zalcberg undeniably effective as Berger's burly mute henchman ( continuing Franco's obsession with such secondary characters ) . On the other hand , both Mitchum and Munro are out of their depth here , Audran clearly looks embarrassed , while a visibly-tired Savalas is saddled with a thankless role ( at times , literally phoning in his performance ) ! The film is perhaps best appreciated by non-Franco fans , since there's curiously little of his trademark ' style ' on this occasion : with FACELESS , the director may have demonstrated that he could work within the mainstream , but he was obviously more comfortable doing his own thing in a semi-improvised manner and with the barest of resources ! Besides , an audience of gore-hounds not used to Franco's earlier work wouldn't have scoffed at his outrageous touches of violence here : amputated hands , hypodermic in an eyeball , scissors in the throat , driller to the forehead ? not forgetting the grisly face-grafting scenes ( the first operation , which goes horribly wrong , generates some real tension with Lahaie and Berger looking on bewildered as Diffring fumes at the impracticality of the material he has to work with ) ! All in all , however , the film feels too different to the quintessential Franco product ? while offering nothing remotely new thematically ? to emerge as anything but a curio . As I said , the incongruously glossy look and irritating minor characters ( some of Berger's eccentric elderly patients and , especially , a pair of gay stereotypes intended to provide comic relief but which is actually both lame and offensive ) ultimately unbalance its points of interest . I had considered purchasing Media Blasters ' SE DVD , which includes a couple of Audio Commentaries ( one of them by the director himself ) ? but , frankly , the film isn't deserving of such extensive discussion / reminiscing ; besides , the disc reportedly suffers from the company's usual sloppy production ( the soundtrack reverting to French for the closing line and the audio of the main feature drowning out the latter section of Chris Mitchum's Commentary track ) .
THE PASSAGE ( J . Lee Thompson , 1979 )	I had watched this on PAL VHS during the late 1980s ; it's an ill-advised ( and misguided ) attempt to update the big-budget , star-studded WWII adventure spectacle spearheaded by THE GUNS OF NAVARONE ( 1961 ) ? by the same director and featuring one of its leads ( Anthony Quinn ) , no less ? for the more permissive 1970s ( with new-fangled dollops of violence , sex and foul language ) . Being aware of its bad reputation ( mostly due to Malcolm McDowell's outrageous contribution as the villain ) , I decided to give it another look when it turned up recently on Cable TV . The film involves a shepherd-cum-experienced mountain-climber ( a rather glum Quinn ) who's asked by the French resistance ( in the figures of Marcel Bozzuffi and Michel Lonsdale ) to take a prominent nuclear scientist ( James Mason ) and his family ( including wife Patricia Neal and daughter Kay Lenz ) across the Pyrenees to safety in neutral Spain ; along the way , they're helped by a group of traveling gypsies ( led by Christopher Lee ) , while McDowell is the maniacal SS officer in pursuit . The journey is fraught with problems ? mainly caused by Neal's poor health ( a really thankless role for the Oscar-winning actress ) , with which Quinn has little patience . Eventually , she decides to rid them of the burden and goes away to die in the snow ( Quinn and Bozzuffi feel her emerging from the cabin where they're all sheltered , but do nothing to stop her ! ) ? after which Mason tries to attack Quinn for pushing her to this , but falls flat on his face in the snow after only a couple of paces ( this bit somehow reminded me of a scene from one of the NAKED GUN films in which George Kennedy lashes at a couple of bullies for mistreating his partner and ends up getting beaten to a pulp himself ! ) . Lee , then , expires in a fiery death at the hands of the sadistic McDowell ? except that whatever tension there was here is destroyed by its being continually cross-cut with the flight of the central group ! However , the film's main source of entertainment is McDowell ? especially via his campy attire as a chef while torturing the captured Lonsdale , his Swastika-imprinted underpants ( during the scene in which he rapes Lenz ) , and even while mimicking the Fuehrer in front of a mirror ( parting his hair a ' la Hitler , putting the black comb above his lips as a makeshift moustache , and giving himself the Nazi salute ) . Surely it was no great stretch for him to go from this to Tinto Brass ' CALIGULA ( 1979 ) ! Worst of all , though , is the climax as a deranged and wounded McDowell turns up at the cabin ( after having miraculously survived an avalanche he caused himself ! ) and bloodily exterminates the remaining members of the group ? which transpires to be merely a delirious fantasy ? one final folly enacted in his own head , and given away really by being intercut with snippets from scenes that have gone on before ! ? and that he's the one to perish . In the face of all this , Michael J . Lewis ' sweeping score seems out of place ? especially when considering that the action sequences are too few and far between , and certainly nothing to write home about when compared to the typical war movies of its ilk .
WHICH WAY TO THE FRONT ? ( Jerry Lewis , 1970 )	I had watched this as a kid but , not being much of a Jerry Lewis fan , I had completely forgotten it ( not that it's in any way memorable ) . The film revolves around impersonation ( which seems to be in the curriculum of every comic star ! ) - in this case a German officer - and , while not as bad as Leonard Maltin claims ( awarding it a BOMB rating ) , it's not exactly classic stuff either - certainly leagues behind Chaplin's THE GREAT DICTATOR ( 1940 ) , even if comparably narcissistic ! Ironically , the scenes prior to the appearance of the would-be wacky General offer more felicities than the rather forced humor at Nazi expense ! The film was really Lewis ' last gasp during his heyday ; in fact , this proved to be his last vehicle to be released for 10 years ( it's painfully apparent here that his particular brand of foolishness wouldn't pass muster in the age of Mel Brooks and Woody Allen ) !
WOMEN OF THE WORLD ( Gualtiero Jacopetti , Franco Prosperi and Paolo Cavara , 1963 )	After a little over 5 years from its release , Blue Underground's " The Mondo Cane Collection " is still , for my money , the biggest scam in the history of DVD . It's not because the films themselves were not as " shocking " as they had been played up to be ( I had watched most of them on Italian TV already ) or because the discs were shoddily presented but for the reason that , after hyping their " 10 , 000 Limited Edition " status ? which doubtlessly duped many a serious film collector ( myself included ) into springing for the $120 set ? these same films ( indeed discs ) have subsequently , in 2005 and 2008 , been variously reissued by the same company under different combinations for half the price they were originally being offered for ! This deceit perhaps explains why it has taken me all this time to pop any of the 8 discs included in the original set into my DVD player for the first time ? although , as I said before , only 2 of them ( the title under review and the feature-length documentary on the duo of controversial film-makers ) had been completely unfamiliar to me . As it turned out , WOMEN OF THE WORLD was pretty blah as well ? which kind of increased my despondency about the whole bloody affair ! Anyway , what we have here is a disparate depiction of the plight of women around the world circa 1962 : from Israeli freedom fighters to Japanese pearl divers , from mature Hamburg whores to Swiss pain-free birth clinics , etc . Actually , watching the women from the exotic regions going about their strenuous daily work routine ( carrying heavy loads and so on ) while their lethargic husbands look impassively on , laze about or , worse still , put on make up and act queer , did provoke the occasional heckle from the undersigned but , I regret to say , it was mostly a rather dull ride . At least , the music ( by Riz Ortolani and Nino Oliveiro ) is , typically for like product , quite good . While on the Italian version , the occasionally witty narration is provided by one of the film-makers himself ( Jacopetti ) , the English translation ( which is also present on the disc and , inexplicably , it reverted to while I was watching ) is read by Peter Ustinov !
DOMINO ( Tony Scott , 2005 )	I have to admit up-front that the only reason I rented this one was the fact that it dealt with the unusual life as bounty hunter of the daughter of actor Laurence Harvey ; in this respect , Keira Knightley acquits herself well enough in the role ( even if her performance is more often posturing than genuine acting ) . Both the real-life Domino and her father are nicely acknowledged by the film ( at one point , THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE [ 1962 ] is showing on TV ) ; tragically , though , she died soon after filming wrapped ! All these various factors are reflected in the rating as , taken on its own merits , the film wouldn't even deserve as much . . . Above anything else , it's the overbearing flashiness of the technique adopted by director Scott ( who seems to approach every new film as if it were his first , where one could be excused for feeling the inclination to show off ! ) that almost kills DOMINO stone dead . Besides , undue emphasis on boring supporting characters ( Delroy Lindo's stereotyped and insufferable family - though their appearance on " The Jerry Springer Show " is a quite amusing , if irrelevant , passage - and those has-beens from " Beverly Hills 90210 " ) further negates any interest one might have in the proceedings .
ACQUASANTA JOE ( Mario Gariazzo , 1971 )	Like SARTANA IN THE VALLEY OF DEATH ( 1970 ) , I watched this via C'Est La Vie's R2 DVD and , in hindsight , both film and disc are of similar quality . The lead is Lincoln Tate in the title role of the bounty hunter pursuing Ty Hardin's band of Renegade Union soldiers ; Richard Harrison appears as one of the latter's associates who later double-crosses him . Having watched so many Spaghetti Westerns this past week , the films ' plots get intertwined in my mind ? and , frankly , I can't recall much of what this one was about ! ; I do know that Hardin's gang carries with it a cannon to aid in their bank robberies and that his leadership is challenged at one point by a bald-headed associate whom Tate eventually dispatches with a horde of arrows in the style of Akira Kurosawa's THRONE OF BLOOD ( 1957 ) . Hardin eventually joins forces with Tate to retrieve a stash of money hidden in a cave , and also involved is Hardin's half-breed ( and gun-toting ) woman ? who has her eyes on Tate as well . The director biography , included among the extras , makes some claim for him being a versatile film-maker but , personally , it's the first I've ever heard of him : his career spanned all sorts of genres from Spaghetti Westerns to crime thrillers , horror , sci-fi and even erotica ( as it turns out , he also made the sentimental drama THE BALLOON VENDOR aka THE LAST CIRCUS SHOW [ 1974 ] ? starring James Whitmore and Lee J . Cobb ? which , when released in Malta back in the day , proved a huge box-office success ) !
STAY AWAY , JOE ( Peter Tewksbury , 1968 )	After a few lean years , 1968 was a pretty swell time for Elvis : not only did he make that celebrated " Comeback " TV Special but he also became a father and starred in two pretty decent movies as well ? SPEEDWAY and LIVE A LITTLE , LOVE A LITTLE . Therefore , personally I can forgive him for the misstep that was STAY AWAY , JOE which , at best , emerges as an interesting misfire and is not all that bad considering . Sure , Burgess Meredith and Joan Blondell are indeed embarrassing ? as , respectively , a dopey Indian father to Elvis ' character and a bawdy bartender who has her eye on Mr . Presley too - but one is glad to see Elvis surrounded by top veteran Hollywood talent like Katy Jurado ( as Meredith's Mexican wife ) , the two Jones ? Henry and L . Q . - and Thomas Gomez who is particularly amusing as sarcastic Chief Thundercloud who is Meredith's stubborn father still donning his old chieftain clothes in the present day ! While there is a surprising ( if not unwelcome given their usual blandness ) lack of songs , there seems to be no shortage of free-for-all parties were the male Indians hit the bottle steadily while Presley practices his womanizing skills behind their backs ! As can be expected , the typically ' Western ' Arizona scenery is a major asset here and the sleepy , snoring bull gag is not only a good one but a major plot point . On the other hand , the climactic ' destruction of the house ' episode is one we've seen too often since and doesn't work too well here . . .
CAPTAIN APACHE ( Alexander Singer , 1971 )	Another low-grade International Western on the same lines as BAD MAN'S RIVER ( 1971 ; also with Lee Van Cleef and by writer-producer Philip Yordan , but a more satisfying flick all-round ) , A TOWN CALLED BASTARD ( 1971 ) and PANCHO VILLA ( 1972 ) ? all three of which I've watched fairly recently . Here , Van Cleef plays the title role of a Union soldier who , in spite of displaying the proud demeanor befitting his Indian blood , is seemingly nonplussed at being referred to as " Redass " by virtually everybody he meets ; he also gets to warble two songs on the soundtrack and is shown at one point wearing " classic " Indian warrior attire i . e . nothing but a piece of cloth to cover his private parts ! Carroll Baker , Stuart Whitman , Percy Herbert and a curiously uncredited Jess Hahn co-star , but the indifferent treatment of a confusing plot ? with a host of anonymous characters double-crossing each other throughout and climaxing in an aborted assassination attempt on the life of Ulysses S . Grant ! ? breed unmemorable results ; the whole thing is further sunk by a highly inappropriate rock score and the wrong widescreen aspect ratio utilized for the transfer of the R2 DVD edition I rented .
ZORRO THE FOX ( Guido Zurli , 1968 )	Disposable Italian-made adventure of the popular swashbuckling hero which actually plays like a Spaghetti Western ( these were all the rage at the time ) ? not , in itself , a bad thing but the treatment is strictly uninspired ! For what it's worth , bland ( and blonde ) leading man Giorgio Ardisson had already played the character in THE MASQUED CONQUEROR aka ZORRO AT THE Spanish COURT ( 1962 ) ; the heroine , then , is played by Femi Benussi ( though she's given very little to do ) and the villain by Giacomo Rossi-Stuart . The tone is typically light-hearted ? but the comic relief supplied by Sergeant Gomez ( this must have looked at the Disney TV series for inspiration rather than the 1940 Hollywood classic ! ) and a couple of peones , one of whom is perennially coming up with crackpot idioms to make a point , who always seem to get in the way somehow ! For once , rather than have the common people rise up against the tyrants , here it's the noblemen targeted by the ambitious Rossi-Stuart and the Alcalde of a neighboring town , who join Zorro in the good cause ; with this in mind , the climax is O . K . as a multitude of Zorros appear on the scene to confuse the villains . If anything , the swordfights throughout are handled with reasonable energy ? though it all ends on an extremely silly note ? with Zorro's pet carrier pigeon promising us further exploits of the Californian avenger ( which , needless to say , never came to pass , at least in this company ) !
SABAKA ( Frank Ferrin , 1954 )	I only watched this film due to Boris Karloff's presence ; however , I don't know why he even bothered as his supporting role here gives him precious little to do ! Still , this juvenile Indian adventure is harmless enough - and mercifully short . Despite being filmed on location , it's pretty obvious that most of its jungle sequences featuring wild animals are actually stock footage ! I have to say , though , that for a kiddie film it's unusually mean-spirited : animals and human beings alike get burned alive , while Victor Jory as one of the members of a fire-worshipping cult is cruelly dispatched by his high priestess ( played by June Foray , more familiar to film and TV buffs as a voice artist in animation , and the only one who manages to enter into the spirit of the thing ) by leading him straight into the grip of a deadly cobra ! By the way , the lead character is named Gunga Ram ( I wonder how they ever came up with that one ? ) ! !
A SPECIAL COP IN ACTION ( Marino Girolami , 1976 )	The Italians were second to none in virtually inventing new sub-genres by subverting to their own terms the conventions of classic Hollywood cinema ; thus , after the Peplum ( Epics ) , Gothic ( Horror ) , Spaghetti ( Westerns ) and Giallo ( Thriller ) , the 1970s ushered in the era of the Poliziotteschi which was basically an Italian version of DIRTY HARRY ( 1971 ) - although , to be fair to them , the seeds of the genre had been sown a few years earlier . Astonishingly there were practically innumerable similar movies made between 1966-80 , a phenomenon which can easily be attributable to Italy's tumultuous political climate rife with corruption and kidnappings which marked the 1970s . Admittedly , I used to be very skeptical about the worthiness of these films ( something which held true for the mainstream Italian film industry itself at the time ) but having now gotten a fair share of them under my belt , I have to say that I've changed my stance somewhat . This is the final entry - following VIOLENT ROME ( 1975 ) and VIOLENT NAPLES ( 1976 ) - in the " Commissario Betti " trilogy , with Maurizio Merli ( the poor man's Franco Nero ) gnashing his teeth throughout the film at untouchable " honest " businessman John Saxon ; here , the hero even shares an unconvincing romance with the sister of a kidnapped child . While it certainly features plenty of action , ensuring an unrelenting pace and occasional excitement ( though I would say that , ultimately , it provides one chase too many ! ) , the film is nothing really special - the English title notwithstanding - and , worse , virtually interchangeable with any other of its ilk . . . apart from the unexpected downbeat ending which , apparently , was a deliberate act on the part of director Girolami ( who here actually uses the pseudonym Franco Martinelli ! ) because he had been bypassed for the second installment ; not having watched the first entry in the series , I can't comment on its quality but VIOLENT NAPLES - directed by the more highly-profiled Umberto Lenzi - is certainly superior to the third ! !
RUNAWAY ( Michael Crichton , 1984 )	I recall this being released theatrically and even an Italian-TV broadcast of it some time later ; being available for rental on DVD locally and myself a sci-fi fan , it was inevitable that I’d check it out – even if it doesn’t have much of a reputation within the genre ( in spite of writer / director Crichton’s involvement , author of such effective yet diverse fare as THE ANDROMEDA STRAIN [ 1970 ] , WESTWORLD [ 1973 ] , THE TERMINAL MAN [ 1974 ] , COMA [ 1978 ] and JURASSIC PARK [ 1993 ] ) . This is one of a number of early 1980s sci-fi actioners – including TRON ( 1982 ) , BLUE THUNDER ( 1983 ) , WAR GAMES ( 1983 ) , THE LAST STARFIGHTER ( 1984 ) , etc . – which seemed to promote technology , often at the expense of narrative and characterization , but which evoke tremendous nostalgia for someone who was a kid at the time . Still , the film serves as a reminder that cinema was in a definite rut throughout the decade – when you had to rely on a T . V . star for the lead ( MAGNUM P . I . ’s Tom Selleck ) and a rockstar for the villain ( Gene Simmons , bassist of KISS ) ! In itself , though , it’s harmless enough and certainly enjoyable – even if the plot ( once all the scientific jargon and gadgetry is by-passed ) is pretty routine . The action sequences ( plentiful in number ) are O . K . if a bit silly – such as the situation where Selleck has to save a hostage infant from a squat gun-toting robot gone amok , Simmons shooting missile-like bullets , a car chase in which the passengers change vehicles in motion ( a stunt which has just been replicated in the latest Indiana Jones adventure ! ) , etc . Plotwise , we get complications in the relationship between widower Selleck and his immediate family ( comprising a young son and a garrulous robot maid ! ) – which set in with the appearance of his new ( and naturally female ) cop partner ; Selleck’s also fraught with vertigo ( in the past , this had cost the life of a number of people when he backed out of following a suspect because of the heights involved ) – a hindrance which is predictably played upon during the climax , where he has to take on Simmons’ army of acid-spouting robot spiders in an elevator at a construction site ! The film seemed to have its heart in the right place – what with employing cinematographer John A . Alonzo and composer Jerry Goldsmith ( though his contribution results in a shoddy electronic score ) , both of whom had worked on the noir revival par excellence CHINATOWN ( 1974 ) – though conditions were hardly as congenial this time around . . .
THE BANDIT OF ZHOBE ( John Gilling , 1959 )	Surprisingly enough , this proved to be a totally routine desert adventure from many of the same people behind ZARAK ( 1956 ) , of which THE BANDIT OF ZHOBE is only a pale shadow ; while no classic in itself , the inherent campiness of the earlier film rendered it irresistible ? but that has been replaced here by relentless dullness ( the extremely faded print I watched certainly did not help matters ) ! Victor Mature once again makes for a wooden ( and , having had his family murdered , humorless ) lead ; incidentally , the narrative spends more time with the obligatory young couple ( Anthony Newley [ ! ] and Anne Aubrey ) ? though Norman Wooland more or less serves the same function that Michael Wilding did in ZARAK . The writer-director of this one had actually written the latter and would return again to this milieu for Hammer's THE BRIGAND OF KANDAHAR ( 1965 ; which I may be watching soon at the same venue which hosted the screening of THE BANDIT OF ZHOBE itself ) . Incidentally , I have also just acquired KILLERS OF KILIMANJARO ( 1959 ) , yet another Warwick production centering around a fading Hollywood star ( Robert Taylor ) ? but also featuring the aforementioned Newley and Aubrey . Anyway , to get back to the film at hand : at a trim 80 minutes , I suppose it makes for passable unassuming entertainment but is also utterly forgettable ; for the record , it does climax in a lengthy ( and reasonably exciting ) skirmish ? even if the low-budget involved meant that the same sets as ZARAK would have to be used ( and probably some of its action footage as well ) ! As usual with this company , reading the credits I could not help but notice how producer Albert R . Broccoli , story writer Richard Maibaum and cinematographer Ted Moore would be far more inspired when they set out to make the initial James Bond extravaganzas a mere 3 years later ( by the way , a regular of that series , Walter Gotell , is the chief villain here who mortally wounds Mature at the finale but is himself despatched by the now understanding Wooland ) . For what it is worth , the biggest laugh this film got from the five-man audience who were watching it ( myself included , of course ) was when a heavy-set Indian henchman spat out what seemed like a bucketful of saliva at the British and clumsy soldier Anthony Newley almost slips in it ! !
THE DA VINCI CODE ( Ron Howard , 2006 )	Given all the controversy surrounding the film , the end result couldn't help being a disappointment - but , coming from Howard , I had no real expectations anyway ! The premise is intriguing in itself - personally , I wasn't bothered by its questioning of Christ's divinity and the possibility that a descendant of his may still be alive - but the plot is simply too complex to be absorbed in a single viewing ( I never read Dan Brown's novel ) . Reportedly , it's a pretty faithful adaptation of the source material but this results in a lot of padding ( too many stops for exposition , including needless character development ) and , consequently , gross overlength for what should essentially be a gripping conspiracy thriller . With regards to performances , while I'm not usually a fan of Tom Hanks I didn't mind him all that much here ( although his hairstyle was an eyesore ! ) , liked Audrey Tatou and Ian McKellen was typically imposing - but the rest ( Jean Reno , Alfred Molina and especially a ludicrous turn from Paul Bettany ) were quite boring ! What had been the film's most discussed sequence prior to its release - Jesus ' wedding , actually shot in Malta - was barely seen in the released version ! I wonder if there was any pressure on the film-makers for this scene to be removed and , hopefully , it will be included as part of an eventual DVD edition . . .
History Of Postwar Japan As Told By A Bar Hostess ( Shohei Imamura , 1970 )	I was looking forward to following up my small Imamura retrospective with the 3-hour long THE PROFOUND DESIRE OF THE GODS ( 1968 ) , but I had to abort my VHS viewing after the first 10 minutes because the tape was mangled ( which , had I been aware of it , I would certainly have rerecorded the film when it turned up again recently during the " After Hours " programme on Italian TV ) ! In this respect , I have to agree with Michael Elliott's preference of DVD to VHS as one need only turn over the disc to know if it's scratched or not , but with VHS you cannot know beforehand in what state the tape is going to be ! ! So , I had to make do with the next entry in the Imamura canon that I had scheduled to watch . Well , it turned out to be as dreary and unappetizing as the film's very title would suggest , treating as it does events which would mostly only be familiar to Japanese people anyway . As a matter of fact , only the various scenes of military conflict and political turmoil held some measure of interest for me ; indeed , the picture comes off as a very tedious whole , demonstrating that few film-makers can successfully make the leap into the field of documentary ( and , frankly , only Werner Herzog comes to mind at the moment ) .
THE BEASTMASTER ( Don Coscarelli , 1982 )	I had rented this on VHS as a kid but did catch snippets of the film again on TV while in Hollywood in late 2005 / early 2006 . It's one of a handful of sword-and-sorcery titles made around the early 1980s : incidentally , I watched a number of these last Christmas ( Arnold Schwarzenegger's three " Barbarian " efforts , ATOR ? THE FIGHTING EAGLE [ 1982 ] , THE SWORD AND THE SORCERER [ 1982 ] , etc . ) but this is probably the only one that will make it this year . Although I was aware of its availability as a Special Edition DVD from Anchor Bay , I eventually acquired it from ulterior sources but , ironically , my copy sported a compromised aspect ratio which squashed the characters somewhat and no manner of fiddling with the picture settings on both my DVD and TV remote had any effect on remedying the situation ! Anyway , it's a typical if not exceptional entry in its sub-genre ( of which I was clearly fonder upon first viewing ) ? though possessing stronger visuals ( shot by Stanley Kubrick regular John Alcott , no less ) than plot or characterization ; we also get the obligatory rousing score ( courtesy of Lee Holdridge ) and which I actually still recalled from the time of my first viewing all those years ago ! As always , here we have the heir to a throne ( Marc Singer , best-known for the V sci-fi TV series of the mid-1980s and which I now own in its entirety i . e . 3 distinct variants ) fighting the usurper ( Rip Torn ) and helping a besieged people ( including love interest Tanya Roberts ? from the " Charlie's Angels " TV series but who'd later graduate to her own mythic character i . e . SHEENA [ 1984 ] , which I also saw for the first time last January ) . As the title suggests , Singer is able to communicate telepathically with animals ? so that an eagle , a black tiger and a couple of amiable mongoose are constantly being called upon in his aid . However , weird creatures also abound : Torn's ugly but oddly sensuous witches ( clearly a nod to Shakespeare's " Macbeth " ) ? though he's himself fitted with a hooked nose and wicked eyebrows ? as well as a group of imposing eagle worshippers bestowed with cape-like wings behind which they're able to crush a person to death ! Following Torn's demise ? when Singer disrupts a sacrificial rite ? our heroes have to contend with ( and naturally triumph over ) another invading group : these had earlier exterminated the inhabitants of Singer's village , including his guardian , and are led by an imposing masked figure ( a ' la the James Earl Jones from the first Conan movie ) but whose identity is , bafflingly , never divulged . In fact , for all the film's adult-oriented elements ( read sexiness ? as in the afore-mentioned witches and a gratuitously naked Roberts having a riverside bath ) , the film mostly comes off as a child-like retread of CONAN THE BARBARIAN ( 1982 ) !
The Mummy's Tomb ( 1942 ) :	When I first watched this , some 4 years ago , I remember being very disappointed with it and recall labeling it a lazy overall effort , especially as it heavily borrowed footage not only from the previous film - THE MUMMY'S HAND - but also FRANKENSTEIN ( 1931 ) , BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1935 ) and THE WOLF MAN ( 1941 ) for its mob scenes at the climax ! However , coming back to it now - and despite having just watched the other " Kharis " films - I found it to be quite enjoyable , atmospheric and competently handled ( especially during Chaney's various rampages and the fiery finale ) . It was nice to see Dick Foran , Wallace Ford and George Zucco ( why on Earth did he wait 30 years to exact his revenge ? ! ) reprise their roles from THE MUMMY'S HAND , if only briefly , as it was to have Mary Gordon - Mrs . Hudson of Universal's contemporaneous " Sherlock Holmes " series - as one of Chaney's victims . As for Chaney himself , I thought that his first stab at the role wasn't bad at all : suitably brutish when required but with a hint of emotion seeping through the wrappings on occasion to provide a balance ( especially when Turhan Bey , yet another misguided High Priest of Karnak , is liable to jeopardize their ' mission ' of restoring Princess Ananka to life by conveniently falling for leading lady Elyse Knox ) .
THE COSSACKS ( Viktor Tourjansky and Giorgio Rivalta , 1960 )	Some time ago , I'd watched the above-average peplum THE MONGOLS ( 1961 ) , co-directed by Andre ' De Toth and action sequences helmed by Riccardo Freda ; back then , I had written that it was probably made in the wake of THE VIKINGS ( 1958 ) and that more epics in this vein followed ? with the film under review being one of them . Interestingly , the father / son antagonism plot line here anticipates another favorite Hollywood spectacle ? TARAS BULBA ( 1962 ) ? though that was actually based on a famous Nikolai Gogol novel which had already been filmed at least twice before ; anyway , the results in this case ? the narrative being slightly unbalanced by pageantry and local color ? were rather patchy ( though not without interest ) . The latter , in fact , is mostly due to surprisingly nuanced leads ( Edmund Purdom and John Drew Barrymore , both ex-Hollywood alumni who eventually became peplum regulars ) . The dual romance for the young protagonist ( the Cossack leader's offspring had been bartered during an earlier struggle and , in the interim , received his education at a Russian military academy ) is something of a cliché , but it's not too intrusive under the circumstances . In any event , coming into play towards the end ? when Barrymore is returned to his people so as to dissuade Purdom from keeping up his " holy war " ? the girlish rivalry complements the tense situation between father and son ; besides , with Barrymore having at one point saved the hated Czar's life , the Cossack leader publicly disowned him in favor of a devoted warrior / follower ? who , naturally , doesn't appreciate now the unexpected re-appearance on the scene of the ' prodigal son ' ! The film is typically climaxed by a sweeping battle ? with the Cossacks , greatly outnumbered , ending up decimated ? which is quite well done as these things go ; however , it's undeniably enhanced by the inevitably tragic ( and commendably abrupt ) denouement ? as Purdom is forced to shoot down Barrymore ( whom he perceives a coward for wanting to throw in the towel ) ? but soon realizes it has been a desperate , unfortunate and merely futile gesture ! By the way , THE COSSACKS has some notable credentials : co-scriptwriter Damiano Damiani and cinematographer Massimo Dallamano would both graduate to a director's position , ditto camera operator Sergio D ' Offizi became a d . p . and work on such interesting and stylish fare as DON'T TORTURE A DUCKLING ( 1972 ) ; besides , the supporting cast includes the likes of " special guest star " Massimo Girotti ( from OSSESSIONE [ 1943 ] and THEOREM [ 1968 ] , appearing briefly as Alexander II ) , Giorgia Moll ( from CONTEMPT [ 1963 ] , as Barrymore's Russian girlfriend ) and Pierre Brice ( the hero of the fine Gothic horror MILL OF THE STONE WOMEN [ 1960 ] , playing Moll's childhood friend and Barrymore's military companion ) .
KIBAKICHI ( Tomoo Haraguchi , 2004 )	The Japanese had already tackled King Kong , Frankenstein and Dracula in the past ? so it was only a matter of time before an Asian Werewolf movie came along ! I had never heard of the film before chancing upon it at the local DVD rental outlet , but the prospect of a Werewolf Samurai seemed too unique to pass by . Actually , what little monster action there is , is restricted to the opening and climactic sequences but they are both busy , well-staged fights that satiate one's expectation of what a Samurai film should provide . The rest of it is a muddled and rather dreary narrative about the Yokai ( monster people ) being ousted by the deceitful humans once and for all , with our hero eventually getting engaged by the leader of the former as one of his henchmen . Again , the opportunity for creative make-up design is not taken to the fullest and falls far short of other foreign ' monster parade ' shows like , say , the Russian VIY , OR SPIRIT OF EVIL ( 1967 ) . What the film does get utterly right is its faithful recreation of the Samurai era which admirably make the film look , sound and feel like something from the early 1960s ! The hero is a taciturn loner with long , shaggy hair who gets to interact ( but , thankfully , not get romantically involved ) with a human girl adopted by the Yokai leader long ago . Apparently , the film proved successful enough on its home ground to be followed by a sequel that very same year !
SHOCK ( Alfred Werker , 1946 )	While I'd have been interested in this film regardless , given its genre ( Noir ) and star ( Vincent Price ) , I knew not to expect much from it in view of Leonard Maltin's dismissive rating . With this in mind , I was amazed to see this programmer restored and released as part of Fox's vaunted Noir series on DVD ahead of much more renowned titles ? but that may have had more to do with the fact that SHOCK has lingered in Public Domain hell for a long time , and the studio was eager to ' reclaim ' its property by preparing an edition that was clearly superior to every other available version ( with respect to print quality , transfer and supplements ) and sell it at a very affordable price ! That said , I've purchased all of Fox's Noir titles save 3 ? SHOCK itself , VICKI ( 1953 ) and NIGHTMARE ALLEY ( 1947 ; though I do own this via the superior " Masters Of Cinema " R2 disc ) ? but , ashamedly , I must admit that I've yet to check out any of them ( and there are even 5 first-time viewings in there ! ) ? Anyway , after this longish introduction , let's talk about the film proper : watchable ( being a mere 70 minutes long helps ) , not uninteresting in itself ( if decidedly unoriginal ? the doctor who's been commissioned to help restore a girl's sanity is actually the perpetrator of the murder which drove her into a catatonic state to begin with ! ) and quite atmospheric ( a surreal dream sequence is nicely done and the film's highlight is the rather irrelevant sequence where a homicidal inmate attacks the head nurse in the heroine's room one stormy night ) but it's also very formulaic , thus predictable every step of the way ( who could Price be but the villain , albeit a fairly sympathetic one ? ) ? and , ultimately , too low-key for its own good ( the leading lady is a non-entity ? which considerably dilutes the suspense ? the femme fatale bland and the abrupt wrap-up concludes the film on something of a whimper ) ! I watched this via the Madacy " Vincent Price Collection " DVD which , ostensibly , also includes 3 other PD titles featuring the iconic star ? THE BAT ( 1959 ) and THE LAST MAN ON EARTH ( 1964 ) are there , yes , but HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL ( 1958 ) is nowhere to be found , despite its name appearing on the " Main Menu " screen ( admittedly , the disc I have is a DVD-R and the film may not have been replicated due to a technical glitch ) ?
THE SPIRAL ROAD ( Robert Mulligan , 1962 )	Rock Hudson seemed to want to alternate his trademark comedy and action vehicles with more meaningful pieces ; this was one of them , but it's possibly the most wrong-headed he ever embarked upon ! Sprawling but heavy-going and overlong , it tells of an atheist doctor's experiences in Java ; from the start , the script makes it known that his motivation wasn't really compassion for human suffering , but rather to make a name for himself by chronicling the 20-year long research on leprosy by eminent but tough-as-nails medical authority Burl Ives ! As expected , the narrative takes an episodic nature ? a visit to a leper colony , the unexpected arrival of the hero's fiancée ( Gena Rowlands ) , a fellow doctor driven to madness and Hudson's own brush with the dangerous witch doctor ( Reggie Nalder ! ) responsible , Ives ' long-running friendly rivalry with a billiard-playing royal native ? complemented by Russell Harlan's gleaming widescreen photography and Jerry Goldsmith's rather over-the-top exotic score and obviously culminating in Hudson's ' salvation ' . While there's a lot of melodrama going on ( threatening the couple's relationship and the hero's own professional integrity ) , the film also features some incongruous injections of comedy ( particularly Ives ' deliberate slapsticky disruption of a gala dinner ) ? but , frankly , it's at its most unintentionally hilarious when Hudson counters missionary ( a completely white-haired Geoffrey Keen ! ) ' s earnest counsel with cynical witticisms and his own unconvincing shaggy appearance when deranged ( apparently , this scene even found its way into the opening of the legendary " Monty Python's Flying Circus " [ 1969-74 ] TV comedy series ! ) .
NIGHT MONSTER ( Ford Beebe , 1942 )	Having become acquainted with most of the classic Universal horror films at a very early age , it's rather surprising that it has taken me much longer to get to the lesser entries in the cycle . Thankfully , the Universal Monster Legacy and the Bela Lugosi Collections have introduced me to some elusive titles but , still , there are a few which , perhaps because of their obvious inferiority , are still sadly missing and the film under review here is just one of them ? First things first : while Bela Lugosi and Lionel Atwill never quite enjoyed the ( well-deserved ) renown Boris Karloff got from his horror performances - and let's not forget that both of them were somewhat on the skids at the time this film was made due to private scandals - I wasn't expecting to see them appearing in such thankless roles , especially since their names were shown above the title in the credits ! I guess anyone who engages Lugosi as a butler deserves all he gets ( it's also amusing to me that despite living in America for almost 30 years , Lugosi never managed to drop his very thick Hungarian accent which , I suppose , is one of his charms ) and Atwill is an impatient surgeon who's mercilessly picked on by one of his colleagues ( for no reason I could clearly discern ) and whose untimely departure from the " old dark house " of the movie brings about his death ? with more than half the film yet to unfold ! Lugosi , apparently , also gets his in the film's fiery climax ? or does he ? For being the nominal star of the film , the carelessness with which his fate is ( or rather not ) dealt with is disappointing to say the least . For the rest , the film introduces too many characters too quickly so that it wasn't until some time into the picture that I was able to make heads or tails of who was engaged to do what in the creepy mansion . Some of these characters were engaging , especially Nils Ashter's spiritualist , Leif Erickson's boorish chauffeur , Robert Homans ' investigating constable and Don Porter's whodunnit writer but some of the others ( like Fay Helm's disturbed Margaret , Doris Lloyd's scheming housekeeper and , fatally , Ralph Morgan's crippled master of the house ) were boring or downright annoying . Then , the sheer regularity of the murders ( which happen literally moments apart at times ) gives it a repetitive quality which does the film no favors , especially since none of the houseguests ever seem to be aware of anything remotely wrong happening in the very next room ! Still , for all that , the film is never less than entertaining and I can see it improving with further viewings ; after all , it is crammed full of that typical Universal fog-laden ambiance which , for obvious reasons ? not least the usage of the same title background and parts of the music score ? reminds one of THE WOLF MAN ( 1941 ) and other Universal horror fare of the period . Besides , even if the film is not able to capitalize fully on it , its premise of mentally growing artificial limbs is an intriguing one and , again , not too dissimilar from the one explored in DOCTOR X ( 1932 ) .
THE BLOOD BEAST TERROR ( Vernon Sewell , 1967 )	Peter Cushing used to refer to THE BLOOD BEAST TERROR as the worst film of his prolific career , and this was enough to keep me from getting the SE DVD of it on R2 from DD Video when I purchased four more second-tier British horrors from the same outfit last year - namely , ISLAND OF TERROR ( 1966 ) , NIGHT OF THE BIG HEAT ( 1967 ) , CURSE OF THE CRIMSON ALTAR ( 1968 ) and THE CREEPING FLESH ( 1973 ) . Eventually , it was shown last Saturday night on an Italian TV channel in its original language with forced Italian subtitles , and I really couldn't let an occasion like that pass me by . . . Tigon was always seen as a cut-rate Hammer and this film was clearly inspired by the latter's THE REPTILE ( 1966 ; one of the Bray Studio outfit's best of the decade , and which THE BLOOD BEAST TERROR can't hope to match ) - where , again , we find a female monster ' created ' by her eminent but misguided entomologist father ( Robert Flemyng ) . The monster design ( we're dealing with a giant Death's Head Moth here ) isn't too bad , actually , and it's thankfully not over-exposed during the course of the film : besides , Wanda Ventham's character is interesting in that she doesn't bemoan her fate as usually happens in such genre efforts - rather , she's single-minded in seeking out her prey among Flemyng's naïve students and rugged helpers around the estate , all of whom are easily swayed by her attractiveness ! Aided by a fine score from resident Tigon composer Paul Ferris , the film creates a reasonable Gothic atmosphere throughout ( with , at one point , even an amateur rendition / parody of a typical Grand Guignol performance set up by the students - and also featuring Ventham - in Flemyng's house ) . The script , incidentally , is by Hammer alumnus Peter Bryan ( THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES [ 1959 ] , THE BRIDES OF Dracula [ 1960 ] and THE PLAGUE OF THE ZOMBIES [ 1966 ] ) and , while offering no real surprises , it's quite enjoyable for what it is - certainly better than its reputation would suggest ! That said , the monster's come-uppance in an unconvincing and abrupt fiery ending is one of the lamest of its kind I've ever come across . . . Cushing - with his customary fastidiousness and dry wit intact - is always a pleasure to watch ; Flemyng , too , offers his unhinged medico routine - and it's interesting , to say the least , to witness this clash of Hammer and Italian horror acting styles ! Notable among the supporting cast is Roy Hudd as a scurrilous morgue attendant . At this stage , I don't know whether I'll eventually spring for the R2 DVD - since it contains a 25-minute career overview with Ventham - but , if it's ever discounted again by one of my British retailers of choice ( and provided that it hasn't gone out-of-print by then ! ) , it's worth considering . Another DD Video title I've long neglected is THE DEVIL'S MEN ( 1976 ) , incidentally , also starring Peter Cushing - and , even though it's an equally maligned horror effort , I have to admit that I'm a sucker for such things . . .
KISS ME MONSTER { U . S . And Spanish Versions } ( Jesus Franco , 1967 )	The follow-up to TWO UNDERCOVER ANGELS ( 1967 ) is even less successful than its predecessor but , again , it's enjoyable enough along the way to be generally palatable . The plot of this one is even more nonsensical than that of the first film : as a matter of fact , in the featurette accompanying TWO UNDERCOVER ANGELS on the Blue Underground DVD , Franco himself calls it " surreal " and believes this to have been the reason why KISS ME MONSTER wasn't as popular as the original ! Anyway , here we have sci-fi rather than horror elements - the creation of superhuman beings , which actually makes the film's very title a misnomer , but is also not all that different from the central idea of Franco's earlier Al Pereira adventure ATTACK OF THE ROBOTS ( 1966 ) ! Besides , the leads themselves - Janine Reynaud and Rosanna Yanni - didn't seem quite as charming here : for one thing , they never get to wear the fetishistic " Red Lips " costume , despite going through an equal array of kitschy dresses throughout ; neither are their occasional asides to the audience in the first film retained for the follow-up . Also , their essential roles have been exchanged this time around - in TWO UNDERCOVER ANGELS , Reynaud assumed the damsel-in-distress persona ( being , basically , the brains of the outfit ) whom blonde bimbo Yanni managed to rescue in the nick of time ; the latter is now the one who suffers the indignity of being drugged and abducted , while the former does the bailing-out ! The remaining cast members are virtually the same as in TWO UNDERCOVER ANGELS ( including another cameo by Franco himself ) , but mostly playing new roles : Adrian Hoven turns heroic for this one , whereas Michel Lemoine has graduated from monster assistant to mad scientist . Once again , the English-language soundtrack provides some truly cringe-worthy moments - such as the awful dubbing of the songs warbled on guitar by a couple of old Spaniards . Let us now take a look at the alternate Spanish version : as can be deduced from the previous comments , the film is much better served by the Spanish dialogue . With respect to the editing , it's generally better than in EL CASO DE LAS DOS BELLEZAS : the re-arranging of scenes here is never quite as jarring as in the previous film ; there is , however , one notable mistake - with the apparent utilization of a different take in the Spanish variant during the scene in which Reynaud saves Yanni from the villains ' clutches , wherein one of these is shot dead by her in the U . S . version but not the Spanish . . . only to show his lifeless body slumped on the sofa seconds later ! Likewise , the alternate music score ( again by Fernando Garcia Morcillo ) suits the sequel better than the first film , given the lesser emphasis on pop-art references this time around in order to make way for an exploration into ancient Spanish culture - what with a subplot involving a secret society of Klansmen types and the " McGuffin " in the film , the all-important red case , concealed inside a windmill whose key resides in the notes on a sheet of music . The silly opening sequence to the U . S . version has been dropped ( but , then , the use of a different credit sequence for the Spanish print means that an effective transition from black-and-white into color had to be sacrificed as well - since a character in the film is named Vittorio Freda , which I assume to be a nod to Italian cult film-makers Vittorio Cottafavi and Riccardo Freda , it's possible that this gimmick was borrowed from the former's THE HUNDRED HORSEMEN [ 1964 ] ) ; gone , too , is an endless and irrelevant go-go number . The new footage includes some additional scenes in which the " Red Lips " duo are seen interacting with the police , as they recount to them the events of the film in flashback - but there's also one murder ( with the body inexplicably dumped in the heroines ' bedroom ) missing from the U . S . version , while the developed relationship in the Spanish print between two secondary characters helps to better delineate their individual loyalties . Besides , in spite of my limited understanding of the Spanish language , I caught a number of witty lines which were changed for the U . S . variant ( including an amusing reference to Franco's own recurring creation Dr . Orloff ! ) . The English-language version , however , does feature a few seconds of unconvincing gore not found in the Spanish counterpart . With regards to the Blue Underground DVD itself , here too the transfer does justice to the film's colorful visuals ; the Spanish version , however , wasn't up to the level of EL CASO DE LAS DOS BELLEZAS - for one thing , it seemed to be culled from two different prints , as the Aspect Ratio kept alternating ( sometimes in the same scene ! ) between 1 . 66 : 1 and Full-Frame . The Jess Franco interview on the Blue Underground disc wasn't focused on the film proper but rather a rambling piece ( albeit fascinating as ever ) about various topics - the relationship between psychedelia and drugs and that between censorship and pornography ; he even talks at length about his decidedly singular association with Orson Welles .
RED LIGHTS ( Cedric Kahn , 2004 )	While it starts off as typically overwrought melodrama , with a couple shouting in each other's face ( making the first half of the film fairly dull ) , it subsequently turns into a reasonably gripping thriller - highlighted by a couple of effective shock moments - with an especially ironic conclusion pretty much in the Claude Chabrol mode . The acting of the two leads is fine , Jean-Pierre Darroussin making the most of his unsympathetic character while Carole Bouquet , appropriately , plays a character named Helene ( after a number of heroines from Chabrol movies ) ; however , there is some unintentional hilarity during the husband's boozing odyssey , first by encountering a grating Irish rocker in a bar and later being beaten up by an escaped convict to whom he gives a lift in his car !
THE EYES OF THE MUMMY ( Ernst Lubitsch , 1918 )	I never expected to see a horror film directed by Ernst Lubitsch and , while this has been touted as such and is even listed in genre-related books , it's nothing of the kind ? and that makes it doubly disappointing for an all-round film-fan like myself ! Actually , I've seen little of the director's work made in Germany ( which includes only one major title , MADAME DUBARRY [ 1919 ] , also starring Pola Negri and Emil Jannings ) and none of his American Silents ? which means that , to me , Lubitsch has always been a master of the Talkie medium , so , bear than in mind ? Anyway , the title is indeed incidental to the main plot which , once again , concerns the vicissitudes of a romantic triangle ( Jannings , Negri and Harry Liedtke ) which can only end in tragedy . Jannings and Negri are Egyptians involved in a scam milking tourists out of their money , by having the girl lend her eyes to the " mummy " from inside an empty sarcophagus ! When a British lord and adventurer comes to visit , she falls in love and leaves with him to England . Needless to say , Jannings ? who , naturally , has feelings for Negri himself ? follows them ( conveniently in the employ of another English aristocrat and friend to Liedtke ) in order to exact his revenge . While the plot offers no surprises ( except , maybe , the fact that Jannings has a Svengali-like hold on Negri ) , it's also rather ordinarily handled ; indeed , here one finds scarcely any evidence of the much-renowned " Lubitsch " touch ! To be fair to the film , the famed Curse of King Tut's Tomb hadn't yet taken place ( that was in 1921 ) ? so , in all probability , the film was never intended as a horror film at all . Anyway , Jannings ? who's always worth watching in a larger-than-life manner ? is the best thing about the entire film ? but the melodramatic acting of Negri , a great star of the period , has dated badly and , indeed , she seems to do little throughout but faint ! ! As a matter of fact , as a means of amusing myself to counter the tedium of the film itself , as I was watching I imagined the actress discussing the shooting schedule with her director : Negri : " What's on the schedule for today , Ernst ? " Lubitsch : " You faint ! " The next day . Negri : " What's on the schedule for today , Ernst ? " Lubitsch : " You faint ! " Negri : " Oh ? " The next day . Negri : " Er - - Ernst , do I get to faint today as well , by any chance ? " Lubitsch : " Er ? I'm afraid so ! "
MOVING TARGET ( Sergio Corbucci , 1967 )	After director Corbucci made his mark with the seminal Spaghetti Western DJANGO ( 1966 ) , he didn't merely restrain himself to that genre ? though his work in the field is surely among the most highly regarded ( incidentally , I'll be delving for the first time into two more such efforts in the coming days ) . For this " Euro-Cult " outing , he changed the typical desert landscape in Almeria for the equally evocative streets and landmarks of Athens ; the film , in fact , is a generally lighthearted foray into contemporary espionage ? however , the results aren't nearly as rewarding as Corbucci's more individualistic ' horse operas ' ! To begin with , the American hero ( Ty Hardin ) is rather bland ? he's a notorious thief who's brought in by plane to serve a sentence in the Greek capital ; however , before he has even had time to put his feet on the ground , Hardin is ' kidnapped ' by Communist spies in order to retrieve a microfilm embedded in one of the teeth of a dead man ! A number of other entities soon reveal themselves to be just as interested in its contents ? including " Albanian " Gordon Mitchell and mysterious British agent Michael Rennie ; the only man the hero can trust is former associate Vittorio Caprioli ? playing a character called Pizza ( ! ) and currently the owner of a sleazy but popular nightclub in town ( with vivacious blonde stripper Graziella Granata as star attraction ) . Another girl is also involved ? Paola Pitagora ? who's introduced as a ' murder victim ' of Hardin's , with which the Communists can then blackmail him into acquiescence ! ; that said , she's an unwilling accomplice ? since the girl's infant nephew ( her deceased sister had been involved with the man in possession of the microfilm ) is being held behind the proverbial Iron Curtain . It's pretty convoluted stuff albeit reasonably engaging while it's on ? with plenty of double-crosses , chases ( especially effective when atypically set against the imposing ruins of the famed Acropolis ) , fistfights , shoot-outs , explosions , and what have you ? even if , in the long run , it emerges as little more than a footnote in the director's career ! The film turns a bit serious during its latter stages as both women are killed off , and Caprioli takes a severe beating from Mitchell and his thugs ; the narrative then concludes with a dual twist ? first revealing the identity of the chief spy , who's subsequently deported , but then we're shown that he has made off with a copy of the prized microfilm ( which , for what it's worth , involved fabricated evidence to incriminate a specific faction for a proposed coup d'etat to be executed by their rivals ! ) after all . The bouncy score by DJANGO , KILL ! ' s Ivan Vandor is notable ? as are the stylish end credits ( a characteristic element of spy sagas from this era ) .
The Harrad Experiment ( Ted Post , 1973 )	This was more or less the KINSEY ( 2004 ) of its day , though clearly quaint in comparison ; still , it is a measure of the times that the film caused a mild stir back then whereas KINSEY virtually made no ripples when it emerged ! Anyway , HARRAD is mildly interesting ( if perhaps too low-key to stay in the memory for long ) in delineating the forward-thinking / experimentation that occurred in sexual relationships at the end of the 1960s . Incidentally , I rented the film as part of a small tribute to its recently-deceased star James Whitmore : of course , the middle-aged actor does not get in on the action ( even if it is never particularly explicit ) ; Tippi Hedren , then , appears as his still-attractive spouse / collaborator ? who even catches the eye of the campus hunk ( Don Johnson , interestingly the long-time partner of Hedren's real-life daughter Melanie Griffith ! ) . The rest of the cast is filled with fresh faces ( including future comedian Bruno Kirby [ ! ] ? but especially notable is lovely and initially shy heroine Laurie Walters who , in her turn , is pursued by leering Robert Middleton at a nearby café ) . Unsurprisingly , partners get swapped ( whether intended or not ) which invariably cause heartbreaks , but there is also some cheap humor at the expense of a bespectacled and plump student . While director Post was more at home in action-oriented fare , he handles the delicate subject matter with directness and reasonable perception ; besides , the film looks good , sports a typical 1970s pop score ( one of the songs being performed by Johnson himself ) and , for what it is worth , was even followed a year later by a sequel , HARRAD SUMMER .
The Mad Doctor Of Market Street ( Joseph H . Lewis , 1942 )	As some of you may know , for the longest time I was only familiar with the more popular of the classic Universal horror / sci-fi films ; recently , however , I managed to get my hands on a number of their lesser and / or non-monster outings – needless to say , few if any of these proved as rewarding in the long run . . . though they were never less than entertaining , something which the vintage Hollywood product could always be relied upon to deliver . This , then , marks Lionel Atwill’s last starring role as a result of his fall from grace in a trial which exposed scandalous behavior in private – and which would subsequently relegate him to Poverty Row or virtually nothing parts in Universal chillers ! In any case , he gives the titular role his all – in fact , I don’t think I’d seen Atwill being so arrogant ( spouting lines such as " I’ll be the most important man to have ever walked the earth " with complete immodesty , as if it was second nature to him ! ) and wild-eyed since the delightfully Pre-Code MURDERS IN THE ZOO ( 1933 ) . Incidentally , I may be attributing undue importance to the fact but I wonder whether the script intended to give his character’s ‘control’ over death a religious undertone – at one point , Atwill mentions that he’ll be able to bring back to life someone who’d been dead for three days ( a reference to Jesus Christ ? ) , while the unwilling ‘guinea pig’ hero is buried in the rocks and the entrance to the tomb covered by a huge stone ( as we’re told in the Bible that Lazarus was ) . . . ! Not knowing all that much about the film beforehand , I was surprised to see this turn out to be more of a jungle adventure ( especially given the title ) – following the opening moments set in the city and a brief stint on board ship which , pretty soon , ends up submerged and the only six survivors eventually land on a tropical isle . Atwill is a " pseudo-doctor " whose notorious experiments with suspended animation ( recalling the Boris Karloff vehicle THE MAN WITH NINE LIVES [ 1940 ] ) has landed him in professional disrepute , not to mention in hot water with the Law – I’m sure the irony of the situation wasn’t lost on the beleaguered actor ! ; anyway , he flees on a cruise-liner traveling all the way to New Zealand and , as I said , ends up ashore in uncharted territory with a bunch of other passengers . This doesn’t stop him from continuing his experiments ( for one thing , finding the locals convenient and gullible subjects ) – actually , he’d been traveling incognito but , when the native leader’s woman goes into a coma from a heart attack , he can’t resist impressing them with his life-giving ‘magic’ . . . after which they name him " God Of Life " and , naturally , he appoints himself there and then supreme ruler of the island ( these obvious Fascist attributes more than anything expose it as a product of the war years ) ! The film falls into a category best described as comedy-horror or , if you like , horror comic ; neither element is really all that successful – though the former ( provided by Una Merkel , top-billed despite her character being clearly of secondary interest [ ! ] , and Nat Pendleton ) isn’t overly intrusive , the latter is too familiar to generate much suspense . . . while the jungle setting eschews the fog-laden atmosphere usually representing the ‘in-house’ Universal style ! The remaining members from the civilized world are a selfish ship’s officer who leaves the others behind when attempting to flee the isle in a canoe – only to be killed by a native , and the obligatory romantic couple ( Merkel’s niece and another former crew member of the sunken liner ) – typically , the two had gotten off on the wrong foot but are slowly drawn together . . . especially after Atwill is persuaded into taking a wife by the native woman he ‘resuscitated’ and , naturally , singles out the heroine for this role . By the way , the film’s biggest laugh is an unintentional one : during Atwill and Claire Dodd’s marriage , following the native custom , some doubt is deliberately thrown by his companions on the unethical activity he leads , which causes the celebrations to cease abruptly – at which , perplexed , Atwill asks the native leader to order his men to " dance . . . or something " ( as delivered by the actor in his inimitable high-strung fashion , it not only shows all too clearly the character’s disdain of their lot but definitely edges the film into camp territory ; I know I couldn’t stop giggling for a good five minutes afterwards ! ) . His status on the island takes further beating when the native who killed the escaping officer also turns up dead ; the hero – belatedly introducing himself as being well versed in medicine himself ( a plot point so contrived as to smack of lazy scripting ! ) – knows that Atwill’s miracles were performed on people who only had the semblance of death , so that he’ll never be able to reap results in this particular case ( though , up until this time , it was never intimated that he could be a charlatan but rather came across as typically misguided but genuinely obsessed ! ) and the natives will turn on him as a result . . . which they do in a fiery climax that barely registers ( incidentally , some rather important exposition in the fast-paced 61-minute film is entirely by-passed or taken for granted ) . Tying with my comments about the same director’s CRIMINALS WITHIN ( 1943 ) , which I’ve also just watched , Lewis’ hand is apparent here via his choice of odd angles on a number of occasions ( though the shot of an intense Atwill approaching the camera , holding a chloroformed cloth to subdue an intended victim , is unfortunately diluted through sheer repetition ! ) . By the way , the music for the film – credited solely to " Musical Director " Hans J . Salter – includes recognizable cues from Frank Skinner’s classic SON OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1939 ) score ( Universal shamelessly , and habitually , re-cycled these . . . as hardened genre fans are surely aware ! ) .
THE CARD PLAYER ( Dario Argento , 2004 )	I was among those who felt that Argento lost his touch after TENEBRAE ( 1982 ) , and that his output during the last 20 years or so was just a pale shadow of his best work ( with the truly lamentable 1998 version of THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA being the worst of all ) . While all these films contained some interesting elements , they failed to jell into a satisfying whole ; the same , therefore , can be said of his latest offering . THE CARD PLAYER was originally intended as a sequel to THE STENDHAL SYNDROME ( 1996 ) , which had starred the director's talented daughter Asia : however , in the interim she had turned her attention to directing small , personal films and at the time of the proposed shooting was staying in the U . S . ; so , the lead character's name and background had to be slightly changed to accommodate a new actress ? Stefania Rocca . Unfortunately , the days when Argento's unique visual style was alone worth the price of admission are long gone and , despite a few distinct touches here and there ( with the best sequence being when Rocca is stalked at night by the killer in her own house ) , THE CARD PLAYER looks ? and feels ? distressingly like the typical made-for-TV movie that fills up the tube's schedule in Italy virtually every week ( the fact that the film is considerably less gory than his earlier stuff , with the majority of the murders taking place off-screen , or that none of the cast members other than Rocca herself are well-known , let alone overseas , only adds to this impression ) ! At least , regular collaborators Claudio Simonetti ( music score ) and Sergio Stivaletti ( make-up effects ) are on hand to offer their consistently reliable input ? Anyway , the cat-and-mouse thriller plot ( once one gets over the silly premise that the Police would accept the challenge of a poker game with the killer , even if the prize is the life of a hostage ) is intriguing and compelling enough for the most part ? but characterization is alarmingly shoddy ( despite its attempt to create a romantic situation between Rocca and Liam Cunningham , the latter sent by the British Embassy in Rome to investigate the murders ) , while the eventual revelation and subsequent climax involving a speeding train are quite a disappointment ( though , from what little I recall of Argento's later work , at least OPERA [ 1987 ] and SLEEPLESS [ 2001 ] were also given lame endings ) !
SPLENDORI E MISERIE DI MADAME ROYALE ( Vittorio Caprioli , 1970 )	For those of you who were under the impression ( and I include myself among these ! ) that Italian star Ugo Tognazzi first played a gay character in the extremely popular LA CAGE AUX FOLLES ( 1978 ) , here comes this obscure and ultra-rare ( so much so that I came across it as a Divx ! ) little film to prove the contrary ! ! Unlike the later outing ( which spawned two lesser sequels ) , this is a comedy-drama rather than a farce : interestingly , the narrative even has elements of the thriller genre ( though these are mostly downplayed throughout in favor of characterization ) as the gay community here seems to have been targeted for murder – with the investigation being handled by debonair Maurice Ronet ( amusingly , he first meets Tognazzi by posing as a prospective client ! ) . The title character is none other than the name Tognazzi gives himself when doing his flamboyant drag act during private soirees regularly organized for pals of similar bent ; incidentally , his identification with this would-be historical figure is so complete that he conducts his conversation at such times exclusively in French ! His closest companion is played by Vittorio Caprioli , an amiable character actor excelling at cantankerous but worldly types – and who also happens to be the film’s co-writer / director ( none of his work in this department is very well-known , however ) . Anyway , Tognazzi is called upon by Ronet for information about his ‘beat’ ; this doesn’t sit well with his ‘colleagues’ ( since it eventually lands a number of them , involved in illegal activities . in the slammer ! ) , but the policeman keeps coming back for more – especially after Tognazzi himself seeks help from Ronet with respect to the abortion / incarceration / escape of his vivacious teenage ward ( " Euro-Cult " starlet Jenny Tamburi in her debut performance ) . The latter is actually the daughter of Tognazzi’s late male partner – who had left the girl when still a baby on his doorstep and vanished forever ! To be honest , as often happens , the gay subtext borders on the grotesque ( if not quite reaching the level of caricature ) – and the film’s mainstay are actually the sequences between anxious Tognazzi and carefree Tamburi , marked by both realism and unexpected tenderness , and the numerous ‘business’ meetings ( too often occurring unwisely in plain sight of their ‘victims’ ! ) between Tognazzi and Ronet . The film , in fact , ends with the former being ‘taken for a ride’ in full effeminate regalia – a scene which manages to generate reasonable tension and pathos . By the way , the credentials for this little-known effort are nothing short of remarkable – the co-scriptwriters are Enrico Medioli and Bernardino Zapponi ( frequent collaborators of Luchino Visconti and Federico Fellini respectively ) , the cinematography is by the award-winning Giuseppe Rotunno , Ruggero Mastroianni ( brother of star Marcello ) did the editing , while the score comes courtesy of Fiorenzo Carpi ( ZAZIE DANS LE METRO [ 1960 ] and SALON KITTY [ 1976 ] ) !
THE SPACE CHILDREN ( Jack Arnold , 1958 )	This was director Arnold’s penultimate of seven horror / sci-fi outings from the same decade and , in retrospect , the least of them . Its focus on children ( the title itself is ambiguous – since the kids don’t come from space but rather are ‘possessed’ by aliens into sabotaging a rocket-launching station ! ) draws parallels to later genre classics such as VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED ( 1960 ) and the unrelated THESE ARE THE DAMNED ( 1963 ) : like the former , the children here are able to influence the actions of their elders and , as in the latter , much of it takes place against a backdrop of remote cavernous surroundings . As for the alien itself , it’s nothing more substantial ( or imaginative ) than a growing , glowing glob ! Being just 68 minutes long , this undeniably earnest film can’t hope to fulfill its aspiration of being a profound anti-nuclear parable ; for one thing , the characters are mere stereotypes – an average American couple with their modest dreams and dilemmas , a bubbly yet cagey neighbor ( played by Jackie Coogan , of Chaplin’s THE KID [ 1921 ] and TV’s THE ADDAMS FAMILY fame ! ) , another’s a drunken boor who mistreats one of the boys and his mother , plus the requisite number of dedicated but callous scientists and military personnel . Actually , I was wondering all through the picture why the alien didn’t simply possess one of the parents or scientists – surely his attempts at persuading colleagues to halt the missile project would have had greater chance of success , since the children’s clandestine activities merely irritate the hell out of the people at the base engaged in such a secretive operation ! That said , unexplained events that occur – such as the driver of a fuel truck losing control of his vehicle or nominal hero Adam Williams losing his voice and the faculty to write when trying to divulge the presence of the alien to his superiors ! – come across as creepier when caused by innocent-looking children and , besides , their presence near the test site is more likely to be overlooked than rouse suspicion of any foul play . In the end , the film is tolerable ( the print , then , seemed to be culled from a TV screening – since the picture fades in and out every once in a while , sometimes even in mid-sequence , where the publicity spots may have been inserted – with a good deal of hiss on the soundtrack ! ) but rather uninspired and , what’s more , is defeated by the low-budget . Though genre expert Arnold had proved time and again what he was capable of doing , it suffers especially in comparison with the two DAMNED films mentioned above or even a third such title , CHILDREN OF THE DAMNED ( 1964 ) . . . which I actually need to re-evaluate myself , but recall being an underrated achievement on my sole viewing of it so far .
YOUTH WITHOUT YOUTH ( Francis Ford Coppola , 2007 )	Coppola’s first feature film in a decade was a much-anticipated event : while appropriately ambitious and undeniably intriguing , the end result is too often muddled and distinctly heavy-going ( demonstrating an obsession with philosophy and linguistics ) . The film’s running-time is divided between two interlocking stories : the first involving an old professor’s rejuvenation after being hit by a bolt of lightning ( the condition also unleashes a couple of doppelgangers which , having little real point , only confounds the issue all the more ! ) and the second the reincarnation of an Indian mystic into a girl who also happens to be the double of the learned man’s long-lost love ( the glitch is that , with each lapse into the former personality – regressing into ever more ancient forms of communication – the body of her current vessel ages ! ) . Casting – Tim Roth , Alexandra Maria Lara and Bruno Ganz ( the latter two both from DOWNFALL [ 2006 ] ) – is generally effective ; also making a good impression is Alexandra Pirici appearing as a German seductress / Nazi agent ( it appears that Hitler is interested in exploiting Roth’s predicament towards the proverbial creation of a new master race ! ) , while Matt Damon ( star of the director’s preceding effort , THE RAINMAKER [ 1997 ] ) turns up in a rather trivial cameo . Among the many European locations to which the narrative relocates from time to time is Malta – even if , since the fairly lengthy and important sequence wasn’t filmed over here , Coppola gets much of the geographical detail wrong ! At the end of the day , this is a film that clearly displays a sense of style throughout but which becomes increasingly weighed down by its own thematic pretensions .
JUDITH OF BETHULIA ( D . W . Griffith , 1914 )	This was something of a milestone ? denoting a leap for pioneer D . W . Griffith from his customary one or two-reelers to a then considerable length of 49 minutes in this version ( its length may vary on account of differing speeds utilized during projection of Silent movies ) as well as from a modern-day , or at least American , setting towards apparently unlimited scope . In that regard alone , JUDITH OF BETHULIA is worthy of attention ? but Griffith's Victorian sensibilities ( which he could never , or would not , shake off ) still ground it into the antediluvian quality of film-making which is perhaps the most common objection raised by certain viewers nowadays to watching Silent pictures ! Anyway , this was obviously inspired by the Old Testament tale in which a saintly woman sacrifices her dignity in order to release the Jewish people ( depicted as long-bearded stereotypes which would not go down well today ! ) from oppression by the Assyrian army : she ingratiates herself within the affections of King Holofernes , whom she gets drunk one night and decapitates ? after which the invaders disperse . Apart from a lengthy offensive outside the city walls , the running-time is padded-out with the plight of a young couple ( the boy is a brave warrior and the girl eventually enslaved inside the enemy camp ) and , also appearing from time to time , is Lillian Gish in a typical role symbolizing motherhood . Unfortunately , the print I acquired of this 95-year old title was extremely fuzzy ? rendering the elaborate and often chaotic visuals even harder to make out ? and it was accompanied besides by one of the most incongruous scores I have ever heard , approximating to a circus jingle ( complete with laugh track ! ) which one finds at its most jubilant when the on-screen events seem to demand emotions of an entirely different nature ! !
PARTS : THE CLONUS HORROR ( Robert S . Fiveson , 1979 )	I wasn't aware of this low-budget sci-fi effort before its SE DVD release on R1 from Mondo Macabro ; while I've amassed ? and been impressed with ? a considerable number of their releases , I somehow never got around to acquiring this ? even after all the publicity the film received when the people behind it sued the makers of THE ISLAND ( 2005 ) for plagiarism ! The film was fairly prescient for its time with its concern about the cloning of human beings ? here linked with a struggle for survival as a select few aim for immortality ( shades of the far superior SECONDS [ 1966 ] ) , and with a typically dystopian view of the futuristic ( and secluded ) cloning centre . While the handling is unassuming for the most part , the latter stages notch up reasonable suspense as the hero breaks out of the facility and goes out to the ' Promised Land ' ( America , of course ) to seek answers to his questions which the ' phone booth ' specially devised for this purpose seems reluctant to reply ? I don't recall THE ISLAND ( which was offered as an in-flight program while traveling from London to Los Angeles in November 2005 ! ) enough to note just how much of PARTS was actually ripped off ; suffice to say , though , that here we also get a blonde female clone who becomes the protagonist's accomplice / lover . Unfortunately , both leads are pretty bland ? which rather lessens audience involvement in their plight ( though it does contrive a downbeat ending which was pretty much a requisite of the cynical 1970s ) ; however , a couple of veteran ' name ' actors ( Peter Graves and Keenan Wynn ) turn up in the cast and they're given important roles to play ? Graves as a politician involved in the conspiracy and Wynn as an elderly man who helps the hero lift the lid off it . All in all , it's not too bad ? the recurring images of bodies in plastic bags are undeniably effective ? but hardly constituting a minor classic of the genre ? which is perhaps why Jerry Bruckheimer and Michael Bay thought they were safe in bringing its intriguing plot up-to-date without the need to acknowledge the earlier film !
TRANSPLANT ( Steno , 1970 )	Grotesque , crude but often quite funny knockabout farce which outstays its welcome and does not always fully realize its satirical aspirations . The film deals with an American billionaire , who having married a luscious young wife some 50 years his junior , often breaks into sobbing fits at the sight of her ; it does not take long for us to learn that all is not well between them in the bedroom stakes and he decides ( with the aid of a computer and a coterie of advisers ) to have an organ transplant . No prizes in guessing which organ he is needful of . . . ! After a series of false starts , they arrive to the three final prospective candidates , all of which are , coincidentally , Italian . One is an idiotic but clearly well-endowed brute who , having been " gang-raped " by a group of Swedish female sunbathers , wants nothing else except to go back for more , another is an unassuming family man who happens to have 14 kids and is constantly being harassed by his avaricious relatives into accepting the " job " and , thirdly , a nouveau pauvre Sicilian aristocrat who spends the time dodging his creditors by day and bedding their wives by night ! They are put to several strenuous tests to prove their maximum virility during the course of which they naturally start having second thoughts about going through with the operation . . . The film , co-written by popular Italian comic and latter-day TV personality Raimondo Vianello , stars Carlo Giuffre ' as the impoverished Latin Lover and the diminutive Renato Rascel who , playing the mild-mannered but prodigious father , has much more screen time than his " Special Guest Star " billing would suggest . Director Steno ( real name Stefano Vanzina ) was an expert handler of comics having dealt with the likes of Toto ' , Alberto Sordi , Nino Manfredi , Paolo Villaggio , Terence Hill , Bud Spencer , etc . - not to mention such Hollywood legends as Gloria Swanson , Orson Welles , Christopher Lee and Peter Ustinov ! - throughout his long and distinguished film career .
SWORD OF DAMASCUS ( Mario Amendola , 1964 )	I recall a childhood viewing on Italian TV of a film entitled IL LADRO DI DAMASCO ( which , officially , translates to THE THIEF OF DAMASCUS ) ; over the years , having completely forgotten it , I was under the impression that the movie I’d watched was the 1952 Sam Katzman-produced effort ( which actually drops the article ) co-starring Lon Chaney Jr . – but , all of a sudden , this Italian peplum turns up on TV and it turned out to be the film I’d come across eons ago . . . Given the ultra-modest credentials , I wasn’t really expecting anything here but was merely curious to re-acquaint myself with it , if anything for purposes of nostalgia . However , the film emerged to be a harmless enough outing and , all in all , quite a pleasant romp : in essence , the plot transposes the roguish hero of many an Arabian Nights tale to Ancient Rome – typically , he ( played by bland but affable Tony Russel ) gets into all kind of scrapes but is always able to get out of them unscathed with cunning and the help of his devoted pal ( Ferruccio Amendola once again , who also happened to be the nephew of the film’s writer / director ! ) The main villain is a treacherous Syrian merchant who , in cahoots with the Roman governor , seeks to be made the first local potentate in return for revealing the identity of the patriotic rebels . As usual for such juvenile fare , this slimy individual has also set his eyes and heart on the local beauty whose true love , it goes without saying , is our thieving hero . Predictably , she is abducted to the former’s palace and is ingeniously saved by the comically black-faced and acrobatic intervention of Russel and Amendola ( who , in making up their gibberish Negrospeak , contrive to include contemporary Italian musical fads like " Ully Gully " and " Dadaumpa " ) ! ! The elaborate climax involves a free-for-all confrontation between Romans and Syrians and , when all seems lost ( including Russel’s head to the executioner ) , a tell-tale bodily scar reveals the thief’s true patrician lineage !
TENDER SCOUNDREL ( Jean Becker , 1966 )	I mistook this colorful , location-filled adventure fluff for a light-hearted caper - and , therefore , I couldn't help being disappointed by the lack of a definite plot and the general silliness of the whole enterprise ! Becker is the son of Jacques Becker - who had made classics like CASQUE D'OR ( 1952 ) , TOUCHEZ PAS AU GRISBI ( 1954 ) and LE TROU ( 1960 ) - but he demonstrates little of his father's attention to detail , where the style actually served the plot and the characters rather than being merely surface gloss . In fact , the film leans completely on the charms of leading-man Jean-Paul Belmondo - who's accompanied off-screen by a bouncy Michel Legrand score and on it by the likes of Robert Morley , Jean-Pierre Marielle , Philippe Noiret and Marcel Dalio . . . not forgetting a bevy of beauties ( though second-billed Stefania Sandrelli is wasted and actually appears only in the film's final third ) , including Orson Welles ' future wife Oja Kodar ! I'd still love to watch Becker's award-winning erotic drama ONE DEADLY SUMMER ( 1983 ) , starring luscious Isabelle Adjani . . .
THE BRIDGE IN THE JUNGLE ( Pancho Kohner , 1971 )	Basically a plot-less mood-piece , this obscure film was adapted from a novel by the mysterious B . Traven - best-known for THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE , which John Huston ( the star of THE BRIDGE IN THE JUNGLE ) had made back in 1948 . While there's some pleasure to be had from observing the everyday details of the unhurried lifestyle in a small Mexican village ( especially via the location photography and an evocative score ) , it's not enough to sustain feature-film length . Besides , though the first half seems to be setting up an eventual crocodile hunt - so that the film would turn into some form of an adventure , the proceedings are completely derailed by the endless search for a missing child ! Still , the ' magical ' way - through shaman Chano Urueta , the director of the notorious THE BRAINIAC ( 1961 ) , here hired for his thespian skills - by which the body is ultimately discovered is a nice touch . . . but then , the sight of the boy's drunken father at the concluding funeral procession proves unintentionally comical . Charles Robinson is the bland young hunter looking for excitement in the village , a mannered Huston is an elderly American who has retired there ( basically duplicating the role his father Walter had played in THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE ! ) , while Katy Jurado has a dual role ( one of them - under layers of make-up - a foul-mouthed old witch ! ) for no obvious reason .
MOCKERY ( Benjamin Christensen , 1927 )	This was my first of Christensen's few American films ( of which , alas , even fewer have survived ) but it was the 17th Chaney vehicle that I've watched ? and , unfortunately , it's quite possibly the worst ! What could have been an intriguing collaboration between a master film-maker and an unparalleled character actor ? both specialists in the fantasy genre ? was wasted on this turgid melodrama set during the Russian Revolution . The film's all-too-typical plot for a Chaney vehicle deals with a simpleton's unrequited love for a fugitive aristocrat ( Barbara Bedford ) whom he aids ; she repays Chaney by making him a servant in her household but she has herself fallen for dashing cavalry officer Ricardo Cortez , who's happy to oblige ? much to Chaney's dismay . The latter is enflamed with the spirit of revolution by another servant in Bedford's employ ( played by familiar rotund character actor Charles Puffy ) , resulting in a rather lengthy and unintentionally funny sequence in which Chaney gives vent to his contemptuous opinion of the aristocrats . The busy third act sees Chaney lecherously pursue Bedford ( once again at the instigation of Puffy ) , after which he comes to his senses and rebels against his ' pal ' , but Bedford forgives him after she sees again the whip-lashes Chaney had taken for her sake earlier on ! Unfortunately , there's little of genuine interest here ( apart from Chaney and Bedford , who's quite good ) and the film falls especially short when pitted against the contemporaneous masterpieces of Soviet cinema ; another American production of the time which deals with the same events is the John Barrymore vehicle , TEMPEST ( 1928 ) , which I have on VHS ? and which , I guess , I should get around to watching sooner rather than later ( especially since Barrymore ? like Chaney himself ? is one of my all-time favorite actors ) . Besides , I still need to pick up several Chaney films on DVD , namely THE WICKED DARLING ( 1919 ) / VICTORY ( 1919 ) , NOMADS OF THE NORTH ( 1920 ; coupled with THE SHOCK [ 1923 ] , which I already own on VHS ) , OUTSIDE THE LAW ( 1920 ) / SHADOWS ( 1922 ) and OLIVER TWIST ( 1922 ) / THE LIGHT OF FAITH ( 1922 ) ? By the way , for some crazy reason , on the print I watched the film is accompanied by a warbly rendition of John Williams ' rousing score for STAR WARS ( 1977 ) ! ! It felt so distractingly out of place that I turned the sound off completely and watched the film ? er ? silent ! !
CAPTIVE WILD WOMAN ( Edward Dmytryk , 1943 )	To be honest , I had little faith in this one ? and , if the " Leonard Maltin Film Guide " is to be trusted , that feeling is certainly true of its two sequels ; however , I was pleasantly surprised by it ? even if , at the end of the day , the film rests squarely on the ( most capable ) shoulders of John Carradine and , admittedly , the animal training scenes ( actually stock footage from a much earlier title ! ) probably take up more than half of its running-time ( which is barely over an hour to begin with ! ) . Anyway , the plot is basically " The Island Of Dr . Moreau " using more up-to-date technology ( glandular transplant ) and given an American small-town setting ; however , the latter stages ? denoting the hybrid creature's murderous jealous fits ? are a definite nod to the Val Lewton classic CAT PEOPLE ( 1942 ) . Having preceded this with a viewing of the superior ( and more sci-fi oriented ) MAN MADE MONSTER ( 1941 ) , it was interesting to witness the similarities in the " Mad Doctor " characterization ? down to the dialogue , where not only is he willing to commit murder ( sacrificing one measly life for the good of Science ) but in the way the mind of a brilliant scientist has warped in the pursuit of his own ' immortality ' ; a Shakespearean actor , Carradine cannot have been pleased to be appearing in this type of fare ( and he made scores of them throughout his lengthy career ! ) but there is no denying the intensity and , thus , conviction of his performance here ( amusingly , he plays a Dr . Sigmund [ ! ] Walters ) ? particularly the calmness with which he tosses circus wrangler Paul Fix into the path of a gorilla which hates his guts or working out in his mind how to use , rather than merely dispose of , people who threaten to disrupt the all-important experiments ( such as wavering assistant Fay Helm and , eventually , heroine Evelyn Ankers ) . The latter ( with whom I happen to share my birthday ! ) graced many a Universal horror movie ? as did , incidentally , some of the borrowed music cues ! ? but here she has to contend with the oddly-named Acquanetta , who looks exotic enough ( and certainly fetching in ' jungle ' garb ) albeit saddled with a speechless role ( thus having to act virtually with her eyebrows alone ! ) and , later , unbecoming ape make-up ! ! ; also appearing briefly as Ankers ' younger sister ( and Carradine's guinea-pig ) is Martha Vickers ? billed under her real surname , MacVicar , and who would later be memorably sexy in Howard Hawks ' THE BIG SLEEP ( 1946 ) . Lloyd Corrigan , then , is the flustered circus owner , Vince Barnett the diminutive comic-relief of an absent-minded feeder and , of course , there's rugged Milburn Stone as the would-be animal trainer leading-man : apparently more often seen as a character actor or in bit parts , he makes for one of the dullest heroes in the annals of Universal Horror ! Although this film eventually found its way on that exclusive ( or is that elusive ? ) " Universal Classic Horror Archive " 3-Disc Set , I had to regretfully settle for an artifact-riddled DivX copy . . .
PAID TO KILL ( Montgomery Tully , 1954 )	I'd always been interested in catching some of the films from Hammer's pre-horror boom ; so far , the only title I'd come across was PHANTOM SHIP ( 1935 ) which was made a couple of decades before the studio reached its peak period but which , presciently , starred one of the era's horror icons ? Bela Lugosi . Anyway , Hammer apparently made a whole slew of ultra low-budget noirs featuring either faded American stars or second-tier leading men . This one , then , happened to be shown on late-night Italian TV and , knowing it's been released on DVD by VCI , I made it a point to check it out . It turned out to be a decidedly modest but not unpleasing little film : the star in this case is Dane Clark ( not exactly top rank , you see ) and , as I lay watching , felt that he wasn't really noir material ? an opinion which , incidentally , I would change the very next day when I saw this same actor in the superior French-made GUNMAN IN THE STREETS ( 1950 ) ! The plot , though far-fetched , is engaging : Clark's business fails and , in order to provide for his wife , proposes to have himself killed so that she can collect on his insurance ; soon after , his fortune unexpectedly turns and he desperately seeks to stop his killer from carrying out the assigned task ! Even if I watched the film dubbed in Italian , the London settings and character types offer a whole different atmosphere to the American noirs ? the same thing goes for the French locations of GUNMAN IN THE STREETS ? and this does help keep one's mind off the measly production values . The denouement provides a few surprises ? Clark's wife emerges a villainess ( which allows him free rein with the devoted secretary who had really loved him all along ) , the attempts on his life turn out not to have been done by the person he paid expressly for that purpose ? which elevates the whole slightly than would otherwise have been the case . Besides , the film is short enough at 75 minutes not to overstay its welcome or allow the proceedings to slip into tedium . By the way , the original British title of this one is FIVE DAYS ( the period of time over which events take place ) but got changed to the more evocative PAID TO KILL for the U . S .
ONE GOOD TURN ( John Paddy Carstairs , 1954 )	As I had been expecting , the second Norman Wisdom vehicle was more of a sentimental comedy - since it finds him taking care of an orphanage ( again , a favorite theme with star comedians ) which is set to be torn down by ruthless developers - and , in fact , there is an excess of pathos present , especially in Norman's relationship with a lonely ( and very uncharismatic ) boy . However , on the upside , this turned out to be quite a plot-packed and gag-filled film , though it runs out of steam towards the end . The level of invention is certainly average ( though already a few gags and plot details are reprised from its immediate predecessor , TROUBLE IN STORE [ 1953 ] ) , notably the trip to Brighton culminating in a marathon walk , Norman's hilarious stint as an orchestral conductor ( even if it's a situation that's been done to death , and the subsequent destruction of the stage was practically ripped off The Marx Bros . ' A NIGHT AT THE OPERA [ 1935 ] ) and the star's myriad attempts to raise money in order to buy the boy a motor-car he had promised him . Interestingly , watching Wisdom at work here immediately after MORGAN - A SUITABLE CASE FOR TREATMENT ( 1966 ) irresistibly draws parallels with David Warner's own child-like behavior in that film ( albeit dealt with , obviously , in a more adult manner ) .
COUNTESS Dracula ( Peter Sasdy , 1971 )	This isn't one of the best Hammers : unusual and atypically authentic but basically unremarkable . The Bathory legend is rendered silly , mainly because it was almost completely re-invented for the screen : the subject matter may have been controversial for its day but Hammer treat it like another Transylvanian vampire , which is a shame , complete with the ridiculous title ! Leads Ingrid Pitt and Nigel Green are quite good : their characters are well-rounded and their relationship is believable . Maurice Denham is amiable , though his comic sage is a bit overstated for the purpose , then suddenly turning conspirator which leads to his unlucky end . Lesley-Ann Down's role as the young Countess is hopelessly under-developed . Apart from Pitt's few instances of exposed flesh , the film's nude content is entirely gratuitous , as was Hammer's style at this late vintage of their life-span ; the violence is occasionally effective ( for instance , Nike Arrighi's murder ) but mostly rather tame . One other thing which annoyed the hell out of me was that servant woman who kept asking about her missing daughter ! The finale , while effective , is preposterous for a couple of reasons : having been suspected of mass murder , the Countess would certainly not have been allowed to celebrate her wedding on such a grand scale ; even worse , her apparent decision not to ' bathe ' on such a momentous occasion is incomprehensible , so that the pay-off is entirely predictable ! Compared to other filmizations of the Bathory legend , and DAUGHTERS OF DARKNESS ( 1971 ) in particular , this take on the ' facts ' emerges as both hokey and extremely old-fashioned ! The transfer is pretty good for a 30 plus-year film ( it seems to have been quite well preserved ) ; ditto for the audio . The theatrical trailer is quite unusual and , frankly , it's better and wittier than the film proper ! The commentary is very interesting and well-paced ( though lack of a mention of the other Bathory films or Pitt's obvious dubbing is sorely felt , also moderator Jonathan Sothcott and director Sasdy's discussion about a certain shot's presence , or not , in the final version of the film ) ; it ends on a bit of a scuffle , however , between Sasdy and Pitt ( who seems to bear some kind of a grudge against the script ) which somewhat dampens the otherwise warm and nostalgia-filled talk !
THE COUNSELLOR ( Alberto De Martino , 1973 )	Third-rate GODFATHER clone is so clearly patterned after the Francis Coppola blockbuster that the end result , despite the occasional felicities , is doubly disappointing : Tomas Milian , the consigliori of the title , naturally has the Robert Duvall role ; Martin Balsam steps in for Brando as the Don and also suffers an attempt on his life ( while visiting his wife's grave ) ; there is also a death scene featuring a bullet-ridden car a ' la James Caan's demise in GODFATHER and another one in a restaurant ( with the owner unceremoniously dumped into the furnace while still alive ) ; a violent retribution ( this time against rebellious mafioso Francisco Rabal and his renegade gang ) juxtaposed with a religious ceremony ( here a village procession ) ; Balsam and Milian fleeing to their Sicilian homeland with Rabal in pursuit , etc . The film also features Euro-Cult favorites Dagmar Lassander ( wasted as Milian's girl ) and Edoardo Fajardo ( in a small role towards the end , as a Sicilian Mafioso whose " godfather " had been Milian's father ! ) but , unfortunately , they contribute next to nothing to the mix . Although the version of the film I watched was in Italian , the gangsters ( particularly Balsam ) have a habit of slipping into English ( " Yu-unna-stan " , " Well " , " Busy-ness " , etc . ) perhaps to show that they've been living for far too long in America but , frankly , I couldn't help laughing when at the end the mortally-wounded Milian ( riding away in a car after the final showdown with Rabal ) has to listen to Balsam rattling away one " Damn Bastard " after another without letting the old man know that he was done for ; it practically reminded me of those scenes in AIRPLANE ! ( 1980 ) showing the various passengers sitting next to Robert Hays who end up doing the craziest things to themselves so long as they're spared from listening to his life story ! As usual with this kind of film , the music is an asset and Riz Ortolani's lush score here is no exception .
THE SALAMANDER ( Peter Zinner , 1981 )	Peter Zinner won an Oscar for editing THE DEER HUNTER ( 1978 ) ; for his only directorial effort , he chose this adaptation of the Morris West best-seller which was shown on local TV back in the day ( actually , that is how I first heard of it ) . He did manage to assemble an impressive all-star cast : Franco Nero plays the hero carabiniere in a throwback to some of the political thrillers he had made in his native country ? such as DAY OF THE OWL ( 1968 ) , in which he co-starred with Claudia Cardinale , and CONFESSIONS OF A POLICE CAPTAIN ( 1971 ) , also featuring Martin Balsam ; both actors also appear here , the latter as Nero's closest collaborator who eventually falls in the line of duty . Anthony Quinn is the titular figure ( a wealthy industrialist and ex-legendary WWII partisan ) , Sybil Danning the mistress of a dead army officer ( whose apparent suicide sets events in motion ) but also serving as Nero's unconvincing love interest , Eli Wallach the General leading a proposed coup d'etat , Christopher Lee as Nero's superior ( actually a prince [ ! ] who is unsurprisingly inextricably related with the Government takeover plot ? interestingly , his on-screen wife was played by Lee's own real-life spouse in an infrequent appearance ) , Cleavon Little as a Black American ex-colleague of Nero's ( whom the latter calls upon when he is in a fix ) and Paul Smith ( as a sadistic " surgeon " ) . There are , however , also a number of Euro-Cult regulars : John Steiner in the role of Wallach's aide as well as lover of his neglected wife Cardinale , Renzo Palmer , Marino Mase ' ? unenviably playing a corpse ! ? and Nello Pazzafini . While tolerable as entertainment ( though there is less action than I had anticipated ) and featuring a decent score by the great Ennio Morricone , the film is ultimately too superficial and uneven to make a ripple in the circles it professes to denounce ; nevertheless , the clever climax is surprisingly ( but effectively ) handled in the style of the " Thin Man " movies ! Besides , one particular scene nearly turns this into a camp classic i . e . when the hero , caught and about to be tortured by Smith , attacks the latter clad only in a harness along his waist ( which gives unwarranted prominence to Nero's groin while leaving his buttocks completely exposed ! ) but ends up slammed against the wall hanging upside-down instead ! !
RETURN OF THE FLY ( Edward L . Bernds , 1959 )	Unsurprisingly , this turned out to be an inferior sequel ? looking somewhat half-hearted in black-and-white ( it was probably rushed into production and treated pretty much as a ' B ' picture ) . That said , here , we're able to see the fly make-up in greater detail than in the first film ( where it was kept hidden most of the time ) ; on the other hand , however , the fly with the human head doesn't work quite so well this time around ( similarly , the two hybrids of human and guinea pig were pretty hilarious ) ! The plot , at least , brings some novelty value to the table in the character of the duplicitous partner intent on selling the secret formula ( I was wondering how the son would eventually turn into a fly , since he seemed determined not to repeat his father's mistake ? though the deliberate manner in which it happens is perhaps too nasty ! ) , the fact that the monster goes on a rampage ( rather than have the scientist simply lock himself away and pity his own fate ) , not to mention how it all manages to work its way to a happy ending ( which is a rare commodity in horror films even to this day ! ) . Brett Halsey is a handsome lead but merely O . K . in the role ( though he would return to the genre a number of times ) , while David Frankham makes for an ineffectual villain ; however , Dan Seymour is a welcome presence as Frankham's equally unscrupulous associate ( amusingly using the funeral business as a cover a ' la that underrated British noir gem , THEY MADE ME A FUGITIVE [ 1947 ] ! ) . As for Vincent Price , he comes across as rather too wimpish ( a characteristic which would actually infuse many subsequent roles , particularly the Poe-inspired films of Roger Corman and other stuff he made for AIP ) ? but , then , how tough can a man be when his brother and nephew are insects ? !
THE NUN OF MONZA ( Eriprando Visconti , 1969 )	The first time I became aware of this film's medieval erotic / religious / political narrative was via the VHS of a soft-core version of the same events called DEVILS OF MONZA ( 1986 ) ; other Italian adaptations were made in 1947 , 1962 ( perhaps the best-regarded of the lot ? a viewing of which , incidentally , followed soon after this one ) , 1980 ( directed by notorious " Euro-Cult " exponent Bruno Mattei ! ) and even a TV mini-series in 2004 . Having preceded it by another " Nunsploitationer " ? the slightly superior ABBESS OF CASTRO ( 1974 ) ? one can see how the genre was thematically limited , but an obvious exploitation goldmine which bloomed at this particular time when a laxity in censorship made itself felt . In fact , the plots of both films have much in common ? where the Mother Superior ( in this case , Anne Heywood ) is impregnated ( rather than by a Bishop , here it's fugitive Antonio Sabato ) and eventually victimized , more than anything else for political reasons ; still , the corrupt cleric is still presented in the person of Hardy Kruger as the convent's Spiritual Director ! As was the case with both the afore-mentioned ABBESS OF CASTRO and the even more notable FLAVIA , THE HERETIC ( 1974 ) ? all of which were watched during the course of a singe day ! ? THE NUN OF MONZA's main assets are the prestigious names roped in to shoot and score it ( Luigi Kuveiller and Ennio Morricone respectively ) ; on the other hand , the career co-writer / director Visconti ( despite being the nephew of celebrated auteur Luchino ) did not amount to much ! Anyway , Heywood is decent in the lead ( looking startlingly like Giovanna Ralli from the 1962 version and who would go on to appear in THE NUNS OF ST . ARCHANGEL aka THE NUN AND THE DEVIL [ 1973 ] ) , but Sabato fatally lacks conviction as the man for whom she pretty much loses her soul ( actually , their affair begins by his rape of her ? bafflingly condoned by two fellow nuns who subsequently flee the convent with Sabato and , later still , are killed by him ! ) . Sadly , Kruger is not given much to do in spite of the complexity of his role ; also on hand are Giovanna Galletti ( Baroness Graps from Mario Bava's KILL , BABY ? KILL ! [ 1966 ] ) as the stricter nun who succeeds Heywood , Pier Paolo Capponi ( later ascending to leading man for ABBESS OF CASTRO ) , a blonde Rita Calderoni as Sabato's jilted fiancée ( I should be getting her NUDE FOR Satan [ 1974 ] soon , which promises to be pure " Euro-Cult " wackiness ) and , oddly uncredited since both roles have considerable prominence , Carla Gravina ( as yet another nun who makes the list of Sabato's conquests ) and Luigi Pistilli ( as a nobleman relative of Heywood's ) . While certainly watchable , the film is rather dull overall ( especially considering that it is nowhere near as explicit as later genre outings ) ? though the poor English-dubbing may have also contributed to my dissatisfaction ; even so , we get some unexpected moments of violence ( Gravina is given a solid thrashing and thrown down flight of stairs by her fellow nuns who , in turn , end up on the receiving end of Sabato's ire as already mentioned ) and Heywood's own fate ? walled up alive in a darkened room ? seems exceedingly harsh under the circumstances .
LONG JOHN SILVER ( Byron Haskin , 1954 )	Flavorful but overlong sequel to the Walt Disney version of TREASURE ISLAND ( 1950 ) , which had given Robert Newton his trademark role of R . L . Stevenson's one-legged pirate Long John Silver ; unsurprisingly , being an independent production ? filmed on a low budget in Australia ? it wasn't up to the standards of the earlier film ( or the equally well-regarded 1934 MGM version with Wallace Beery as Silver ) , despite employing the same actor and director ! While I haven't watched the Disney or MGM films in years , the pirate lingo here ? and particularly Newton's hammy delivery of it ? got to be a bit too much after a while ; besides , Kit Taylor is pretty bland as Jim Hawkins ( stepping in for Bobby Driscoll ) and the DeLuxe color rather unattractive and cheap-looking ( though the poor-quality print I watched didn't help matters any ) ! Slow-starting and altogether juvenile ( particularly the subplot involving Connie Gilchrist , a hearty tavern-keeper hellbent on reforming ? and marrying ? Silver ! ) , the film picks up steam during the second half with the pirates ' return to Treasure Island ( where they find Israel Hands , played by Rod Taylor ? but I'm damned if I recognized him ! ? still alive but now a blindman and craving Hawkins ' blood ) , which also serves as the site of their showdown with a rival band of cutthroats , headed by a Spaniard nicknamed " El Toro " . Still , it's Newton's show all the way : his scenery-chewing antics make the film bearable , and he even went on to reprise his role yet again for a TV series ?
AERIAL GUNNER ( William H . Pine , 1943 )	I rented this and another latter-day Chester Morris vehicle ? GAMBLER'S CHOICE ( 1944 ) ? on the strength of his vintage work in the Pre-Code RED-HEADED WOMAN ( 1932 ) which I have recently watched . As denoted by the title , the film is a Grade-B war flick indistinguishable from the contemporary spate of routine efforts ? other than by the fact that its two leads ( Morris and Richard Arlen ) were way past their prime ! It was quite cringe-inducing to see men obviously in their forties act like a couple of schoolboys , by outwitting one another in an attempt to win a date with the much younger leading lady ! Otherwise , it offers nothing new but is also , essentially , painless to sit through : Morris and Arlen bear a lifelong grudge against one another , so the former obviously picks on him when the latter enlists and finds out that Morris is his superior officer ! Eventually , the tables are turned and Morris is demoted ? for unwittingly causing the death of the brother ( who was driven to prove himself ) of the girl both Morris and Arlen are in love with ? but , in a surprisingly good climax , Morris ultimately atones for this by sacrificing his life fighting the Japs ( when the plane he and Arlen are flying on is downed ) , thus also paving the way to romance for Arlen . AERIAL GUNNER also marks one of the first appearances of Robert Mitchum in a brief role as the commanding officer of Morris ' rival squad of gunners .
RIDE BEYOND VENGEANCE ( Bernard McEveety , 1966 )	Rugged Chuck Connors ( in one of his best roles as a vengeful buffalo hunter ) heads an impressive parade of Hollywood veterans and current TV stars that people this modestly pleasing and occasionally bloodthirsty Western saga : Claude Akins , Buddy Baer , Bill Bixby , Joan Blondell , Jamie Farr , Paul Fix , Frank Gorshin , Gloria Grahame , James MacArthur , Gary Merrill , Arthur O'Connell , Michael Rennie and Ruth Warrick . Connors marries wealthy beauty Kathryn Hays ( the then-Mrs . Glenn Ford ) but seeks to make a fortune for himself in buffalo skins , a quest which takes him 11 years and earns him $17 , 000 . However , no sooner has he arrived back in town that he falls foul of the drunken sadism of boorish Akins , suave gambler Bixby and would-be respectable banker Rennie . Regaining his strength after being cared for by Fix , Connors soon comes face to face with Hays ( who mistakes him for a saddle tramp ) and , subsequently , his assailants whereupon he starts the slow process of reprisal . Bixby gets his in gruesome fashion to the torments they had themselves inflicted on Connors ( with a branding iron ) , Akins is trashed and killed in the climactic bar-room brawl and Rennie ( who is engaged to Hays ) is unmasked as the thief of Connors ' money . Not badly done of its kind , actually , and undeniably given a boost by that cast and its flashback structure ? starting out as it does in a contemporary setting with barman O'Connell narrating of the legendary events that occurred on " The Night Of The Tiger " to visiting government official MacArthur .
REBORN ( Bigas Luna , 1981 )	This was a complete obscurity for me when I chanced upon it on the weekly TV guide but , with that cast ( Dennis Hopper , Michael Moriarty , Francisco Rabal ) and director ( Bigas Luna ) , I decided to check it out . As it turned out , it's a bizarre and wildly uneven religious satire ( with some mild horror / thriller elements added towards the end ) but a handful of powerful moments make it worth watching nevertheless . In short , it deals with an introverted Italian woman who suffers from stigmata attacks and is invited by a flamboyant American televangelist ( Hopper ) to appear on his show ; the ensuing repercussions include an unheralded miracle cure during a mass rally and her falling in love with her " captor " ( Moriarty , giving his typically offbeat characterization ) after a traumatic first sexual encounter in a hotel room - in itself , a very disturbing and blackly comic sequence . The rushed ending , featuring sympathetic aide-turned-villain Rabal chasing Moriarty and the woman as Hopper flips out at his headquarters is clumsy and incoherent but the disjointed whole is held together somewhat by the constant and effectively unnerving ( this being the 1980s , would it be otherwise ? ) synthesizer-based music score .
Catty On Laughing : And In My Lady's Chamber ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	Typically vulgar and empty-headed latter-day drawing-room TV skit by the " Carry On " team ( included on the R2 Special Edition DVD of CARRY ON MATRON [ 1972 ] ) : following the arrival home of one of the doddering but lecherous master's off-springs , various people ( father , daughter , brother , friend , society hostess neighbor , servants ) engage one night in comic ? yet repetitive and confusing ? bed-hopping antics . If anything , the practiced cast ? including series stalwarts Kenneth Connor , Barbara Windsor , Joan Sims , Jack Douglas and Bernard Bresslaw ? moves the ultra-thin plot along to render this decent episode palatable enough .
A QUIET PLACE TO KILL ( Umberto Lenzi , 1970 )	To begin with , when I acquired this , I was under the impression it'd be the 1969 Lenzi / Carroll Baker giallo released in English-speaking countries as PARANOIA and originally given the lurid title ORGASMO ; I watched that film , which was quite decent ( and had a jaw-dropping final twist , to boot ) , during the 2004 Venice Film Festival ? with the genial elderly director in attendance ! This one , then , was released in Italy as PARANOIA and , to confuse matters even more , its English title was very similar to the director's follow-up effort ( and which I'll get to presently ) , UN POSTO IDEALE PER UCCIDERE ? translating to AN IDEAL PLACE TO KILL ? which was itself retitled OASIS OF FEAR for export purposes ! For the record , Lenzi made eight giallos in all : none would perhaps rank among the genre's finest offerings ? though , with this , I'm only half-way through them ( having checked out KNIFE OF ICE [ 1972 ] and SPASMO [ 1974 ] as well , the latter also at Venice as part of a night-long marathon ! ) . Anyway , the film turned out to be something of a disappointment : the plot recalls Henri Georges Clouzot's classic DIABOLIQUE ( 1955 ) but , given rather indifferent treatment , it's not particularly engaging in this case . Incidentally , both stars ? Carroll Baker again and Jean Sorel ? would appear in a number of giallos over the years : the two , in fact , had already made THE SWEET BODY OF DEBORAH ( 1968 ) together and , while the former would make four for Lenzi alone , the latter appeared ( among others ) in two of Lucio Fulci's best films ? one of which , ONE ON TOP OF THE OTHER aka PERVERSION STORY ( 1969 ) , was also partly inspired by the aforementioned Clouzot thriller ! Perhaps the most determining factors in PARANOIA's lack of stature are its positively underwhelming credentials ( the film is an Italian / French / Spanish co-production ) ; that said , the glossy look ? particularly in the beautiful widescreen print I viewed ? and Gregorio Garcia Segura's bouncy lounge score easily emerge as its most pleasing ( and durable ) assets . After a fairly dreary first half , the narrative gets pretty complicated , though the many plot twists aren't exactly surprising : one I liked , however , was when the scheme of playboy Sorel's two wives to get rid of him backfires , he's quick to take matters into his own hands and dispose of the current spouse ( which would leave him tremendously wealthy ) there and then ! Even so , a third woman enters the picture soon after ? the daughter of the deceased ( gorgeous if perennially sullen Marina Coffa ) who , then , conspires with him to oust his ex ( Baker ) by elaborately framing her for Sorel's ' murder ' ! The frenzied climax , in fact , sees the distraught heroine's car plunging from a cliff ( she's being chased by the police when Sorel's phantom suddenly ' haunts ' her ) ? but Baker has the last laugh after all as , in the search to find his ' missing ' body , the corpse of Sorel's second bride literally turns up to incriminate him ! Mind you , the film's still quite watchable ? as much for the reasons already stated as for Baker's frequent nude scenes ?
THE UNCERTAINTY PRINCIPLE ( Manoel De Oliveira , 2002 )	Along with the even more disappointing PARTY ( 1996 ) , this is the least Oliveira I've watched so far . The film is an interminable two-and-a-quarter hours talk-fest of a family saga in modern-day Portugal ; while featuring a couple of fine performances by its lovely leading ladies ( Leonors Baldaque and the ubiquitous Leonor Silveira ) , the narrative is never as gripping ( or even engaging ) as its makers seem to think . Incidentally , it has a deliberately stilted ( read : archaic ) feel to it redolent of the final works of various master film-makers ? such as Carl Theodor Dreyer's GERTRUD ( 1964 ) , Robert Bresson's L'ARGENT ( 1983 ) and even Stanley Kubrick's EYES WIDE SHUT ( 1999 ) ; the irony is that Oliveira , 94 at the time of filming this , is still at it six years later and , on the contrary to THE UNCERTAINTY PRINCIPLE , those above-mentioned films had all been remarkable movies ! Anyhow , the narrative involves Baldaque , member of an impoverished family , being married off to a crippled boy of aristocratic lineage ; their relationship is troubled , however , due to her being pursued by the husband's best friend but , even more so , by the boy's own affair with his friend's female associate ( Silveira ) ? owner of a chain of brothels ! The girls are effectively played up as opposites ? with Baldaque the saint and Silveira ( clearly ) the sinner ; for obvious reasons , they don't get along ? though , at one point , there's a surprising suggestion of Silveira being a lesbian given her ( ufortunately for the viewer but not unexpected in this company ) unfulfilled longing for her rival ! Similarly , the final scene sees Baldaque bafflingly rejecting a lawyer / admirer's claims of her being a good girl ! By far , the film's most incongruous moments are those set inside Silveira's discotheque ? especially the one in which a group of masked revelers casually spill alcohol on the floor as they dance and then set fire to the place ( as it happens , a deliberate attempt by the owners to claim insurance money in order to pay off a debt to their ruthless financiers ! ) and during which Baldaque's drunken husband perishes . Besides , the film is intermittently accompanied by a strident violin-led score which grows more annoying with the passage of time ? not to mention pointless and , alternately , static and moving transition shots of the landscape which add little except length to the film .
CAESAR THE CONQUEROR ( Tanio Boccia , 1962 )	This film renders the exploits of the famed Roman conqueror ( generally depicted on-screen either via the Shakespeare play or the Cleopatra affair ) routine through countless tortuous intrigues and , when they finally arrive , lifeless battle sequences ( despite some gratuitous carnage in close-up , they're full of choppy stock footage and the moves of the various stuntmen / extras look all-too-obviously choreographed and , worse still , fake ) ! At the very least , however , the American star of this peplum ? Cameron Mitchell , who made several of them during this era ? delivers a thoughtful portrayal in the title role . The fact that this is cut-rate even for the modest standards usually set by the genre is borne out by its anonymous production values and supporting cast ( other than Rik Battaglia , as a hammy villain bearing the unwieldy name of Vercingetorix , and future Italian TV personality Raffaella Carra ' , playing Caesar's young protégé ) ; unfortunately , blonde Belgian beauty Dominique Wilms ( as Battaglia's warrior lover ) does not have near enough screen time to make up for these flaws ?
SID AND NANCY ( Alex Cox , 1986 )	Alex Cox is a director whose knowledge of vintage genre cinema I have appreciated on a handful of DVDs over the years but , ironically , I have yet to be completely satisfied with a film of his own . Actually , I was expecting that this musical biopic of sorts ? which is also his best-known and most acclaimed film ? was going to be it but , alas , I could not have been more mistaken ! To begin with , while I certainly acknowledge the importance ( and sheer raw power ) of their sole official studio album , " Nevermind The Bs , Here's The Sex Pistols " ( 1977 ) in the history of Rock / Punk music , it is not a record that one remembers with much affection unless he happens to have lived through the whole punk phenomenon . It is not that the film in itself is badly done ( although I did find it surprisingly conventional in treatment , so that the poetic striving of the fantasy conclusion feels completely incongruous ! ) , it is just that the main characters ? notorious Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious and his American junkie girlfriend Nancy Spungen ? are arguably the most repulsive celebrities ever to have had their ' sensationalistic ' life-story portrayed on film ( interestingly , Courtney Love has a small part here as Spungen's gal pal : her much-publicized relationship of some years later with Nirvana front-man Kurt Cobain basically turned them into the Grunge equivalent of Sid and Nancy ? though , in their case , he proved the only casualty ) ! The ( relatively ) good news is that , for most of the time , the viewer forgets he is watching actors on the screen ( Vicious is , of course , played by another British ' bad boy ' of his generation , Gary Oldman ) ; still , the fact that these people are clearly self-destructive ? since their only motivation for becoming heroin addicts is boredom ? kills any pathos inherent in their tragic fate . For the record , the film does tackle some of the best-known incidents in Sid's life : the Pistols ' gig in front of a hostile audience of American rednecks ( wherein Sex Pistols vocalist Johnny Rotten famously uttered " Have you ever had the feeling you were being cheated ? " , Sid's irreverent cover of Frank Sinatra's anthemic " My Way " , and , inevitably , Sid's own drug-fuelled knifing of Nancy in New York's famous Chelsea Hotel . Incidentally , I have recently also acquired Julian Temple's documentary on the seminal punk band , THE GREAT ROCK'N'ROLL SWINDLE ( 1980 ) ? but , based on my negative reaction to SID AND NANCY , I do not suppose a viewing of that one will happen any time soon !
MAN OF THE WORLD ( Richard Wallace , 1931 )	The oldest and least entry in the Lombard Collection is this would-be sophisticated melodrama , about ex-journalist con-man William Powell who appears to look out for wealthy Americans vacationing in Paris being blackmailed after having been caught in compromising situations – when he’s really the one behind the whole scheme ( with a couple of associates in tow ) . Lombard ( who subsequently married her co-star ) plays the young niece of one such victim ( Guy Kibbee ) ; this is the earliest of her films that I’ve watched and , frankly , if it weren’t for her voice she’d be unrecognizable from her later zanier output . Here , she’s given a very plain look indistinguishable from many an early 1930s leading lady ; in fact , it was only with her performance as a temperamental theatrical star to John Barrymore’s madcap impresario in Howard Hawks’ magnificent screwball comedy TWENTIETH CENTURY ( 1934 ) that she acquired her distinctive – and captivating – personality . Anyway , the film makes for a mildly interesting artifact due to its unusual plot and setting ( though obviously shot on the Paramount back-lot ) ; Powell’s is actually a thoughtful characterization – but Lombard is merely decorous ( needless to say , I’ve always preferred her in comedy roles as opposed to drama ) . Also in the cast is Wynne Gibson as The ( vindictive and somewhat pathetic ) Other Woman , a role that would practically be replicated wholesale in NIGHT AFTER NIGHT ( 1932 ) which , coincidentally , is included on Universal’s " Mae West Glamour Collection " set ! All in all , however , director Wallace fared much better in his more sympathetic depiction of another band of crooks years later in the winsome comedy THE YOUNG IN HEART ( 1938 ) .
HERE WE GO AGAIN , EH PROVIDENCE ? ( Alberto De Martino , 1973 )	This has to be one of the oddest Spaghetti Westerns out there : it’s actually the second entry in Tomas Milian’s " Providence " series – which , coming fairly late in the game , took the by-then prevalent spoofy route ; in fact , there’s even a scene in which our Chaplinesque hero , itself an eccentric novelty , visits an old folks’ home peopled by the protagonists of previous Westerns – and not just Spaghetti icons such as Django , Sartana and Trinity , but also Valdez the Half-Breed who now refers to himself as half-wit ! The titular figure ( he’s not only a fast-draw but also has a penchant for corny proverbs a ' la Charlie Chan ) travels in a hybrid of coach and train driven by an Oriental who also cooks for him – the latter is a nod to the Martial Arts action flicks that came to prominence around this same time , a style which got woven into the Spaghetti Western milieu on a couple of occasions ( incidentally , Milian himself would play an Easterner in THE WHITE , THE YELLOW AND THE BLACK [ 1975 ] ) . Gregg Palmer’s character is basically a stand-in for Bud Spencer – he and Milian , then , are involved in a very funny bar-room brawl which is the film’s undeniable comic highlight ; though underused , " Euro-Cult " starlet Carole Andre ' is a radiant presence throughout . At best , the film is an average effort in the subgenre – surprisingly tolerable ( thanks largely to an infectious score by Ennio Morricone and Bruno Nicolai ) but , ultimately , inconsequential .
THE COLOSSUS OF NEW YORK ( Eugene Lourie ' , 1958 )	A still from this film , depicting the titular robot and a little boy , had adorned the cover of that Sci-Fi issue of " The Movie " periodical which I mentioned in my review of ATTACK OF THE 50 FOOT WOMAN ( 1958 ) – and I’d always been interested in it for this reason ( considering that it’s a title which is rarely discussed ) . Despite being produced by a major Hollywood studio , Paramount , the film is definitely a ‘B’ genre effort – made to cash-in on the sci-fi craze of the Cold War era . The makers clearly relied on such classic prototypes as THE GOLEM ( 1920 ) , METROPOLIS ( 1927 ) and FRANKENSTEIN ( 1931 ) for inspiration – but , being somewhat underwritten , the plot doesn’t quite supply the necessary impetus to elicit favorable comparison with them ! Mind you , it’s fairly intriguing during the first half ( surprisingly written by FATHER BROWN [ 1954 ] ’s screenwriter Thelma Schnee ! ) and bolstered throughout by reliable Otto Kruger’s mad scientist characterization . Besides , the design of the robot itself ( fitted with the re-activated brain of Kruger’s son , a humanitarian-cum-genius prematurely killed in a road accident ) is interesting and actually quite eerie . . . though bestowed with curiously short arms ! However , the latter doesn’t have that much to do since it’s confined for the most part to Kruger’s lab ! Eventually breaking free of its creator / father’s control , the robot emerges into the open and befriends his own son ( who’s unaware of the machine’s true ‘identity’ ) . Inevitably , the human feelings once inherent in its brain gradually get lost within the metallic ‘armor’ – and the scientist even kills his own elder brother ( for attempting to steal his wife’s affection . . . though she’s also pursued by his former best friend , who’s allowed to get away with it ! ) . Finally , having gone berserk , the robot breaks into the United Nations building ( the ‘monster’ during the sci-fi heyday always seemed to vent its fury at some point on such big-city landmarks ) , where it’s destroyed – or , more precisely , shut off – via a convenient lever lodged in its structure by the boy himself ! The film , as I said , doesn’t quite make it into the genre’s top-rank – but , running a terse 70 minutes , emerges nonetheless to be a generally entertaining entry ( and not an unintelligent one , either ) . That said , it’s somewhat cheapened by Van Cleave’s funereal score ( which is more akin to the slapdash accompaniment one is prone to find in Public Domain editions of Silent films ! ) . Besides , there are a number of illogicalities in the narrative which tend to stick out like a sore thumb : for instance , the robot is often seen traveling via water – but wouldn’t contact with this element cause a short circuit to begin with ? ; despite Kruger’s audacious claim that his son’s genius is on the same level of such world-renowned luminaries as Napoleon , Macchiavelli and Michelangelo , the young doctor’s major claim to fame seems to be merely that he had invented a way in which to fabricate food products more quickly ! ! ; the climax is marred by a blatant continuity goof – a girl is seen on the ground in one shot , up on her feet the next and , then , once again on the ground to be pulverized by the robot’s laser beam ! ; as soon as the creature is gotten rid of , it’s business as usual for the folk at the United Nations – with no thought given to the many who had just lost their lives ! ; a similar nonchalant reaction is allotted to Kruger , who admits his responsibility for the tragic events – and , yet , isn’t held to account for his irresponsibility !
? Can Heironymus Merkin Ever Forget Mercy Humppe And Find True Happiness ? ( Anthony Newley , 1969 )	Little seen ego-trip for the resistible talents of writer / producer / director / composer / star Anthony Newley ( featuring his then-wife Joan Collins ) which , due to its copious and gratuitous nudity ( including its creator ! ) , is surely the most notorious production ever to be filmed in Malta ? and , consequently , something of a holy grail for local film buffs ! Given its unavailability , then , I wasn't overly disappointed in the poor ( but certainly not unwatchable ) quality of the print ? and the film itself , possessing a certain sense of style , wasn't as worthless as its reputation would have it ! In itself , a flashy and pretentious semi-autobiographical piece obviously inspired by Fellini's 8 ½ ( 1963 ) , it's largely set on a beach where the protagonist is apparently mounting a film based on his own life ( how self-indulgent can you get ? ) . In fact , what plot there is resolves itself into a music-hall revue with plenty of rather quaint musical numbers ( one of which is reprised ad nauseam throughout ) by Newley and others . These , however , are often interrupted by the surprising presence of legendary American showmen George Jessel ( as a wise-cracking , white-clad Angel Of Death figure , dubbed " The Presence " ) and Milton Berle as the Mephistophelean Goodtime Eddie Filth . Newley's choice of character names is , if anything , admirably Fieldsan : indeed , here , Heironymus Merkin is torn between Collins ' Polyester Poontang and Playboy playmate Connie Kreski's Mercy Humppe ( hence the film's unwieldy title ) . Occasionally , too , Merkin is able to step out of character in order to observe his own actions enacted , in the interim , by a blank-faced dummy ! Also incorporated is an irrelevant adult-oriented fairy-tale , entitled " The Princess And The Donkey " , involving the intimate relationship between one Trampolena Whambang and a mule ( which then turns into a dwarf ! ) ; amazingly , this infamous sequence was filmed in Malta's Presidential Palace ! ! The cast includes other familiar faces such as Stubby Kaye as Merkin's long-suffering scriptwriter and Victor Spinetti as a bewildered film critic who , perhaps justly , blames Fellini for Merkin's ( and , by extension , Newley's ) folie de grandeur . There's a possible goof , too , in the appearance of a religious statue in the background during one of the beach sequences ; this was supposedly removed for filming purposes and , consequently , has been the cause of much consternation locally to this day ! I'm also confused by the film's actual running time : the X-rated version I watched , which one would assume to be uncut , ran for 107 mins . ( with the trimmed R-rated version being 106 mins . long ) ? but the BBFC gives its complete length as 117 mins . !
THE MUSICIANS ( Kazimierz Karabasz , 1958 )	This pointless if fairly amusing 10-minute short ( which was honored at the 1960 Venice Film Festival ) was reportedly among director Krzysztof Kieslowski’s favorites ; incidentally , its maker – who was previously unknown to me – had been a mentor to the future Polish auteur ( and , in fact , THE MUSICIANS is included on various DVD editions of Kieslowski’s THE DOUBLE LIFE OF VERONIQUE [ 1991 ] ) ! The title is self-explanatory , centering as it does on a rehearsal for an upcoming concert by a small-town orchestra ; we’re told that their number has been steadily decreasing over the years – which , however , comes as no surprise at all considering that the musicians have to put up with a cantankerous elderly conductor ! The latter’s antics render the whole passable enough – but , at the end of the day , it’s a film unlikely to receive multiple spins from casual viewers . . .
FANTOMAS VERSUS Scotland YARD ( Andre ' Hunebelle , 1967 )	This is undoubtedly the least of the series ( and is saved from a rating by a hair ) : Fantomas is back to his old tricks , deciding that the time has come to tax the higher echelon of society of a good chunk of their wealth ( no doubt the common people would applaud his efforts ) - but , by now , the formula had grown pretty tired and the comic relief , regrettably , had practically obscured the romantic couple's purposefulness ! Still , why the setting has been changed to Scotland ( of all places ) is unclear , especially since Scotland Yard only really comes into play at the very end ! What we get , in fact , is a lot of old jokes about ostensibly haunted castles , disappearing corpses and frightened manservants - with Louis De Funes ' Commissioner Juve in the thick of it ! - which are better suited to a Bob Hope or Abbott & Costello vehicle rather than one concerning the exploits of an iconic criminal mastermind ! ! ; there's even the traditional fox-hunt which Fantomas disrupts by throwing in his own dog ( barely disguised in fox furs ) as a decoy ! Finally , the master criminal exits by way of a shuttle fired through the castle tower : how he managed to get it inside unobserved ( and keep it from being discovered by the owners and their numerous guests , including our intrepid heroes ) is anybody's guess ! Unfortunately , then , the series ends on a bit of a whimper but it's sheer fun nonetheless and , ultimately , that's what really matters . . .
CROSSPLOT ( Alvin Rakoff , 1969 )	While this has been likened to a James Bond adventure ( which star Roger Moore was still four years away from first tackling ) , it actually plays more like a tenth-rate copy of an Alfred Hitchcock suspenser ? and , specifically , NORTH BY NORTHWEST ( 1959 ) - meets-THE MAN WHO KNEW TOO MUCH ( 1956 ) . In fact , Moore is an advertising executive who unwittingly runs into a person involved in deadly political games ? model Claudie Lange ( who , amusingly , is depicted as being constantly famished ! ) . Incidentally , her equally attractive aunt ( Martha Hyer ) is revealed to be the chief villainess of the piece ( along with Bond-Moore's future superior ' M ' himself , Bernard Lee ! ) intent on assassinating a visiting South African leader ? as always in the most public of places ( in this case , Hyde Park ) and synchronized to take place during the customary 21-gun salute . Two other very obvious borrowings from NORTH BY NORTHWEST are a helicopter chase ( imitating the legendary crop-dusting sequence ) and the rather funny disruption of a church wedding recalling the auction scene in the Hitchcock classic where Cary Grant was similarly drawing attention to himself in order to stall his pursuers ! Also in the cast are Alexis Kanner as a would-be decadent lord who actually advocates peace and ultimately emerges to be on the side of the good guys , as well as Hammer regular Francis Matthews playing a hit-man for Hyer { sic } . Moore having just come off " The Saint " ( a series in which director Rakoff was also involved ) , this still has that bland TV look to it ? despite the rather incongruous Swinging London backdrop . The film includes mild dollops of style , wit , sexiness , action and suspense ? all of which were prime features of NORTH BY NORTHWEST in particular , but which were also part and parcel of the Bond saga . In the long run , taken on its own merits , CROSSPLOT is a harmless time-waster but one that has added value if seen as a transition between Moore's trademark personae i . e . Simon Templar aka " The Saint " and James Bond aka 007 .
THE FANTASIES OF A SENSUOUS WOMAN ( Paolo Spinola , 1969 )	I followed Salvatore Samperi’s MOTHER’S HEART ( 1969 ) with this equally unknown item , which has more in common with it than would at first appear ( i . e . the presence of the same actress , Carla Gravina – even if it’s actually one she seems to hate and would rather forget about ! ) ; the film is more of a bourgeois melodrama though still featuring the ‘obligatory’ political statements of the time . It’s based on a novel by one of Italy’s major literary figures , Alberto Moravia : his existentialist work was fashionable during this particular era in cinema in view of such adaptations as CONTEMPT ( 1963 ) and THE EMPTY CANVAS ( 1964 ) ; I own both of these but , while I love the former , have yet to check out the latter . Incidentally , the movie is perhaps best ranked as " Arthouse " but it’s still listed in the indispensable " Stracult " book – on which author Marco Giusti ( whom I saw numerous times at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ) is particularly hard on , calling it " terrible " and citing " extreme boredom " as its main offense ! The narrative details the fading relationship between a husband ( Silvano Tranquilli ) and wife ( Giovanna Ralli ) ; by the way , the original title ( of book and film ) translates to THE INVISIBLE WOMAN – obviously , it has nothing at all to do with the 1940 spoof on the Universal horror series ! – a fact which is treated more than figuratively here , so that we get the man literally looking through his spouse ( at one point , even describing in detail a stain on the wall which her body is actually blocking ! ) and virtually ignoring her at every turn ( foreshadowing in a way the would-be missing child episode from Luis Bunuel’s THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY [ 1974 ] ] . One aspect that is confusing until the final revelation ( but more on this later ) is the ambiguous presence of Carla Gravina in the couple’s household : she seems to be a glorified maid , yet is never really considered an inferior – she may not be invited to the Opera with them , but does makes it to society parties and private gatherings ( which often descend into displays of hedonism ) ; this was , after all , a time in which liberal attitudes were gaining the upper hand everywhere ! The film tends to wander and can , therefore , lead to stretches of tedium – but it’s handled with some style ( which probably has more to do with the period in which it came out rather than the director’s individual skill , whom I wasn’t familiar with in the first place ) and the performances are pretty good ( though Giusti had personally found Ralli’s studied approach to the role risible ) . Besides , the two leading ladies – both of whom appear in the nude – look divine throughout ( their scenes together , then , emanate a distinct erotic charge ) . . . and , once again , we get a fine score courtesy of the ubiquitous Ennio Morricone ! Which brings us to the climax : there had already been traces of surrealism in the film – blurring fact and fiction a ' la Bunuel’s BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ; whose influence on this one is palpable ) in the incidents where Ralli spies on Tranquilli in bed with Gravina only to wake up and find he’s always been there beside her and , later , Ralli shooting Gravina out of jealousy during a hunting party ( a sequence which is a clear nod to Jean Renoir’s THE RULES OF THE GAME [ 1939 ] down to the ‘accidental’ victim ) before we realize that they’re still on their way to the appointed meeting place – but the ending ( so as not to blatantly spell out the nature of this incredible twist , I’ll just say that it anticipates FIGHT CLUB [ 1999 ] by 30 years ! ) must have seemed highly preposterous at the time . In the end , neither MOTHER’S HEART nor THE FANTASIES OF A SENSUOUS WOMAN ( a suggestively lurid title it doesn’t really live up to ) – incidentally , apart from co-star and composer , both also share scriptwriter Dacia Maraini – can be considered exactly good films ( hence the rating for both ) , but each emerges a definite curio for a variety of reasons .
HIS DAY OF GLORY ( Edoardo Bruno , 1969 )	Included on the second disc of PARTNER ( 1968 ) , this ' underground ' film ( which actually utilizes outtakes from the Bertolucci film for its pre-credits sequence - when proposed leading man Pierre Clementi proved unavailable due to drug-related problems ! ) was virtually lost to the ravages of time ; still , to be honest , the behind-the-scenes vicissitudes ( described in detail by the director himself in an accompanying interview ) are more interesting than the film itself ! It's just as politically oriented as PARTNER , if not more , but lacks its visual sophistication ( being amateurish in every department ) and , while there's an essential plot ( with the central discussion among radicals of various persuasions being a direct nod to Godard's LA CHINOISE [ 1967 ] ) , the film is tiresomely didactic for the most part ( with a tendency towards discussing Brecht's relevance ) . Two other notable movies which also contain long sequences of political debate between radical students are Michelangelo Antonioni's ZABRISKIE POINT ( 1970 ) and Peter Watkins ' PUNISHMENT PARK ( 1971 ; which I've recently double-dipped on via Eureka / MoC's R2 SE DVD but have yet to check out the disc ) but I certainly don't recall them being as heavy-going and dreary as they were here . The most engaging performer is Maria Carriho , the female lead - a Portuguese undergoing political exile in Italy who took the subject to heart and eventually became a fully-fledged member of the Parliament of the European Union ! The male lead , intended for Tomas Milian after the Clementi debacle , was actually played by his regular stand-in Raul Martinez , albeit rather stiffly . Philippe Leroy , the only professional cast member , is featured in a brief but important role which has a lot to bear on the film's overextended climax ( which is still , perhaps , its most inspired moment ) . Although the supplements on the No Shame disc feature footage of Lou Castel acting in the film , he also did not play the main role eventually but , disappointingly , there is no further elaboration at all on this from the director in his interview . One does learn , however , that HIS DAY OF GLORY was somehow sent to the Berlin Film Festival over an Elio Petri film - presumably A QUIET PLACE IN THE COUNTRY ( 1969 ) , a remarkable psychological horror opus and an altogether superior offering !
INNOCENCE AND DESIRE ( Massimo Dallamano , 1974 )	Yet another Commedia All ' Italiana in which a gorgeous newlywed seduces her virginal stepson ; like similar entries in the distinctly Sicilian genre I recently watched , however , this one fizzles out after a promising ( and , in its case , consistently funny ) first half . Still , the oversexed antics of Vittorio Caprioli and , especially , Lionel Stander keep one watching - as does the overeating routine of the former's chubby son . ' Dirty Old Man ' Stander's hard-on incident ( with resulting scruffy hairdo ) and the virginal son's late-night tryst with the local big-breasted momma are the film's tasteless highlights . Besides , the satirical look on seminary priests in the film's initial stages verges on the heretical - as it depicts them watching porn mags , touching one another in class , etc . Edwige Fenech looks good in the nude , of course , but she plays a largely unsympathetic character here - but , then , the novice stepson doesn't exactly win audience sympathy either ( rather incongruously , he keeps score of his father's hit-and-miss bedtime romps ) . The film features a nice jovial score - pretty much the norm with this type of film ( though it does turn kind of serious towards the end , with the spiritual / carnal conflicts afflicting the boy ) . Dallamano is another of the " jack-of-all-genres " Italian film-makers , having previously dabbled in Spaghetti Westerns , Gialli and Poliziotteschi and , although I've only watched a couple of his other films myself ( see BANDIDOS above ) , I'd say he usually turned out better movies than this one here .
MacCORMACK ( Joe D ' Amato , 1974 )	Italian Western made at the tail-end of the " Spaghetti " style , though it doesn't really fit into those parameters . The snowy setting recalls THE GREAT SILENCE ( 1968 ) - which , incidentally , I only watched a day prior to this one ! The plot revolves around the hunt for an escaped convict ( Guido Mannari ) by Canadian Mounties ; however , it also takes in a personal grudge between him and one of the pursuing officers ( played by Fabio Testi ) - its eventual revelation , absurdly delayed , is clearly inspired by Anthony Mann's WINCHESTER ' 73 ( 1950 ) . Testi , however , is unable to express the essential ruthlessness which marked his character following the death of his loved one ( Lynne Frederick ) , who had previously been the neglected fiancée of his quarry ; the trio's relationship also evokes memories of the James Coburn character's backstory , shown in intermittent flashbacks , in Sergio Leone's A FISTFUL OF DYNAMITE ( 1971 ) . Incidentally , Testi and Frederick later appeared together in another ( unsuccessful ) Spaghetti Western - Lucio Fulci's THE FOUR OF THE APOCALYPSE ( 1975 ) ! An unusual element added to the fray is the relationship which blossoms between the villain and Testi and Frederick's child , whom he kidnaps and holds hostage ; at one point , the boy saves the man's life and the latter reciprocates - by calling in befuddled doctor Lionel Stander - when the young one becomes feverish . The climactic scenes involve a showdown between Testi and his nemesis that's interrupted by the latter's greedy cohorts ( prior to his capture , he had hidden a cache ' of gold ) and in which , finally repentant , he willingly succumbs to a hail of bullets . In the end , the film is harmless enough but also strictly routine . This was the first film to bear the name of director D'Amato . He previously directed under his real name of Aristide Massaccesi , which he still retained for his other credit as the film's cinematographer ! In anticipation of this , I rented the director's more typical sexploitationer EMANUELLE AND THE LAST CANNIBALS ( 1977 ) - which I'll eventually get to sometime this week . . .
THE CHASTITY BELT ( Pasquale Festa Campanile , 1967 )	Comic medieval romp which , as can be surmised from the title , concerns the battle of the sexes ; not bad overall , but not sufficiently inspired either ( despite willing performers and interesting credits ? while an Italian production , the script was co-written by Larry Gelbart ! ) . The film is generally entertaining , flavorful , even mildly saucy and , yet , emerges as a somewhat hit-or-miss affair ? with at least as many flat spots as bright ones ( the latter thanks largely to the delightful presence , in both senses of the word , of Monica Vitti ? even though , in retrospect , her modern style of acting seems incongruous within this particular milieu ! ) . The male lead is played by Tony Curtis ? spoofing his own image in Hollywood films of this type ( incidentally , I should be watching him presently in THE BLACK SHIELD OF FALWORTH [ 1954 ] ) . Also in the cast is Englishman John Richardson ( a " Euro-Cult " regular during this era ) as an errant knight who loses a contest with Vitti ( disguised as one herself in an attempt to reach Curtis , currently engaged in Holy War ) and thus sworn to undying loyalty ? even if he's himself eventually revealed to be royalty operating incognito ! Nino Castelnuovo appears as Curtis ' jovial yet frustrated squire ? since the latter is seen exercising his droit de seigneur with the ladies at every opportunity , leaving Castelnuovo " the leftovers " ! Towards the end of the film , Hugh Griffith also pops in for an unremarkable bit as a Muslim who abducts both Curtis and Vitti to his palace ? one to convert to Islam , the other to add to his harem . Buoyed by a lively Riz Ortolani score , this takes a light comedy approach to the subject matter wherein Curtis and Vitti's consummation of their relationship is continually thwarted ? either by tradition , exigencies of State , or their own selfish pride . Even when the two have finally made up and are willing to honor their marital vows , they first lose the key to the chastity belt and , when eventually retrieved , discover that it has been exchanged with that belonging to the Empress herself !
The Ghost Galleon ( 1974 )	The third entry in " The Blind Dead " series is arguably the weakest : dull , uninvolving and peopled with thoroughly unsympathetic characters who are hard to identify with and , ultimately , care much about . The Knight Templars are , yet again , not the same ' characters ' seen in the previous films , as these here have been punished for their evil deeds to perpetually roam the seven seas in the Ghost Galleon of the title ; also , they seem to have diminished to a handful as opposed to the endless array of Knight Templars from the previous film . The ending , however , is a beauty : having disposed of the Blind Dead into the deep sea , the two surviving characters reach the shore and , supposedly , safety - only to see the Dead rise from the sea and make their way s-l-o-w-l-y but surely towards them ! Some people have seen this film as being a major influence on John Carpenter's infinitely superior THE FOG ( 1980 ) but , to me , those comparisons are tenuous at best .
CONNECTING ( Dan Turner , 2005 )	Curiously included on a preview DVD I acquired of upcoming 2008 theatrical releases was this winner of a Short Film competition organized by the British magazine " Total Film " . The premise is very simple : a young man on a bus , caught in a traffic jam on a rainy day , is driven up the wall by his fellow passengers’ obsession with cell phones . He cracks up , beats the boy sitting next to him to a pulp , threatens others with a gun , and searches furiously in the other people’s various bags for every offending ringing phone . Eventually , it transpires that all of this is just a dream – except that there is a cellphone ringing , which is bugging the hell out of the remaining passengers on the bus . . . and it’s the protagonist’s ! This is a modest but clever little 6-minute film , with the tight editing its most notable element .
LA Fiancée ' DE Dracula ( Jean Rollin , 2000 )	The fifth Rollin film I've watched naturally features a good deal of nudity and gore : it's bizarre and incoherent , to put it mildly , but undeniably fascinating for all that - even if , unfortunately , the TV reception got messed up during the first few minutes of the film ! Coincidentally , it emerges as yet another " Nunsploitation " film ( which followed my first-time viewing of SATANICO PANDEMONIUM [ 1973 ] ! ; see review above ) - apart from being an esoteric vampire ( and zombie ) flick ! ! We also have here an interesting depiction of the effect which the chosen ( but unbalanced ! ) vampire bride-to-be leaves on the order of nuns who harbor her . These , then , have been given silly names pertaining to their idiosyncracies , like Sister Pipe and Sister Cigar ( given their smoking preferences ) or Sister Funnel ( which is what one of them unaccountably keeps on her head ) ! ; likewise , there's a ( cave-dwelling ) ogress and a ( horse-riding ! ) she-wolf on hand - but these carry no make-up whatsoever , save for the latter's talons ! ! As for the Dracula figure ( who uses an old grandfather clock as a teleporting device ! ) , however , he's as under-developed here as he had been in Jess Franco's comparable ( and almost identically-titled ) LA FILLE DE Dracula ( 1972 ) ! The film's climax - featuring Rollin's beloved seaside setting - is totally wacky , with mad nuns attacking Dracula's horde of disciples ( including a couple of old crones and a love-struck dwarf-jester ! ) and the ogress ( a veritable female zombie but a sexy one ! ) feasting on a naked vampire , before the latter is eventually fried by the oncoming sunlight ! ! While the flat digital shooting manages , for the most part , not to obliterate the typically dream-like mood created for the film , its cast includes a comeback to Rollin territory for Brigitte Lahaie as the she-wolf I mentioned above ( by the way , I should be watching her first horror film for him - THE GRAPES OF DEATH [ 1978 ] - soon ) and Bunuel regular Bernard Musson ( ! ) . Rollin's latest offering is the only one I've watched from him of recent vintage ; while not exactly a good film , it's certainly unique for these times - and , frankly , I'm more interested than ever now to watch a contemporaneous Franco effort ( if anything for comparison's sake ) . . .
BORSALINO AND CO . ( Jacques Deray , 1974 )	Alain Delon , already past his prime , returns to the tried-and-trusted formula of BORSALINO ( 1970 ) , a fondly-remembered gangster pastiche ( which I had watched some time ago , albeit dubbed , and been somewhat underwhelmed by ) with a surprisingly mean-spirited but ultimately indifferent follow-up . The film is one of a staggering 9 Delon made with director Deray ( the only other one I've seen is LA PISCINE [ 1969 ] , which I remember liking ) . However , since I had purchased LE SAMOURAI ( 1967 ) while in Hollywood and recently ordered LE CERCLE ROUGE ( 1970 ) , I thought I might as well give this one a try . . . Though Delon served also as producer , he delivers a typically blank-faced performance and the film , with no new ideas in either script or direction , is tolerable mainly for its bouts of excessive , almost cartoonish violence . The international cast is reliable but their contribution is pretty ordinary on this occasion : Riccardo Cucciolla in a dual role ( ! ) as Delon's gangleader rival and his twin ; Rene ' Koldehoff as Cucciolla's heavy-set chief thug ; Catherine Rouvel ( still looking gorgeous 15 years after swimming in the nude for Jean Renoir in LUNCH ON THE GRASS [ 1959 ] ) also reprising her role from the original as a high-class prostitute and Delon's old flame , Daniel Ivernel ( from Bunuel's DIARY OF A CHAMBERMAID [ 1964 ] ) as the level-headed Police Commissioner , Alfredo Lastretti ( from Jess Franco's VENUS IN FURS [ 1968 ] ) as one of Delon's lieutenants . . . plus a blink-and-you'll-miss-it cameo from Anton Diffring ( perhaps imposed on the film by its backers , BORSALINO AND CO . being a French / Italian / West German co-production ) .
PARTY ( Manoel De Oliveira , 1996 )	This was a disappointment : I had expected something sophisticated along the satirical lines of Jean Renoir's THE RULES OF THE GAME ( 1939 ) , given its backdrop of an aristocratic fete . Instead , we're treated to a pretentious drama ? basically a four-parter in which the main characters are named after the respective actors playing them ! It's also set on an island to drive further home the idea of an allegory ? but whose point is obscure , with the stream of ambiguous and heavy-going chatter being interrupted only by the occasional lyrical moment ( the film , at least , looks good ) ! International stars Michel Piccoli and Irene Papas appear as the elderly couple , while lovely Leonor Silveira ( a recurring presence throughout the latter phase of Oliveira's career ) is the younger woman and Rogerio Samora her jealous husband . They all try but are defeated by a meandering script ? which eventually sees Piccoli expressing his love for Silveira : naturally , this gives rise to arguments ? which are brought to an abrupt end by a gust of wind that ruins the younger couple's garden party . Five years later , things resume at a castle where the two couples are newly gathered : as before , there's no happy ending in sight for any of the characters ? plus nature puts in a disruptive appearance yet again by way of a downpour . Having to do perhaps with the impossibly advanced age of the director himself , what I'd watched of Oliveira's recent work prior to this had been imbued with a sense of calm meditation ? which , unfortunately , has been replaced here by an unwieldy ( and , frankly , tedious ) rhetoric !
URSUS IN THE VALLEY OF THE LIONS ( Carlo Ludovico Bragaglia , 1961 )	Though featuring many an unlikely plot point ( starting off with Ursus as a baby ? even if it was the third of his adventures to be released within the same year ! ) , this emerges as a slightly above-average peplum in which the muscular hero is once again played by the affable Ed Fury . He is the heir to some throne , obviously coveted by the villain of the piece ? Alberto Lupo ? and thus the target of assassination ; amazingly , he not only survives this but is also brought up , Tarzan-like , by a bunch of lions ( hence the title ) . Amusingly , though he seems to have effortlessly mastered the faculty of speech regardless , Ursus is blissfully ignorant of etiquette since he sees nothing wrong in taking a dip into a stream while the protesting ( and obviously annoyed ) heroine ? a girl , intended for a slave market , whom he helps ? is bathing ! Special mention , then , is given in the credits to the animal wrangler involved , Orlando Orfei , presumably a relative of the film's villainess Moira Orfei ( who was actually a staple of such fare : as was the case with the first URSUS , she has to contend with another girl over the love of a man , even if the object of her affection here is Lupo ) . Surprisingly , the film maintains a fairly sober tone throughout ? with little concessions to the genre's usual pitfalls ( there is no insufferable comic relief , for instance ) ? but we still get the villain's unconvincing demise at the hands of Simba , Ursus ' favorite lioness ( elsewhere it also bonds with the heroine's snowy-white mutt ) , and some unintentionally hilarious action scenes : Gerard Herter , Lupo's henchman , is hit squarely on the head with a stone-block the hero has dislodged from his prison-cell and lives ( at least long enough to be devoured by a creepy pack of hungry hyenas ) ; a soldier is thrown into a fire during a scuffle , rises up blazing , trips and falls flat on his face ; a number of soldiers are commissioned to demolish a cave , the meeting-place of rebels , only to end up buried within it themselves , etc . In the end , the film provides standard excitements but proves mildly entertaining nevertheless ( if hardly essential ) ; again like URSUS , we find some notable names among the credits ? not just director Bragaglia but composer Riz Ortolani and assistant director Ruggero Deodato ( ! ) .
THE MIGHTY URSUS ( Carlo Campogalliani , 1961 )	This is one of 4 films I will be watching during this Easter Epic marathon revolving around the titular muscle-bound hero ( inspired by a character in QUO VADIS [ 1951 ] ) . In the long run , this proved to be a tolerable outing ( with a script co-written by Sergio Sollima ) ? though it nearly shot itself in the foot immediately , with the silly quasi-Alpine chanting accompanying the opening credits ( especially unwarranted in the wake of a massacre which had just occurred in the prologue moments before ! ) . Ed Fury is a serviceable lead as these films go ; also in the cast is a very young Soledad Miranda ( though nearly 10 more years would have to pass before she rose to minor stardom in a handful of Jess Franco movies , which eventually developed into a cult following her tragic death soon after ) . The plot sees the hero returning from war only to discover that his intended ( Moira Orfei ) has been abducted ; so , he sets out in search of her with a devoted but blind slave / shepherdess in tow ( who , amazingly , regains her sight when she gets hit in the head by a bull in the arena ! ) . Incidentally , the latter animal ? whom Ursus also fought in the aforementioned Hollywood epic milestone ? unaccountably beats Fury ( or , more precisely , his stand-in ) to a pulp before the latter can muster enough strength ( or is that anger ? ) to overpower it ! As it happens , Orfei is revealed to have turned cruel and evil in the interim , getting her just desserts in the end ? which , of course , leaves the hero free rein with the gushing shepherdess .
The Creature Walks Among Us ( 1956 )	The third and final entry in the series is something of a failure , if still eminently watchable , because it presents too many angles and , then , is not prepared to follow any of them all the way through ! For instance , the female lead initially comes off as something of a femme fatale , which lends the proceedings an added - and welcome - degree of tension , but during the second half the script basically lets this idea drop and simply blames this behavior on her husband's possessiveness ; the latter , then , is somewhat ineffectual - both as the ostensible lead of the picture and as the misguided scientist so often a feature of the horror / sci-fi genre . The Creature itself is strapped to an operating table for most of the running time ( although the final rampage , admittedly , is very well done ) , whereas the very brief underwater footage has been recycled from the previous films . Besides , the alleged change in the monster's behavior pattern ( from fish to man ) is superficially treated - despite the high-falutin scientific discussion which crops up from time to time to pad out a rather thin plot line - as it is never really made to feel human apart from being dressed in over-sized clothes ! Hell , it had a great deal more in common with the prototype male as a fish with an unmistakable eye for the ladies ( another angle which is barely touched upon here , despite the delectable presence of Leigh Snowden . . . although , by this time , The Creature had probably learned its lesson ) ! ! That said , the abrupt , downbeat finale of this one ( not dissimilar to that of THE ELEPHANT MAN [ 1980 ] ) ends the saga of The Creature From The Black Lagoon on a satisfyingly high note .
THE PREMONITION ( Robert Allen Schnitzer , 1976 )	This seemed intriguing from its synopsis and , having received a " Special Edition " treatment on DVD , I had high hopes for it ? but , ultimately , the movie proved a disappointment ! Hence , I contrived to end my Halloween challenge this year with a whimper as opposed to a bang ( worse still , it wasn't even really a horror film ) ! ! Anyway , the plot has to do with the kidnapping of a child from a foster home by its natural but unbalanced mother ( Ellen Barber ) ; aiding her is a creepy carny ? played for all the eccentricity he's worth by Richard Lynch ( his egomaniac here isn't all that different from the actor himself , as seen in his 15-minute career overview included on Media Blasters ' DVD ) . The foster mother ( Sharon Farrell ) discovers she has paranormal abilities and attempts to locate her adopted daughter with the help of her befuddled husband's expert black female colleague . All the while , however , she has to contend with weird hallucinations ? apparitions by a bloodied Barber ( she having been killed by her own partner ) and especially the recurring forming of ice on mirrors as if to obfuscate her view into the psyche ( which , at one point , even causes Farrell to crash her car ) . Reliable veteran character actor Jeff Corey also appears as the investigating Police Detective . The film had potential ( in the accompanying interview , director Schnitzer states that when he was offered the original script ? which he reworked ? the parapsychology element wasn't even present ! ) but the end result is slow , muddled ( would-be surreal visuals aren't enough in this case to keep one interested ) , pretentious ( there's no explanation , for instance , as to why Lynch and Barber have to go into the occasional psychotic rage ? which is as close as it comes to horror throughout ) , dull and even ludicrous ( the finale in which the girl is ' lured ' into the open by having Farrell play a tune on a grand piano in the town square in the middle of the night in front of an audience of curious onlookers ! ) .
INVASION USA ( Alfred E . Green , 1952 )	To begin with , I had expected to be more engaged by this one ? which I also was under the wrong impression would be a talk-fest : instead , about sixty per cent of its trim 74-minute duration is compiled of wartime stock footage ( representing the potential decimation of the U . S . by invading Communist forces ) ? scenes of the London blitz from the celebrated Humphrey Jennings documentary FIRES WERE STARTED ( 1943 ) are supposed to stand in for the burning of New York ! I wonder how Americans look at the film nowadays vis-a'-vis the events of ? which is perhaps the only reason why it ever saw the light of day on DVD in the first place ! As it stands , INVASION USA is both hysterical and unintentionally hilarious ? never more so than when a car is caught in the flooding of Hoover Dam ( hit by a nuclear bomb ! ) and a cowboy hat is seen floating on a branch as the sole remnant of its Texan owner ! ; Also worth mentioning are the fact that when the U . S . Senate is besieged , it's seen to be peopled merely by doddering statesmen , while the intermittent ' appearances ' by the American President addressing the nation are taken from a vague solitary angle ! Equally queasy is the fact that handsome leads Gerard Mohr ( a cynical TV reporter ) and Peggie Castle are drawn together at such a precarious time , while the middle-aged bartender keeps mixing drinks as if his life depended on it ? apparently oblivious to the ongoing calamities ! Needless to say , the unnamed Soviets are depicted throughout as unemotional slogan-spouting caricatures . The best thing about the film is the brief but typically riveting performance by Dan O'Herlihy ( incidentally , years later he'd appear in a genuine Cold War classic i . e FAIL SAFE [ 1964 ] ) ? not least in view of the twist ending brought about by his particular line of work . In the DVD supplements , much is made of the fact that the film features the two actresses who played " Superman " ' s Lois Lane on TV ? Noel Neill and Phyllis Coates ? but their contribution is , at best , negligible ! ; also on hand as a newscaster is character actor William Schallert , who's said to have made more Atomic-related titles than anyone else ( the top 100 such efforts compiled by " Conelrad " are listed , with a brief synopsis for each one , on the Synapse DVD itself ) ; in an interview included on the disc , Schallert speaks of his brush with Orson Welles ' TOUCH OF EVIL ( 1958 ) where he was proposed for the role later played by Maltese actor Joseph Calleia ? whom Schallert mistakenly thinks was an Italian ! Oh , well , it's near enough I suppose ? As can be gathered , therefore , the extras are quite nice , being pretty comprehensive about the whole Cold War aura which pervaded the first two decades or so of the post-war era ( though I've only very briefly sampled the two radio programs which play back-to-back as an Audio Commentary to the film ) . One of the most telling comments in the extras comes from O'Herlihy himself ? when he went to Russia in the late 1960s to film WATERLOO ( 1970 ) , he was met by such an inefficient people that he couldn't fathom how their threat was ever taken seriously ! ; Noel Neill , then , overhypes the film's impact ? I mean saying it blows PEARL HARBOR ( 2001 ) out of the water is not much of a feat , is it ? In the end , I have to admit that when the Communist ideology ( or critique thereof ) was presented as a sci-fi allegory , the results were generally that much more fun ?
Hammer House Of Horror : Visitor From The Grave ( Peter Sasdy , 1980 ) ( TV )	Again , a number of Hammer veterans were involved in this episode ? namely director Sasdy ( TASTE THE BLOOD OF Dracula [ 1970 ] , HANDS OF THE RIPPER [ 1971 ] ) and writer John Elder ( a pseudonym for Anthony Hinds ) ; however , the plot is totally predictable ? down to the unoriginal ' revelation ' ( even if it does work in a final ironic twist ) ! Even worse are the histrionic performances of the heroine ( recovering from a spell in an insane asylum ) , a female fortune teller she consults ( after she keeps seeing a man killed by her in self-defense ) and the Swami ( hilariously named Gupta Krishna ! ) to whom the latter refers the leading lady . The hero , then , is played by future " Manimal " Simon MacCorkindale . In the end , it's all harmless enough ? but also one of the lesser episodes in this entertaining horror series .
THE LIGHT AT THE EDGE OF THE WORLD ( Kevin Billington , 1971 )	Having fond memories of watching this as a kid , being one of the first VHS I had gotten hold of ( in the mid-1980s ) , I guess I'm more partial to it than would have otherwise been the case ; a measure of my impatience to revisit this over the years is my having recorded it off of Italian TV , almost acquiring it as DivX and eventually coming across a copy of the Image DVD within the space of a week ! Even so , reviewing the film now with an adult perspective clearly exposes its essentially flawed nature . This was a typical ( and typically misguided ) international venture of the time , adapted from an obscure Jules Verne tale and roping in Hollywood veterans ? Kirk Douglas ( who even produced ! ) and Yul Brynner ? in an effort to drum up sufficient box-office receipts ( this was yet another effort by the Salkinds , who were responsible for SANTA CLAUS [ 1985 ] , another very recent re-acquaintance : by the way , I've just recorded off Italian TV , dubbed and regrettably panned-and-scanned , their star-studded version of Mark Twain's THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER [ 1977 ] ) . Anyway , the film's thin plot of a lighthouse keeper ( Douglas , still athletic at 55 ) combating a band of pirates led by a bored-looking Brynner is stretched for a hefty and slow-moving 129 minutes ( which is 9 longer than the official duration given on most sources ! ) . Even if I hadn't checked this out in 20 years or so , I still recalled some of the imagery involved ? such as Douglas hanging upside down from the lighthouse tower , or his showdown with Brynner ( which ends in a fire ) ? to say nothing of those indelible ( and unmistakably European ) faces , some of whom I've come to know by name in the interim , of Brynner's sinister cutthroat cohorts . The rest of the cast includes Samantha Eggar ( ill-at-ease as a shipwreck victim who unwittingly becomes an object of contention between the two male stars : a sure indication of how perfunctory the role was to begin with is that she's ultimately raped and murdered , with not even the hero bothering to do anything about it ! ) , Renato Salvatori ( as another survivor who befriends Douglas but , when finally caught by Brynner and his men , is painfully skinned alive ! ) , as well as Fernando Rey and popular Italian crooner Massimo Ranieri ? both of whose contribution is brief , being literally done away with as soon as the villains make their first appearance ! While the film's tolerable enough as lowbrow epic adventures go , one can't really call it entertaining in view of the seediness and sadism on display ; that said , the thing does become unintentionally hilarious with the clichéd flashbacks to Douglas ' past as a gold-digger in the Old West , and especially the accidental slipping ( almost at the cost of his life ) of Brynner's wild-eyed , long-haired , right-hand man when engaged in an impromptu campy dance in drag !
TO SKIN A SPY ( Jacques Deray , 1966 )	Even if spy thrillers ( which , naturally , proliferated during the Cold War ) are favorites of mine , sometimes I find it hard to follow the films ' convoluted plots - which , more often than not , end up not being all that interesting or even the central focus of the films themselves ! However , I must say that this particular example takes the cake : never during the course of the 90-plus minutes of the film is it made at all clear just which side the various characters are on and what kind of information they're peddling ! In spite of this , the film is rendered watchable by the typically gloomy East European settings , its constant double-crosses and moments of violence and , above all , its weathered gallery of performers - Lino Ventura , Jean Servais , Wolfgang Preiss , Jean Bouise and Rene ' Koldehoff ( the cast also includes Adrian Hoven and Marilu ' Tolo , who's wasted as the only female in the group ) .
THE SELL OUT ( Peter Collinson , 1976 )	Typical ( and typically complex ) Cold War spy saga , not the best in the genre by far – but still counting among its admirers film-geek supremo Quentin Tarantino ! The narrative deals with hounded KGB man Oliver Reed who’s wanted by one side and deemed expendable by the other ; the only one who can help him is Richard Widmark , recently retired from the C . I . A . and currently living with Reed’s ex-flame ( Gayle Hunnicutt ) in Israel ! On Reed’s trail are Sam Wanamaker of the C . I . A . and Vladek Sheybal of the KGB ; an Israeli agent , who’s trying to keep the situation under control , is sympathetic to Widmark but ends up paying for the interest with his life . As a film , It’s watchable enough but hardly outstanding , despite a plethora of action sequences set to a pounding score and culminating in a desert trek fraught with peril . Even so , the star combo works surprisingly well ( watching them dressed up in Jewish garb " praying " beneath the Weeping Wall is an unintentionally comic highlight ) , the supporting cast all pull their weight ( particularly Sheybal’ sleek but ruthless hit-man ) , and the overly-hysterical Hunnicutt is ultimately exposed as a femme fatale . THE SELL OUT is available on a budget DVD containing two other espionage titles ( all under the dubious name of " Great Spy Movies " ) : these are the obscure THE INSIDE MAN ( 1984 ) – which , at least , offers some interest due to the presence in the cast of Dennis Hopper and Hardy Kruger – and the distinctly unappetizing HANGMEN ( 1987 ) with Sandra Bullock and Jake LaMotta !
Dr . Jekyll Likes Them Hot ( Steno , 1979 )	From the little there is available to read about this film , I can't believe how vehemently it's condemned ( obviously by people unfamiliar with star Paolo Villaggio's unique brand of comedy ) ; he's been one of Italy's biggest comedians since the mid-1970s , particularly his seminal 9-film series revolving around hapless everyman Ugo Fantozzi made between 1975 and 1999 . By the way , I saw the actor ( who occasionally dabbled in writing and directing ) in 2004 at the Excelsior Hotel in Venice - while I was attending the Film Festival there - as he mingled with the other guests on the terrace , still in his pyjamas ! Anyway , it's no surprise that the film bears little resemblance to the plot of Stevenson's original novella , and was , in fact , extremely topical in its satirical treatment of various social issues ( industrialization leading to dehumanization and aggressive marketing competitiveness yielding nothing less than chemical warfare ) close to the troubled Italian situation of the time - despite being set ( and shot ) in London ! Still , the Italian title - which translates to DR . JEKYLL AND KIND LADY - misleadingly suggests that it will be taking a gender-bending spin on events in the vein of Hammer's DR . JEKYLL AND SISTER HYDE ( 1971 ) , with Villaggio metamorphosing into the luscious Edwige Fenech . . . but , actually , the ' kind lady ' is none other than the curly-haired and effeminate do-gooder into which the evil Dr . Jekyll ( dwarfish and given a hairy look for maximum effect ) is eventually transformed ! Actually , the Jekyll here is only the grandson of the famous doctor ( a photograph of Fredric March is lovingly displayed on his mantel-piece ) ; the latter still lives , unbeknownst to the current owner , chained to his bed in the basement of the mansion ! As is to be expected , the film has an anything-goes attitude ( with proposed candidates to act as promoter for the doctor's formula narrowed down to the Pope , the Queen and Sir Laurence Olivier ! ) and a surreal tone ( a running gag lifted from the Fantozzi films but which never fails to crack me up - and would , therefore , probably go over the head of most foreign audiences - is the long list of derogatory titles which precede figures of authority ) ; the finale , then , is pure wishful-thinking as everybody is eventually turned into the image of benevolence - but this produces an unfortunate side-effect in that the working class takes to picketing against their employers ' just treatment of them ! ! Clearly the most disappointing aspect about the film is its sad waste of Fenech : despite appearing as Dr . Jekyll's voluptuous secretary ( who falls for his alter-ego , but he's too saintly to reciprocate her affections - while the repulsive Jekyll can only hope to lust after her ! ) , she has little to do and , worse , there's barely any nudity ( especially since she , too , succumbs to the benign formula before long - turning into a blonde , with the equivalent curly hairdo , but saddled with a pronounced lisp ) ! As one can see from this review , I quite enjoyed the film - thanks also to an Armando Trovajoli score that includes an infectious recurrent pop song - and generally found it more consistent than the episodic and usually patchy Fantozzi series ; that , however , may be due to the fact that it's helmed by an expert in the field , having directed the films of many an Italian comedian - foremost among them the great Toto ' . . . and the modest rating is merely a reflection ( or admission , on my part ) of its inherent low-brow nature and middling i . e . not exactly good overall quality .
The Ups And Downs Of A Superstud ( Luigi Russo , 1979 )	I honestly didn't know what to expect from this one ; by this stage , however , I fully anticipated the fact that its erotic content ? which , reportedly , is borderline hardcore ? would be severely diluted on the print shown on late-night Italian TV ( in fact , the film ran for a mere 77 minutes when the full-length , as given on most Internet sources , is closer to 92 minutes ! ) . Incidentally , negative opinions seem to berate the essential flatness of technique on display ? while this is understandable , given the film's generally modest credentials , its visual style is really quite typical of Italian comedies from this era . Anyhow , the picture turned out to be a surprisingly engaging romp ; its major inspiration is to turn the sexual exploits of a well-endowed male teenager into black comedy material , as his ' talent ' elevates the fortunes of a run-down seaside hotel owned by his liberal grandmother ! As the film opens , the boy ( Christian Borromeo ) is shy and two of his pals decide to take him to an aging and unattractive local prostitute ? but she balks at the size of his member , arguing that it could ruin her own professional tool ! Back home , he's infatuated with the voluptuous maid ? though , when she finally calls him into her room one night , they're immediately interrupted by his father ( who lusts after the girl himself when his own spouse is asleep ! ) . The hero is sent to his grandmother's as punishment ; he's not initially looking forward to the prospect , but some time after his arrival he meets the daughter ( future Italian TV showgirl Lory del Santo ) of the architect engaged to carry out the renovation of the hotel . She appears snobbish at first but , during dinner , their mutual attraction is palpable ? leading to some below-the-table shenanigans which distract a woman sitting at a nearby table from her full-time job of secretary to a pompous TV writer ( unable to contain her passion , she too eventually confronts the boy in the hotel corridors ) . Aiding the hero in the maintenance of the hotel is another male youth : however , he has no such luck with the women despite being hung-up on one particular guest ? Ajita Wilson , a black transsexual quite popular during this time ( whose on-screen husband is himself gay ) . Anyway , satisfied customers start spreading the word and soon the place is buzzing with activity ( most of it , naturally , centering around Borromeo's quarters ) . Two extraneous conquests for the boy are the very girl who put him on the road to ' success ' i . e . the maid from his former household who decides to pay him a visit on her day off and the sister of the hotel owner's lawyer who , married to a rich but senile foreigner , is obviously left wanting in certain matters . By the way , Borromeo's granny had forbidden him to become involved with the female hotel staff ? but these two girls won't be discriminated against , and decide to quit in unison unless . . . To cut a long story short , the boy's virtually non-stop occupation soon takes its toll and his sexual prowess is ultimately dissipated ; this , of course , could spell disaster for the hotel ? but , thankfully , del Santo is back and she manages to cure Borromeo . The film is breezy fun for the most part , what with its likable protagonist and many of the younger girls obviously looking great unclothed ; on the opposite end of the scale , Wilson definitely emerges an acquired taste ( this is the second film I've watched her in following Jess Franco's MACUMBA SEXUAL [ 1981 ] , though the same director's SADOMANIA [ 1981 ] and Cesare Canevari's THE NUDE PRINCESS [ 1976 ] could be worth pursuing as well ) ? while Stelvio Cipriani's cheesy score can hardly be ranked among his more notable efforts .
PAYMENT IN BLOOD ( Enzo G . Castellari , 1967 )	This was the fifth ( ! ) Spaghetti Western I've watched from director Castellari ( whom I met at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ) ? it's not too bad an effort actually , though still far away from the admirably elegiac quality he would eventually achieve in KEOMA ( 1976 ) . The plot is pretty typical of the genre : after the end of the Civil War , a Confederate Colonel ( Guy Madison ) wants to keep up the fight and recruits a band of outlaws to finance his campaign through random pillaging ; given that the original Italian title makes an explicit reference to the fact that the gang totals seven men , I guess the film intended to be a roguish version of THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN ( 1960 ) ! Anyway , as expected , an outsider ( Edd Byrnes ) soon joins their ranks ? after having rescued one of them ( Enio Girolami , the director's brother and who , in the role of a peon , irritatingly speaks almost exclusively in Spanish throughout ! ) . However , it transpires ( equally unsurprisingly ) that he's really a government agent out to ensnare Madison and his men by ostensibly leading them to a buried cache ' of Confederate money ! Along the way , a female character is also thrown into the fray ? which , naturally , causes discord among the Colonel and his ' underlings ' since , rather than share her with them as was their habit , he decides to keep her for himself ; at the end , she too turns out to have been on the side of the law ( and in cahoots with Byrnes all along ) ! The film features plenty of action ? set to a rousing score by Francesco De Masi ? and climaxes agreeably with an atmospheric sequence set inside a cave ( where the now worthless money is stashed ) that served as burial ground for some Indian tribe or other .
THE HAPPENING ( M . Night Shyamalan , 2008 )	One of my pet peeves has always been when movies have identical names but absolutely nothing else in common with each other ; this is just such a case since , back in 1967 , Elliot Silverstein had already directed Anthony Quinn and Faye Dunaway in a now-forgotten hippie kidnappers comedy which , incidentally , I’ve caught on Italian TV ages ago . Typically for M . Night Shyamalan’s recent movies , his latest offering was coolly received by both critics and audiences but I actually thought that , at least for the first hour , it was pretty good . Hell , even Mark Wahlberg gets better with each successive film I see him in – or at least seems more tolerable as a leading man here than in that deplorable PLANET OF THE APES remake from 2001 ! Like the director’s previous films THE VILLAGE ( 2004 ) and , to a lesser extent SIGNS ( 2002 ) , this one also has an intriguing premise which is , however , marred by an unsatisfying denouement . In any case , the film’s would-be apocalyptic feel and the eventual discovery of its natural aggressor bring to mind equally modest ( but vintage and decidedly superior ) sci-fi outings like PANIC IN YEAR ZERO and THE DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS ( both 1962 ) . The belatedly introduced ‘redneck granny’ character was hard to take at times and , besides , as often happens to me while watching disaster movies , I break out in giggles every time there is depicted an event of mass hysteria ( which come in droves here ) . One does wonder at this point , though , where Shyamalan’s career might possibly be headed since he has basically been stuck in the same allegorical / apocalyptic fantasy rut for far too long now . . .
IT'S YOUR MOVE ( Robert Fiz , 1969 )	This was the last of Edward G . Robinson's caper films of the 1960s , which co-stars Georges Rigaud ? with whom he had appeared in the similar but more enjoyable GRAND SLAM ( 1967 ) . Curiously , it proved to be the sole directorial effort by one Robert Fiz ; of course , this kind of genre picture usually makes itself , with a surface gloss that is extremely typical of its era ? though the breezy score is rather irritating this time around . If anything , this particular effort doesn't sustain its initial momentum and bogs down during the second half ; besides , the ageing star himself seems to be sleepwalking through his role ! Anyway , the highly improbable plot concerns the kidnapping of four bank employees by one of their most eminent customers ( Robinson ) , to be replaced by exact doubles of them . We're supposed to believe that the old man happens to know three criminal lookalikes of these people but couldn't do the ' job ' until he came upon the fourth , the secretary of manager Terry-Thomas ( who's pretty much wasted here : incidentally , I have another Italian-made caper to watch in which the gap-toothed British comic is also featured , COLPO GROSSO ? GROSSISSIMO ? ANZI PROBABILE [ 1972 ] ) ! The most notable other cast member is Adolfo Celi ( whom I watched again soon after in A MAN FOR EMMANUELLE [ 1969 ] ) appearing in one of the dual roles ? the bank employee turns out to be teetotaler saddled with a shrewish wife and who's a Communist to boot ! The girl , then , is played by lovely Maria Grazia Buccella ? who's given a couple of unexpected and wholly gratuitous ( but , nonetheless , welcome ) nude scenes as she's preparing to ' fit ' into the character of the bespectacled secretary who's a devotee of pulp thrillers ( incidentally , she resists her superior's attentions but when replaced , gladly acquiesces to his attentions for the sake of the robbery ! ) . The double-crosses and twists come thick and fast but , again , they lack the touch of inspiration ? the kidnapped employees use the corks of champagne bottles in Robinson's basement to attract the attention of the elderly but stone-deaf female bee-keeper ; when they finally escape and go to the police , the latter keep Robinson under house arrest ? where he engages in periodic chess games with the investigating inspector ( the film's original sub-title , in fact , translates to MAD CHECKMATE ! ) ; finally , the quartet ? with the Inspector and Robinson in tow ? confront Terry-Thomas with their tall tale who , naturally , disbelieves them since he claims the employees were present the previous day ( even sillier here is the fact that the doubles / culprits , instructed by Robinson to return the stolen money to the vault so as to put him definitely in the clear with the Law , emerge all-blacked-up from a back-room at that exact moment and nonchalantly exit the bank ! ) .
THE BURNING ( Tony Maylam , 1981 )	Opinions vary with respect to this slasher : Leonard Maltin rates it a BOMB , while our own Michael Elliott had awarded it ! Surprisingly , I found myself leaning towards the more favorable rating ? though I wouldn't quite go all the way . It is somewhat better than most of the Friday THE 13TH films ? which it most closely resembles in view of the summer camp backdrop . Unusually , though , we learn that the disfigured maniac at the center of it was always something of a villain ? which certainly doesn't elicit our sympathy for him ! Still , the hero is allowed to get away with having participated in the prank which sent the former off the deep end ( then again , his companions ? who are never seen again after the prologue ? have it way better than him ) ! As for the youngsters , I guess it's a tie : some kids are likable enough , a few of the girls are certainly pretty but there are , of course , the obnoxious egocentrics / show-offs in their midst as well . Unsurprisingly , the latter get their just desserts but , then , so do a number of the others ? with the girls more often than not caught , for our benefit , with their knickers down . The murder weapon utilized most often throughout ? a pair of garden shears ? undoubtedly allows for a number of graphic slayings . Interestingly , then , for the finale , the villain brings out a blowtorch ( intending to give the hero the treatment he got himself , albeit accidentally ) . Needless to say , though , it all ends horribly for the killer ( clad in dark clothes a ' la the typical giallo maniac ! ) ? destined forever to become the subject of camp-fire tales told by the teenagers he hates so much ( is the guy unlucky or what ? ) ! ! Technically , the film ? which , incidentally , proved the Weinstein brothers ' baptism of fire ( no pun intended ! ) ? is nothing special and relies rather too obviously on cheap scares . A definite asset , however , is to be found in Rick Wakeman's electronic score ; Tom Savini's make-up of the villain ? when finally glimpsed ? is quite effective , too .
DEAD MAN'S EYES ( Reginald LeBorg , 1944 )	While the plot of this third " Inner Sanctum " film is , in itself , intriguing - and certainly provides plenty of possible suspects - the handling is rather stiff , with too much talk and little real suspense ! Once again , Chaney is the talented object of desire ( ! ) - a painter - torn between society woman Jean Parker and exotic model Acquanetta ; he really loves the former but , when he's rendered blind in an accident , he decides to let her go and accepts the latter's care ( she being the unwitting cause of his precarious condition ! ) . Paul Kelly has a good role as Chaney's best friend and secret ( but unrequited ) admirer of Acquanetta . Parker's elderly father opts to have his eyes transplanted after his death so , when he ends up murdered , police detective Thomas Gomez turns up to root out the guilty party ; the denouement , then , is pretty convoluted but not very exciting . While the quality of this series has steadily deteriorated so far from one entry to the next ( though the films are never boring and mercifully short ) , I still look forward to the remaining three installments . . .
SHE ( Robert Day , 1965 )	I was looking forward to this Hammer Films color remake of the H . Rider Haggard classic , after having re-acquainted myself with the fine 1935 black-and-white version last year . I was also glad to be able to get another Peter Cushing / Christopher Lee collaboration under my belt : this was , in fact , followed by another - Dracula A . D . 1972 ( 1972 ) - but , alas , both films turned out to be duds ! Even if it retains the desert setting of the novel ( whereas the earlier version had transposed the narrative to the Arctic , albeit effectively ) , the film doesn't capture the imagination of the audience , so to speak , and emerges a dullish venture overall . Indeed , even the Hammer stalwarts - Cushing , Lee and composer James Bernard - seem uninspired by the material and their individual contribution is surprisingly below-par ! To make matters worse , the two stars were largely relegated to the sidelines to make way for the insipid three-way romance comprising Ursula Andress , John Richardson and Rosenda Monteros ( though the girls , at least , constitute undeniable eye-candy ) . Having just viewed THE CREEPING FLESH ( 1973 ) , I appreciated Cushing's healthier-looking appearance here - though the Dracula film , needless to say , brought me back to his impossibly gaunt physique which resulted from the untimely death of his beloved wife ! ; as for Lee , ridiculously decked with a beehive-shaped headset during the climactic scenes , he was obviously the villain of the piece . The cast also featured Bernard Cribbins as Cushing and Richardson's companion / servant and a bare-chested ( ! ) Andre ' Morell as Monteros ' father . Despite having previously helmed two Boris Karloff horror vehicles - GRIP OF THE STRANGLER ( 1958 ) and CORRIDORS OF BLOOD ( 1958 ; which also featured Lee ) , both of which I've yet to catch up with myself { where are those rumored Criterion / Eclipse SE DVDs ? } - this was Robert Day's only film for the Hammer stable , and it's easy to see why !
SYRIANA ( Stephen Gaghan , 2005 )	This has to be the most disappointing of last year's ' big ' films : what promises to be a gripping political / conspiracy thriller turns out to be a dull and tortuously-plotted ( for no reason , if you ask me ! ) film with an over-abundance of characters , very few of whom generate any real interest ( especially for a non-American viewer ) ; furthermore , the three leads ' boring domestic lives are dealt with in some detail - thus padding the running time unnecessarily ! George Clooney , naturally , came out best from the cast - though I'd rather he'd gotten his Oscar for GOOD NIGHT , AND GOOD LUCK ( 2005 ) - filled with notables : Matt Damon's boyish looks were unsuited to his role , which didn't really lead anywhere anyway ! ; Jeffrey Wright was good but his constant bickering with his drunken father became unintentionally hilarious ; Chris Cooper , Christopher Plummer and William Hurt ( interestingly , he was vying with Clooney for the Best Supporting Actor Oscar , playing the deranged mobster in A HISTORY OF VIOLENCE [ 2005 ] ) offered their consummate professional support . The Muslim subplots , then , were a total drag and really took me out of the picture ! In the end , there were all of 20 minutes from this 2 hour-plus film in which I was genuinely drawn into the narrative - namely Clooney's torture scenes and the desert finale . . .
THE BEAST IN THE CELLAR ( James Kelly , 1970 )	This was the first title from Anchor Bay UK's " Tigon Collection " Box Set that I checked out - being already familiar with the higher-profile titles among them , namely WITCHFINDER GENERAL ( 1968 ) and THE BLOOD ON SATAN'S CLAW ( 1970 ) . While the film isn't as bad as its reputation would suggest , and is actually well worth watching , it is by no means a classic . The interesting premise classifies it as an anti-war movie but it was deemed to be too talky by executive producer Tony Tenser and , along with some cuts , he ordered the addition of sex and violence inserts to heighten its commercial potential . However , incongruous as they may seem alongside the film's generally deliberate pace , these rapidly-cut scenes of the rampaging ' beast ' work quite well ! The film's mainstay , of course , are committed performances by the two elderly female leads - Beryl Reid and Flora Robson - but also T . P . McKenna as the police official investigating the murders . John Hamill and Tessa Wyatt's contribution - intended to provide the requisite romantic interest - is largely negligible , however . Perhaps the best scene in the film is Reid's lengthy account to McKenna of their family's back-story , disclosing the identity of the ' beast ' and the reason for its violent behavior . One may notice inconsistencies in the lighting scheme throughout ; this is the result of having two separate cameramen - with very different styles - working on the film , albeit both very well regarded exponents of the field ( Harry Waxman and Desmond Dickinson ) . Tony Macaulay's over-emphatic score , however , works against the film's attempt at creating suspense and , ultimately , is what dates it most of all . THE BEAST IN THE CELLAR was actually released as a double-bill with the far superior THE BLOOD ON SATAN'S CLAW , which I rewatched later in the week . Director Kelly made only one other film before his untimely death - NIGHT HAIR CHILD ( 1971 ) - which , incidentally , I should also be watching fairly soon since I recently got a copy of it ! The main supplement on the Anchor Bay UK DVD is the Audio Commentary , which is pretty adequate : Tenser's memory isn't so lucid and is occasionally hard to understand , but associate producer Christopher Neame ( son of director Ronald ) made up for this by his highly articulate observations and recollections about this particular film .
DON'T TRUST YOUR HUSBAND ( Lloyd Bacon , 1948 )	Frankly , I was surprised to learn that the two stars of this obscure but engaging comedy ? Fred MacMurray and Madeleine Carroll ? had starred in four previous films together ( all of which are , for that matter , even less well-known than this one and , curiously enough , directed by the same ? here it comes again ? little known director ! ) . In fact , this was not only Carroll's fifth and final teaming with MacMurray but also her penultimate film ; that said , the two stars display a nice chemistry throughout . The plot itself recalls to a certain degree the classic THE AWFUL TRUTH ( 1937 ) , where a married couple starts divorce proceedings ( and new affairs ) but then decide they're best suited for each other at the end . MacMurray is an advertising executive ( a lot of comedies from this era were set in this milieu ) and Carroll his somewhat neglected wife ? he says that his constant delays at work involve business meetings , but she suspects the presence of another woman ( being the type of comedy it is , she turns out to be right ? and , to make matters worse , the girl ? played by Louise Albritton ? concerned is none other than an ex-flame of MacMurray's ! ) . In order to make her husband jealous , she hires an actor through an agency to flirt with her at a restaurant ? but a waiter's mistake lands her in the arms of a Southern tobacco tycoon ( Charles " Buddy " Rogers ) ! Anyway , the comic situations that ensue ( typically , these usually involve misunderstanding and embarrassment ) make for a pleasant and unassuming hour and a half ; highlights include Rogers explaining to MacMurray how he applied logic to arrive at the name " Kim Zezyzle " for his brand of cigarettes , and Alan Mowbray ? posing as Albritton's husband during a dinner engagement for MacMurray's benefit ? constantly interrupting the sensitive conversation ( even after Carroll has joined the table ) to boorishly ask , " When do we eat ? "
VENGEANCE VALLEY ( Richard Thorpe , 1951 )	Since watching a number of vintage albeit minor efforts from recently-deceased Hollywood legends ( such as Richard Widmark and Charlton Heston ) , I have been on the alert in seeking out similarly ‘neglected’ outings featuring contemporaneous stars ; this , then , is an early Burt Lancaster vehicle – a pleasant ( especially in Technicolor ) but perfectly ordinary Western , his first of numerous stints in the genre and which include a number of genuine classics ( VERA CRUZ [ 1954 ] , GUNFIGHT AT THE O . K . CORRAL [ 1957 ] , THE PROFESSIONALS [ 1966 ] ) . Anyway , as far as I can tell , this is Lancaster’s sole film for MGM ( which gives the film typical gloss by also their customary blandness ! ) : he plays a stoic ranch foreman , foster-son of crippled owner Ray Collins , who continually has to intercede for the latter’s ne’er-do-well offspring ( Robert Walker ) – married to a woman ( Joanne Dru ) , but who has impregnated another ( Sally Forest ) . For this reason , Lancaster goes out of his way to ease Forrest’s current predicament – a situation which , however , is misunderstood by the locals ( and even more so by the girl’s revenge-seeking brothers , played by John Ireland and Hugh O’Brian ) ; naturally , Dru herself doesn’t really love her husband but , rather , harbors affection for Lancaster – which he’s reluctant to return for fear of hurting both Walker and Collins ( on the other hand , Forrest is admired from afar by timid ranch-hand Carleton Carpenter ) . Still , as it turns out , Walker is beyond redemption : he’s jealous of his father’s affection for Lancaster , accuses the latter of wanting to usurp the inheritance which is rightfully his ( when Lancaster proposes that Walker leave town and start afresh elsewhere in view of the scandal ) – to the point that he coerces Collins to appoint him co-proprietor sooner rather than later ( a position he exercises immediately when , hard-up for cash , he sells off a herd of cattle ! ) ; worst of all , he connives with Forrest’s brothers and a cattle-rustler ( Ted de Corsia ) – all of whom had fallen foul with Lancaster at some point – in order to get rid of the latter once and for all . Of course , his plans are foiled eventually – which sees the two ‘brothers’ facing off at the climax ( a strikingly-handled scene coming from journeyman Thorpe ) ; incidentally , Lancaster’s sturdy physique gets adequate mileage here : the star , in fact , is involved in a number of vigorous scuffles throughout . Mind you , VENGEANCE VALLEY – scripted by Irving Ravetch , soon to become a genre stalwart , from a novel by popular Western scribe Luke Short – is brisk and reasonably enjoyable , and the performances surprisingly committed ( giving the whole , if anything , an air of professionalism ) . Nevertheless , the film doesn’t amount to a memorable enough outing to secure much of a reputation for itself within the vast scope of this most ‘abused’ of American genres – incidentally , the fact that this particular title has unaccountably fallen into the Public Domain has only dampened its chances in this regard all the more . . .
THE ROAD TO MANDALAY ( Tod Browning , 1926 ) { Incomplete }	Regrettably , this dupey , incomplete , French-subtitled print is apparently all that survives of yet another intriguing Tod Browning / Lon Chaney collaboration ! Plot and setting are typical of their films ( which tends to make the whole somewhat predictable if never less than fascinating ) : Chaney is the disfigured leader of a criminal gang whose daughter has grown in a saintly environment away from his bad influence ( not too dissimilar from KONGO [ 1932 ] , in fact - or , should I say , WEST OF ZANZIBAR [ 1928 ] ) . Due to the missing footage , there are understandable gaps in the narrative ( particularly the reformation undergone by Owen Moore's character and also the fact that Chaney's daughter could marry his criminal associate without him being aware of it , given that brother Henry B . Walthall - who is also , conveniently , a priest - periodically reports to Chaney with news of her ! ) but the film remains watchable with , among its highlights , the recurring battle for control of the gang between Chaney and a Chinaman who's handy with knives played by Sojin . Chaney , as usual , gives a flawless performance and his eye make-up ( which I had been intrigued by ever since first seeing it by way of a massive still from the film in an old tome - published in 1956 , no less ! - of my father's ) is highly effective . Unfortunately , the last few minutes of the film were further impaired by the constant freezing of the disc but , for what it's worth , I'm very pleased to have had this opportunity to sample such a rare item . . .
THE NUN AND THE DEVIL ( Domenico Paolella , 1973 )	Yet another Stendhal-inspired " Nunsploitationer " in the vein of THE NUN OF MONZA ( 1969 ) and ABBESS OF CASTRO ( 1974 ) ? incidentally , MONZA's Anne Heywood dons the habit here as well , while Pier Paolo Capponi appears in all three ( in this case , he is a lecherous nobleman ) . Actually , the film's German title translates to THE NUN OF VERONA : with this in mind , the absurd English moniker is utterly misleading ? not to mention liable to confuse it with Jerzy Kawalerowicz ' much superior THE DEVIL AND THE NUN aka MOTHER JOAN OF THE ANGELS ( 1961 ) ! It emerges somewhat more plot-packed than usual , with several nuns being involved in illicit / corrupt business behind convent walls : apart from Heywood ( who is more of a conspirator this time around and caps her performance with an effective diatribe at the obligatory trial followed by an excruciating death scene ) , these include Martine Brochard , Claudia Gravy ( from the weird Spaghetti Western MATALO ! [ 1970 ] ) and Ornella Muti ( most appealing when sporting short-cropped hair and masculine attire , her role is secondary but she carries it with aplomb ) . The Inquisition , then , is represented by a fanatical Luc Merenda ( miscast ) and Cardinal Claudio Gora . The oppressive medieval atmosphere is nicely caught ( though the print I got hold of , featuring a reasonable English-dubbed track , is a bit too dark ? furthermore , the split between its two parts irritatingly occurs in mid-sentence ! ) and , while the trademark nudity and violence are certainly there , these are not particularly explicit . In the long run , THE NUN AND THE DEVIL ( which comedy / peplum exponent Paolella directed under the pseudonym Paolo Dominici ! ) is pretty solid as " Nunsploitation " films go .
GRIZZLY MAN ( Werner Herzog , 2005 )	Herzog gives us another of his compelling portrayals of obsessive larger-than-life characters in telling the inspirational but tragic story of earnest if ultimately misguided bear activist Timothy Treadwell . I'm not usually a fan of documentaries but Herzog's involvement and the positive buzz created by this movie on HTF led me to give it a try . . . and I'm certainly glad I did so . The film elicits an emotional response from the viewer , not only because of its eccentric protagonist and his ( and girlfriend's ) eventual fate , ironically , at the hands of the same creatures he so ardently wanted to protect and bring to the world's attention , but also because Herzog ( for the most part ) wisely lets Treadwell's own uniquely fascinating footage - down to a few hours before his death ! - do most of the talking for him .
THE ALLIGATOR PEOPLE ( Roy Del Ruth , 1959 )	Having watched this as a kid , I’d been toying with the idea of purchasing the cheap ( and bare-bones ) Fox DVD ever since its release a few years back ; I’d been trying to get it from other sources , too , and I finally managed it recently . Unfortunately , while the video quality was pleasing enough ( being Widescreen and all ) , the sound proved less satisfactory – due to synch problems and occasional audio dropouts . In any case , I was glad to re-acquaint myself with the film after all these years . . . even if it didn’t quite live up to my recollections of it being some kind of minor genre classic ! While the title is rather too much of a give-away and could well induce ridicule by non-hardened fans , it’s an effective hybrid of sci-fi and horror clearly patterned after THE FLY ( 1958 ) : in fact , it was reportedly commissioned specifically to fill the lower half of a double-bill with that film’s first sequel ! The central narrative is unnecessarily framed – and , consequently , slowed down – by scenes in which heroine Beverly Garland recounts her incredible experience to a couple of psychiatrists : on the night of her marriage to a young man who had miraculously survived a plane crash , he runs out on her without so much as a word ; she starts looking high and low for him until she stumbles upon an enigmatic address situated deep in the swamplands of Louisiana ; of course , she goes there and is met with outright hostility by the lady of the house ( Frieda Inescort ) who claims to have no knowledge of the man in question ! ; since Garland has nowhere to stay , Inescort is forced to put her up for the night – with the condition that she doesn’t stray from her room and that she leave the next morning ; however , that night , the heroine sees her host leave the mansion in a car at dead of night and , then , hears someone playing the piano downstairs ( a silly sequence , and such a cliché ! ) – so , she determines to stay and unravel the mystery of " The Cypresses " ; the morning after , she meets a local scientist ( George Macready ) sent by Inescort to find out just how much Garland knows . Needless to say , before long , the leading lady comes face to face with the awful truth : Macready’s cure involving a serum extracted from the hormones of alligators ( ! ) has the unfortunate side-effect that its recipients’ skin starts to turn scaly and their countenance becomes generally reptilian – to be fair to the doctor , his aims were humanitarian rather than morbid curiosity ( such as was the case with the somewhat similar SSSSSSS [ 1973 ] , in which a man is turned into a Cobra ) . Also involved is Lon Chaney Jr . as a burly handyman on Inescort’s property : having had his hand bitten off by a crocodile ( it’s been replaced by a hook ) , he’s frequently given to alcoholic binges – spiced with vitriolic rants – during which he lays waste to every " gator " that crosses his path ( most hilariously of all , he runs one over with his truck while in Garland’s company ! ) ; naturally , Chaney doesn’t take kindly to the titular creatures either . . . especially after his attempted rape of the heroine is thwarted by her husband’s intervention . Predictably , just when Macready is trying the newest and most dangerous experiment to try and revert the transformation , Chaney bursts in and , as per the norm in this type of flick , literally brings the house down : Macready is knocked out , the hero’s over-exposure to radioactivity turns him into a full-fledged croc ( at which sight Inescort – his mother – obviously faints ) , while Chaney is electrocuted when he tries to attack the monster ( eventually causing the lab to explode ) ; the latter flees into the night ( with Garland following ) , fights a host of real alligators , and finally drowns in quicksand ! Back to the couch , the two psychoanalysts decide not to treat Garland ( who actually performs the duties of a nurse at the same clinic ! ) as a patient – since she’s only able to recall her horrible ordeal under hypnosis . Roy Del Ruth ( best-known , if at all , for his fast-paced and light-hearted work of the 1930s ) seems an odd choice here – though he had had another genre entry with PHANTOM OF THE RUE MORGUE ( 1954 ) : while his relative inexperience within the field tends towards a general flatness , he still manages a few weird touches – such as the wardrobe devised to hide the features of The Alligator People . Best of all , the director invests the bayou setting with plenty of atmosphere ( the cinematography is by DR . JEKYLL AND MR . HYDE [ 1931 ] ’s Karl Struss , no less ) – in fact , the film’s highlight is perhaps a night-time sequence in which Garland chases after her husband ( whom she’s just bumped into since her arrival at the plantation ) in the rain , braving attacks by myriad swamp creatures before she’s saved by Chaney ( who lives in a nearby shack ) . Richard Crane isn’t exactly a compelling presence but , thanks to the effective make-up , his plight does elicit audience sympathy . Even so , the crocodile suit seen at the climax is so fake as to border on Camp : it would have been better had the character turned into a common " four-legged gator " rather than a scaly creature that walks upright and is fitted with a pair of pants . . . but that would have made him indistinguishable from the ‘real’ ones ( and I do recall feeling disappointed when the ill-fated hero of SSSSSSS somehow got shrinked to the size of a snake ) ! Garland , as I had also noted in my review of NOT OF THIS EARTH ( 1957 ) , makes for a spirited and credible lead here ; Chaney ( past his prime but not yet reduced to nothing parts ) has a lot of fun with the admittedly one-dimensional ‘gator-hater’ ; perhaps to counter the latter’s hamminess , Macready wisely underplays the Mad Scientist role – incidentally , his " Swamp Buggy " is pretty cool !
BEASTS ? Episode 2 : BUDDYBOY ( TV ) ( Don Taylor , 1976 )	The second entry in this Nigel Kneale-scripted TV series is not up to Episode 1 : the main culprit is an extremely silly ( albeit amusing ) premise of a side-show owner being haunted by the ghost of a dolphin he mistreated because of its individualism ! As the story opens , the place has just been bought by lead Martin Shaw ? which he intends to convert into a porn cinema ( cue some surprising nudity ) ! ; the former owner is anxious to close the deal , so he can be rid of it and its memories , but Shaw wants to bring his own experts to evaluate the lot . Further complications arise when a waif who had once been an employee there ( but who had a special relationship with Buddyboy , the star dolphin which was killed ) is discovered still hanging near the pool area . Shaw is drawn to her passionate yet fragile nature ? and she recreates for him the introduction to a typical dolphin show ; however , when they get together for the night in his apartment ( soon after the definite sale of the property ) , the girl ? seemingly under the influence of Buddyboy ? drowns herself in the bath-tub ? The episode is more notable for its realistic detail ? the seedy locations populated by amoral characters with thick working-class accents ? than the rather insufficient and , consequently , muddled fantasy / animal aspect ; I actually expected the girl to turn into Buddyboy at the end or something : incidentally , the appearances of the dolphin itself ( apart from the occasional disembodied ' voice ' ) are restricted ? once again , presumably , for budget-related purposes ? to just a couple of brief silhouetted instances !
TASTE THE BLOOD OF Dracula ( Peter Sasdy , 1970 )	For being the first Hammer film I ever came into ' contact ' with ? almost 25 years ago I had missed out on a local black-and-white TV screening ? it took me a hell of a long time to actually catch up with it ! ! TASTE THE BLOOD OF Dracula emerges as Hammer's oddest Dracula entry , arguably even more so than the 1970s updatings ; though rather sluggishly paced , the film is too different to be ignored ? even if the execution itself is decidedly clumsy ! Frankly , it was dispiriting to see Christopher Lee's most demeaning stab at his signature role ( especially after recently witnessing his effectively understated contribution to Jess Franco's COUNT Dracula [ 1969 ] ) . While the film opens with an ingenious and arresting reprise of Lee's spectacular demise from Dracula HAS RISEN FROM THE GRAVE ( 1968 ) , his revivification ? a pile of dust cracking open ( ! ) to reveal the vampire ? is kind of laughable ( even if the shot of his blood-red eyes is , in itself , undeniably creepy ) . Otherwise , he's not even all that interested in blood-drinking ? since his main focus seems to be on avenging the death of his disciple ( Ralph Bates ) , while uttering a few lines of witless dialogue ! ! Normally , it would be far-fetched for Dracula to even bother with Bates , but one has to understand that the vampire was supposedly inhabiting his body ? that is to say , here we have virtually the same situation as in FRANKENSTEIN CREATED WOMEN ( 1967 ) . Bates is a compelling presence ( incidentally , his role was intended to be bigger but Hammer thought best to stick with Dracula ? and Lee , begrudgingly , accepted ! ) though he eventually overstays his welcome ? particularly with his weird inflection of the satanic verses spoken during the hysterical titular ceremony , where his scheme to impress a trio of hypocritical ageing thrill-seekers rebounds on himself . Still , following Bates ' uncomfortable exit halfway through , the film goes slowly downhill . The young folk ( with the boys sporting ridiculous haircuts ) are quite boring ? apart from the luscious ( if somewhat plump ) Linda Hayden ? though , for once , they serve a purpose as , rather perversely , Bates ( through Dracula ) uses them to execute his designated victims ! Incidentally , while the kids seem to be inseparable , their parents act like strangers to one another so as to cover their clandestine immoral association ; John Elder has inserted a pointed critique of Victorian society into his script , but it comes off as half-hearted amid the traditionally naive Hammer formula . The version I watched was the recently restored one released to DVD by Warners , which includes previously snipped footage of gore but also has an extended incongruous brothel scene ? complete with effeminate host , a bit of nudity and a completely gratuitous snake dance straight out of a Ken Russell film ! ! One of the prostitutes here is played by Madeleine Smith , who would soon appear in lead roles for Hammer in THE VAMPIRE LOVERS ( 1970 ) and FRANKENSTEIN AND THE MONSTER FROM HELL ( 1974 ) . The climax , then , is a major disappointment : Lee's exit from the desecrated church ( in which he came back to life to begin with ! ) is barred by crucifixes strategically placed by the heroic young couple ? he goes berserk , is hit by a sudden attack of vertigo and just drops dead on the altar ! ! Incidentally , isn't it silly that nobody seems to believe in or even know anything about vampires , but always happen to have some ancient tome in their library on which to fall back on when danger strikes , and immediately turn themselves into expert vampire killers ? The film is , however , blessed with an above-average cast which also includes Geoffrey Keen ( as Hayden's father and the stuffiest of the elderly English ' gents ' ) , Hammer regular John Carson ( as one of his two companions , who loses a daughter to Dracula ) , Roy Kinnear ( as the businessman who finds a way of profiteering even from the remnants of the vampire Count ) ; Michael Ripper has a more interesting role than usual as the police inspector , but he's still underused . Needless to say , we also get the usual Hammer attributes of low-cost production values and a typically effective James Bernard score . Finally , watching the film has decided me on ? at long last ? acquiring HANDS OF THE RIPPER ( 1971 ) , Sasdy's last effort for Hammer , via Network's " Special Edition " R2 DVD . . .
LOVE ON A PILLOW ( Roger Vadim , 1962 )	While their short-lived marriage was long gone , this is the fourth of five Roger Vadim / Brigitte Bardot collaborations and only the second I've watched myself . After opening in a light comedy vein , this rather scrappy film turns into an unappetizingly ponderous melodrama on the lines of LA DOLCE VITA ( 1960 ) , complete with a risibly " beat " orgy sequence and a surfeit of pretentious chat ; nevertheless , the whole is somewhat redeemed by the attractive Italian locations in its second half and the nice musical score throughout . For what it's worth , it tells of a bourgeois girl ( Bardot ) ? shortly to be married to an unassuming young man ? travelling from Paris to Dijon to hear the will of her late aunt , who accidentally stumbles on the suicide attempt of a bohemian , pulp-thriller-loving misanthrope ( Robert Hossein ) who , upon recovering , literally turns her life upside down . The cast is completed by James Robertson Justice ( as Hossein's sculptor friend ) , Macha Meril ( as Robertson's tramp companion ) and , in one sequence , Michel Serrault as a notary . In the end , the original title of THE WARRIOR'S REST sounds far more interesting that what's on offer here and the fact that I was misinformed about the film's running time ? I thought it was a good 22 minutes shorter ! ? did not help to earn it much affection from my end . But , then , the sight of Bardot in her prime ( and , Vadim being Vadim , in various stages of undress as well ) is always welcome . . .
BATTLE CRY ( Raoul Walsh , 1955 )	For all its box-office potential ( notable credits , star cast , epic production ) , this WWII effort in color and widescreen does not seem to enjoy that much of a reputation . Having watched it for myself , I can understand why : the film spends a great chunk of its nearly 2 ½ hours exploring ( or is that exploiting ? ) the dreary love lives of the various members of a marine unit ; this atypical approach may prevent the film from being yet another routine actioner , but , it does comes perilously close to soap opera at times ? which is worse ! Director Walsh was an action expert but , as I said , here this element is relegated to the last 20 minutes or so ; popular novelist Leon Uris's screen adaptation of his own novel was by all accounts a watered-down affair ( actually common practice for Hollywood at the time ) . Incidentally , Walsh would helm the similarly mild film of a classic war novel by another renowned author ? Norman Mailer's THE NAKED AND THE DEAD ( 1958 ) , for which he ' recalled into service ' a number of actors from BATTLE CRY itself . The cast , then , includes established and up-and-coming stars : Van Heflin ( despite being top-billed his role is virtually that of an observer ) , Dorothy Malone , Raymond Massey ( a mere cameo ) , Nancy Olson , Aldo Ray ( who comes off best ) and James Whitmore ( basically retreading ? albeit effectively ? his Oscar-nominated role in BATTLEGROUND [ 1949 ] ) in the former category and William Campbell , Anne Francis , Tab Hunter , L . Q . Jones ( formerly Justus McQueen , he stuck to his character's name here professionally thereafter ! ) , Perry Lopez and Fess Parker in the latter . The narrative features , at least , three ongoing romances : Tab Hunter is even involved with two women ( Mona Freeman , absurdly third-billed , and an unlikely dalliance with frustrated Dorothy Malone ) , bookworm John Lupton has an even less believable relationship with floozie Anne Francis , while tough / beefy Aldo Ray demonstrates his sensitive side when he falls for New Zealander Nancy Olson . These are developed intermittently between the training sessions and the aforementioned climactic action bout ( which despite some obvious stock footage is fairly well handled on a grand scale ) ; joining the various dots , as it were , within this episodic structure is Whitmore's sympathetic narration .
THE BLUE-EYED BANDIT ( Alfredo Giannetti , 1980 )	A surprisingly gripping and unusual thriller on which star Franco Nero also served as executive producer , this emerges as a reasonable mix of characterization and more traditional crime-drama thrills . Nero ? wishing to be free of having to look after his senile mother ? doubles as an ageing , mild-mannered and crippled accountant so he can pull off a robbery ( his small ramshackle apartment is even connected to the building's basement ) . While the one-man heist is successful , he carelessly leaves behind enough clues to arouse the suspicion of a burly security guard at the office , the canteen owner and his sluttish assistant ( Dalila di Lazzaro ) , and even the gay attendant at a sauna he frequents . Unsurprisingly , they all want a piece of the action and Nero is forced to get rid of them ; eventually , it's his own mother ( regaining her senses just enough to recognize Nero from a police identikit in the papers ! ) who unwittingly puts the cops on his trail ? but , since the audience is clearly rooting for the criminal , he's allowed to escape at the end . The film features a bouncy score by Ennio Morricone , though it's not one of his classic soundtracks . By the way , while Giannetti's directorial career produced no notable work , he had earlier won an Oscar for co-writing DIVORCE ? Italian STYLE ( 1961 ) .
The People Under The Stairs ( Wes Craven , 1991 )	This isn't a horror film per se but rather a macabre black comedy , and it also ends up not really being about the titlular ' creatures ' . There are bravura performances from Everett McGill and Wendy Robie , however . It's unusual in having a black kid as hero ( with the film playing almost like a demented version of HOME ALONE [ 1990 ] ! ) ; Ving Rhames also makes an impression as a smart-alec ' brother ' . The script has things to say about poverty and parenthood but it all kind of gets sidetracked by the action and thrills . It's less significant , therefore , than a somber film like THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW ( 1988 ) but also more entertaining . There's even a touch of surrealism when McGill emerges dressed in leather and studs from head to toe and starts blowing holes in the house's walls with a shotgun because one of the ' creatures ' has escaped from the cellar - and there are also a couple of good lines : " If you thought he was white , you should see the sucker now ! " ( in reference to a pal of Rhames who , apparently , has died of fright ) and the boy telling A . J . Langer ( the manic couple's cloistered teenage ' daughter ' ) " Your father is one sick mother . . . actually , your mother is one sick mother , too ! " Ultimately , the film can be seen perhaps as Craven's take on ' old dark house ' chillers ; incidentally , this viewing was preceded by THE CURSE OF THE CAT PEOPLE ( 1944 ) - which also revolves , in part , around this same theme !
THE ASTRONAUTS ( Walerian Borowczyk and Chris Marker , 1959 )	Given the reputation of Borowczyk's animated shorts - which perhaps even swamps that of his features - I was rather let down by my first experience with them ( via this award-winning collaboration with renowned short film-maker Marker ) . Ostensibly , it deals with a scientist's flight into outer space where , among other things , he spies on a young woman ( Ligia Borowczyk ) on his way up and later even saves a small spaceship from attack by a larger one - only for it to destroy his own vessel , which plummets back to Earth ! The unusual animation combines the standard cartoon style with jazzy paper cut-outs and intermittent use of live-action , an approach which reached mass appeal a decade later with the arrival of " Monty Python's Flying Circus " .
THE POWER OF THE RESURRECTION ( Harold D . Schuster , 1958 )	This takes yet another viewpoint ? with the events leading up to Jesus ' crucifixion being recounted to a Christian novice by Simon Peter ( Richard Kiley ) at the time of his own execution . An interesting idea here is that the Jewish High Priests ? who also hate the Romans ? decide to give Christ over to their enemies ( with the aid of the equally misguided Judas ) not because he has put himself up as God but , rather , due to the fact that they're disappointed by his preaching Peace And Love as opposed to brandishing a sword in order to vanquish the oppressors from their land ! Here , of course , we also get to see a good deal of Christ himself ? interacting with Simon Peter , Judas and the rest of the Apostles , and also a bit of the trial before Pilate when Peter denies knowledge of him in the palace courtyard . Before reverting to Peter's own fate , we're also treated to the re-affirmation of faith by the famously doubting Thomas as well as the remaining Apostles ' new-found courage to go out into the streets and preach The Gospel after Pentecost .
BLOOD LINK ( Alberto De Martino , 1982 )	This obscure Italian film ? made in the English language ? mixes typical elements of the giallo with a few sci-fi trappings , and adds to them a doppelganger theme . Incidentally , given that it deals with Siamese twins who haven't been in contact for years but are able to ' see ' what one another is doing , it somehow feels like the long-lost sibling of two Brian De Palma films itself ? coming , as it does , in between his SISTERS ( 1973 ) and RAISING CAIN ( 1992 ) ! Anyway , it's mildly interesting ( even more so for me , being a twin myself ! ) , good-looking ( the film was shot in the U . S . and Germany ) and features an understated Ennio Morricone score ? but , in the long run , emerges as nothing especially remarkable . Besides , even if the supporting cast is decked out with veteran presences ? Geraldine Fitzgerald , Virginia McKenna and Cameron Mitchell ? they're all basically wasted ( McKenna , for instance , is already dead within the first 5 minutes ! ) . The lead is played by Michael Moriarty , an actor noted for his intense performances ? and , here , we get double the dose ( with the star , predictably , hamming it up particularly in his serial-killer characterization ) ! However , he's flanked by two lovely ladies whose contribution is above-average for this sort of thing ? Penelope Milford ( ex-Oscar nominee for COMING HOME [ 1978 ] ! ) as the good Moriarty's girlfriend and Sarah Langenfeld ( in one of only 4 films she did ) as the daughter of has-been prizefighter Mitchell , whose cold-blooded murder at the hands of the bad Moriarty she witnesses . By the way , the film features a surprising amount of nudity ( by the two girls and others ) ? but it's not done in an overly sleazy or exploitative manner . The ' face / off ' situations between the two brothers provide the expected fireworks ; the climax , then , sees Milford distracting the villainous ( and impotent ) Moriarty by letting him rape her ? thus enabling the police to track him down through his brother's ability to recognize the surroundings ! This is followed , however , by a far-fetched CARRIE ( 1976 ) - like twist set in the city morgue . . . but which leads to an effectively unsettling ' curtain ' where Milford is literally unable to tell which brother she's ended up with ! P . S . If all goes well , I should be getting to another of De Martino's horror films ? HOLOCAUST 2000 ( 1977 ) ? in the near future , which is one I've missed out on numerous times in the past . . .
DR . JACK ( Fred Newmeyer and , uncredited , Sam Taylor , 1922 )	Harold Lloyd's third feature-length film can be divided into three loosely-related sections : a ) episodes in the life of a country doctor ( presenting several typical gags while taking swipes at then-fashionable exclusive sanitariums and the nascent psycho-therapy at the same time ) ; b ) the poker game sequence ( which has no real purpose in the film but is also its comic highlight ! ) , and c ) the ' escaped lunatic ' routine ( I don't know if there were actually any ' old dark house'-type films around this time - other than D . W . Griffith's solitary venture into the subgenre ONE EXCITING NIGHT [ 1922 ] - but this was already making fun of them ! ) . While enjoyable and undeniably inventive on occasion , DR . JACK displays a definite drop in quality from its immediate predecessor , GRANDMA'S BOY ( 1922 ) ; Lloyd's next film , then , SAFETY LAST ! ( 1923 ) , not only would see him back on form but actually heralded his greatest period .
PRIVATE POTTER ( Casper Wrede , 1962 )	Though my father owned a novelization of this , the film doesn’t have much of a reputation and , consequently , I missed out on it countless times on Cable TV ( it’s a staple on TCM UK ) . However , ever since watching Joseph Losey’s similar but obviously superior KING AND COUNTRY ( 1964 ) , I’ve wanted to check it out regardless . . . especially since both films feature Tom Courtenay in the lead role ! The latter is a soldier who balks at doing his duty and , as per Military Law , a court-martial . is ordered which will decide his fate : in KING AND COUNTRY , Courtenay’s character deserted and is executed at the end ( despite the valiant defense of Dirk Bogarde ) ; here , he jeopardizes a mission by apparently losing his nerve – an act deemed reckless and which even leads to the death of a fellow soldier ! The opening moments of the film are rather muddled , but interest picks up once the titular character is arrested . To begin with , he’s brought in for questioning in front of his Commanding Officer – whom Potter astonishes by saying that his ‘cowardly’ reaction was due to his having had a vision of God ! At this , the private is considered mad – so , his superiors think of passing him on to a psychiatrist ; however , before taking this step , they request the intervention of a priest . The latter queries Potter about his idea of religion – to which the young man replies that he wasn’t a devout believer . . . so , why would God choose him as a vessel ? Incidentally , Potter’s interrogation is intercut with that ( by a debuting Frank Finlay ) of an injured local – the narrative is set in Cyprus – who had tried to warn his people of the approaching British troops ; by the way , I’ll be watching soon another film dealing with the UK intervention in this country – namely THE HIGH BRIGHT SUN ( 1964 ) and which , coincidentally , stars Dirk Bogarde . Potter – a mild-mannered young man with an unhappy childhood – makes no discernible progress and , eventually , is assigned to a mental hospital ; however , on the way there , he manages to escape . The CO , on his part , goes to see the Brigadier to seek his advise whether to proceed with the court-martial or not ; being a soldier of the old school , he feels only contempt for Potter’s behavior and even asks his subordinate if Potter is a homosexual ! At the end , Potter is returned to base ( after he’s caught taking a bath in a lake ) and receives a visit from the CO wishing him good luck for the upcoming trial . Courtenay – who would eventually reteam with director Wrede for ONE DAY IN THE LIFE OF IVAN DENISOVICH ( 1971 ) – was a fine actor ( albeit with a limited range ) who emerged during the " Angry Young Men " era of British cinema ; this film , as I said in my introduction , isn’t one of his more celebrated – having been superseded by the higher-profile ( and somewhat more absorbing ) KING AND COUNTRY . Having mentioned once more the connection with Losey’s film , I recall comparing that one back then to PATHS OF GLORY ( 1957 ) ; as for PRIVATE POTTER , it reminded me of the Richard Widmark vehicle I watched recently – TIME LIMIT ( 1957 ) , given that both deal with the gathering of facts prior to a court-martial ( rather than with the trial itself ) .
PONTIUS PILATE ( Irving Rapper and Gian Paolo Callegari , 1962 )	Best-known for a string of Bette Davis tear-jerkers , director Rapper had previously overseen another Italian Biblical epic , Joseph AND HIS BRETHREN ( 1960 ) , but he would subsequently direct just two more movies in Hollywood . Despite a general air of overfamiliarity to the proceedings , the film is quite watchable as it unveils ? and only falls apart in its last third , when the Jesus trials take center-stage . This is because the figure of Jesus had only been mentioned fleetingly before ( even by the Pharisees ) and suddenly the whole of Judea turns against him for no apparent reason ( other than , it seems , because that's what did happen according to the Bible ) ! In fact , before this unconvincing about-face , the figure of High Priest Caiaphas ( Basil Rathbone ) was a sympathetic one fighting with dignity for the plight of his oppressed people . Another uncharacteristic event is the fact that , according to this version , it is Judas ( John Drew Barrymore ) who convinces the Pharisees that Jesus is dangerous , and it is they alone who capture him at Gethsemane ! ! Whatever the flaws in the many-handed script ( seven writers in total ! ) , they are redeemed by competent production values and a good cast : Jean Marais ( rather stiff in the title role ) , Jeanne Crain ( as Pilate's wife ) , Leticia Roman ( a Judean girl Pilate falls for ) , Roger Treville ( as Roman's powerful merchant father ) , Massimo Serato ( as Nicodemus ) , Riccardo Garrone ( as Pilate's faithful lieutenant ) , Gianni Garko ( as one of a bald-headed [ ! ] Barabbas ' rebels ) and Raffaella Carra ' ( as Garko's girl ) ; according to the IMDb , Paul Muller and Dante Di Paolo also appear but , personally , I didn't recognize them ! Interestingly enough , the events unfold in flashback at Pilate's own trial before an uncredited Emperor Caligula . . . with the former using the same silent tactics ( and , subsequently , the famous words ) as Christ himself did before him ! !
THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN ( Damiano Damiani , 1975 )	According to the Leonard Maltin Film Guide , this film merits a BOMB and is " indifferently acted ? technically atrocious " ? he must have been thinking of THE KILLER NUN ( 1978 ; see below ) ! What we really have here is an excellent cast of internationally renowned actors involved in a serious , arty exercise in " Nunsploitation " : Glenda Jackson stars as the iron-willed Sister Geraldine who heads a strange hybrid of mental asylum and tourist hostel in Rome , with Adolfo Celi her right-hand man and Father Confessor to the ' inmates ' . The latter are an eccentric set of ecclesiastical misfits ? Francisco Rabal is a communist bishop from Cuba , Arnoldo Foa ' a Polish monsignor who collaborated with the Nazi regime in WWII , etc . ? and wealthy degenerates ? Gabriele Lavia is a Prince unhealthily obsessed with his own sister and so on ; running the day-to-day operations of the establishment with an equally iron fist is Bolivian émigré Lisa Harrow ( who , when married to the local Police Chief , fell for an anarchist and later organized the former's death in an ambush ) . The coming of historian Claudio Cassinelli ( on an invitation by Foa ' , who needs help to write his memoirs in order to exculpate himself in the eyes of his superiors ! ) slowly but surely turns the entire order of things in disarray : contacting Lavia's sister on his behalf against Jackson's specific instructions ( an innocent and trivial action which , indirectly , leads to Lavia's suicide a ' la ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST [ 1975 ] ) , reawakening Harrow's feelings of love for another man ( she had previously turned those onto her pet feline or nightly bouts of masturbation ! ) , etc . Eventually , all of the ' inmates ' are liberated by Cassinelli's presence , revolt and go back out into the real world ? including Harrow who shacks up with the writer himself ; unfortunately , as a result of Jackson's malicious misinformation that she is terminally ill , her long-dormant sexuality blooms into full-blown nymphomania ( which includes sleeping with the , by her own admission , disgusting condominium handyman ) and , while on their way to see a doctor by train , she runs out on her mate altogether ! Some time later , just as he is about to commit himself to a new relationship with the briefly-glimpsed Ely Galeani , Cassinelli returns , on a hunch , to Jackson's hostel and , to his shock , discovers that all the inmates have come back and become their own previous subservient , resigned selves ( he now also finds among them Lavia's gorgeous sister , the woefully underused Adele Sperati ) ! Director Damiano Damiani has made an eclectic bunch of interesting movies over the years and this , while perhaps not among his best work , is certainly one of them , aided in no small measure by another of legendary composer Ennio Morricone's weird , choral scores . From the cast , newcomer Harrow is a revelation ( in every sense of the word , since she indulges in full frontal nudity during that aforementioned handyman encounter ) : this is still her best-known film ? although she would later go on to have a son by actor Sam Neill . Personally , it was a joy for me to watch 3 actors from films I dearly love ? Celi ( THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY [ 1974 ] ) , Foa ' ( THE 100 HORSEMEN [ 1965 ] ) and Rabal ( NAZARIN [ 1959 ] , VIRIDIANA [ 1961 ] , BELLE DE JOUR [ 1967 ] ) ? sparring verbally on screen in their scenes together . One final note : ironically , it may be that this film is not better-known because the two English titles accorded it ( including THE TEMPTER ) were already attached to more popular movies !
SLITHER ( James Gunn , 2006 )	Once one gets past the " Oh , no . . . not another flesh-eating zombie flick " factor , this is quite an engaging and effective mish-mash of Romero's LIVING DEAD films , attacking bugs movies like Jeff Lieberman's SQUIRM ( 1976 ) and even more cerebral stuff like David Cronenberg's SHIVERS ( 1975 ) ! The special / make-up effects here are among the grossest ever - the creature Michael Rooker eventually turns into , the massive fat entity his " girlfriend " becomes and the repeated scenes of bugs entering people's mouths - but this is partially redeemed by a smart script and amiable performances , especially the foul-mouthed Mayor played by Gregg Henry and leading lady Elizabeth Banks as Rooker's wife ; Tania Saulnier's good looks certainly don't hurt either . Having said that , leading man Nathan Fillion is quite bland and his lifeless delivery of lines makes some of the jokes fall flat . . .
THE UNDEFEATED ( Andrew V . McLaglen , 1969 )	The late , great British film critic Leslie Halliwell’s verdict on Howard Hawks’ EL DORADO ( 1966 ) – " Easy going , semi-somnolent , generally likable but disappointing Western . . . an old man’s movie all around " – is a bit harsh in my view but it does rather aptly describe John Wayne’s films from DONOVAN’S REEF ( 1963 ) onwards – with a couple of obvious exceptions . This , then , is one from that professionally made , solidly entertaining and unassuming bunch ; despite having been shown on TV several times over the years , it is not one that I had been familiar with prior to this viewing . The third of five films the Duke would make with director Andrew V . McLaglen , it is not the best but not the worst either : actually , it has a surprisingly good premise – in post Civil War days , a band of Northerners ( led by Wayne , naturally ) take to rustling horses and selling them to the highest bidder ; when that happens to be Emperor Maximilian of Mexico , they take a hard ride down Mexico way which pits them against several odds : the U . S . and the rebel Juaristas-aiding French armies ( who both want to take possession of their herd ) , as well as a proud group of Confederates ( led by a somewhat uncomfortable Rock Hudson ) who have been promised shelter from Maximilian himself . During the course of the journey , tensions and friendships flare up as Wayne’s adopted Native American son falls for Hudson’s daughter and both parties engage in a free-for-all drunken fistfight ( a pre-requisite John Wayne movie ingredient , especially at this stage in his career ) to celebrate the 4th of July . However , when Hudson and his men reach Maximilian territory , they are abducted by the Juaristas who demand the exchange of Wayne’s horses for the Southerners’ lives . Will they comply ? The immediate post-Civil War backdrop provides James Lee Barrett’s script with something to say about tolerance and patriotism ; the rugged , larger-than-life action is set in sprawling locations ( Louisiana and Durango , Mexico ) expertly lighted by frequent Wayne cinematographer William H . Clothier and set to an appropriately grandiose Hugo Montenegro score . The film ( running a longish 118 minutes ) loses some momentum in the second half and the romantic / youthful interest here is a particular liability – but this is countered by some good quips , delivered in Wayne’s typically dry fashion ( especially his classic excuse to shooting a bandit he was supposed to just have a talk with : " The conversation kinda dried up , ma’am " ) ! Of course , it would not be a John Wayne movie if it did not have the benefit of a number of reliable character actors featured in the cast and here we have a pretty colorful one , too : Ben Johnson , Bruce Cabot , Harry Carey Jr . , Paul Fix , Royal Dano , John Agar , Dub Taylor and Pedro Armendariz Jr ; prominent supporting roles are also offered to a very young Jan-Michael Vincent and two professional American football stars , Roman Gabriel and Merlin Olsen . Interestingly enough , Hudson’s role was originally intended for another of Wayne’s stock company of character actors , James Arness ; again , Wayne was injured during the making of the film ( forcing the director to shoot him from a limited number of angles ) but he , ahem , soldiered on because he felt he owed his fans a good show !
The Lovers On The Bridge ( Leos Carax , 1991 )	Being basically the story of a romance among tramps , this sentimental and drawn-out melodrama is filled with repellent detail ( these characters certainly don't emanate from the world of Chaplin or Rene ' Clair ! ) but is held firmly enough together by good performances by the three main actors ( particularly Juliette Binoche , who is quite moving as the sketch artist slowly going blind ) and the odd moment of inspiration : the lovers walking on the ledge of the bridge against the backdrop of a fireworks display ; their putting to sleep the clientele of a café by means of the narcotic previously used by the insomniac boy ; the elderly tramp ? a sort of father-figure to the boy but who also has an inexplicable aversion to the girl ? reminiscing about his manic-depressive wife and the former job he had as the watchman of various cultural sites ; the lovers running naked by the sea silhouetted against the horizon ( and with the boy's erect penis receiving undue attention ! ) ; the boy setting on fire a bunch of posters of the missing girl fixed on the walls of an underground station .
REPO MAN ( Alex Cox , 1984 )	This is a cult sci-fi comedy that is highly regarded in some circles but one which I never had the opportunity to watch before now ; as usual with such ' modern classic ' fare for me , while I liked it well enough , its uneven tone and general bleakness cause it to fall short of its reputation . A punk kid is reluctantly roped in as a Repo Man , a renegade band of people who repossess unpaid-for cars ; their workforce includes world-weary Harry Dean Stanton , secretary Vonetta McGee and philosophical caretaker Tracey Walter . While there's an admittedly witty script replete with four-letter words , we also get some gratuitous grossness ? such as having Emilio Estevez vomiting ( for no good reason ) after a chase on foot ! Typical of writer-director Cox , the soundtrack is full of rock / punk songs ; appropriately , his next film ? SID AND NANCY ( 1986 ) ? would be a biopic of Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious and his notorious girlfriend Nancy Spungen , which I might just acquire anyway now . The sci-fi elements involve an unseen ' alien ' locked inside the trunk of a car which is chased through the streets of L . A . by two rival bands of Repo Men ? a ' la MOTHER , JUGS AND SPEED ( 1976 ) that I've recently watched ? as well as the C . I . A . The meltdown experienced by anyone coming into contact with the ' alien ' resembles the explosively atomic climax of KISS ME DEADLY ( 1955 ) ? and a further tribute to that noir masterwork is the fact that the end credits here likewise read from down to up ! In any case , the flying finish ? with the now-sizzling car soaring skywards ? was a nice touch .
INSURANCE ON A VIRGIN ( Giorgio Bianchi , 1967 )	This is one of a myriad low-brow comedies with a Sicilian backdrop made in the wake of DIVORCE , Italian STYLE ( 1961 ) – with which it shares co-scriptwriter Alfredo Giannetti and co-star Daniela Rocca ( though here she’s made to retain her looks ! ) . Anyway , the plot has both familiar and novel elements : the teenage daughter ( Romina Power ! ) of a poor family is being asked in marriage by a middle-aged aristocrat ( Vittorio Caprioli – not as broadly comic as usual ) . Goaded by a money-grubbing relative ( Leopoldo Trieste ) , the father is made to insure his daughter’s virginity for a year : he will pay 1 million Italian Lire each month and if , by the time the policy term expires , she will have retained her purity , the insurance will award the family 100 million Lire ! Given that practically everyone but Caprioli ( and , naturally , the bank ) knows Power is in love with a local boy – who wishes nothing more than to make her his wife – the family has done this in the event that the relationship between the youngsters is consumed and the wealthy prospective groom rejects her ( incidentally , he himself keeps Rocca as his mistress – who , needless to say , had always hoped she’d be the one to eventually inherit Caprioli’s fortune ) ! Still , to appear in good faith , the family has the girl put into a convent school for the duration – while the boy is sent off to work on an oil rig far away ; besides , all parties concerned ( family , spouse , bank ) , have planted spies in the vicinity of the convent to observe the situation : actually , even here Power rouses the lecherous attentions of the elderly caretaker ( who’s constantly being rebuked by the nuns for it ) ! In any case , Trieste has the upper hand for a while as he manages to have the boy infiltrate the convent grounds ; the latter flees the place with Power in tow ( after having entered the wrong room , he and Power are then embarrassed to be in the presence of religious icons ) . So , they go to the city intent on spending the night together . . . but events don’t go quite as planned here either ; nonetheless , we get a happy ending of sorts – with the kids getting married and Caprioli deciding that Rocca was his ideal partner after all ( the four newlyweds even share the same train during their honeymoon trip ! ) . Though essentially slow-going and rarely laugh-out-loud funny ( being an early example of the rustic comedy type , it’s not as coarse as later outings either ) , all things considered the film emerges a pleasant-looking and generally engaging trifle – kept going by plentiful twists , but also the local color and sounds peculiar to European countries steeped in religious and family traditions .
THE VALLEY OF GWANGI ( James O'Connolly , 1969 )	Likable rehash of KING KONG ( 1933 ) with a traveling sideshow instead of a film crew , Forbidden Valley instead of Skull Island , Mexico instead of New York , and a dinosaur instead of a giant ape ! The film may lack the essential interaction between the heroine and the monster ( the latter seems to be only interested in eating ! ) but substitutes pleasing Technicolor and the eccentric ( yet agreeable ) blending of styles ? being part-Western and part-adventure / mythical fable ! The script dusted off an unfilmed Willis O'Brien project from the early 1940s ? with the necessary elaborate trickwork ( exposed somewhat by the digital transfer , but fully maintaining its make-believe factor and distinctive charm ) handled by Ray Harryhausen , O'Brien's former protégé and who eventually took from him the mantle of cinema's foremost special effects wizard . Perhaps the film's most notable sequence in this regard is when Gwangi the dinosaur is roped by a number of people on horseback ? involving incredible precision in order to match the movement of the monster ( obviously added in later ) with two sets of live-action footage brought together by the split-screen technique ! The narrative introduces three different species of dinosaur ? though , naturally , Gwangi gets the biggest ' role ' ; unfortunately , however , this means that the amiable miniature horse ( mythical ancestor of the much bigger variety prevalent today ) is forgotten after a while ? prior to Gwangi's appearance , it had been intended as the sideshow's new attraction . The cast is okay : James Franciscus plays the rugged hero , Gila Golan the attractive ( if bland ) leading lady , sci-fi veteran Richard Carlson appears as the entrepreneur figure ( though he's never quite the egomaniac that Carl Denham was ! ) , Laurence Naismith ( who comes off best ) is the inevitable anthropologist , while Freda Jackson provides some camp value as a blind and superstitious local woman . The rousing score by Jerome Moross recalls his best-known work ? the large-scale Western THE BIG COUNTRY ( 1958 ) . Though clearly intended as a kiddie film ( with a smart local boy teaming up with con-man Franciscus ) , the antics of the rampaging Gwangi are quite intense and bloody : his ingenious introduction , darting from behind a rock to seize and munch on a dinosaur of a much smaller size , was actually replicated in Steven Spielberg's JURASSIC PARK ( 1993 ) . The climax , then , is highly satisfactory as the dinosaur escapes from captivity in the arena ( cue an endless parade of screaming Mexicans as they run for their lives ! ) but is eventually cornered in a cathedral ? which is convincingly destroyed in the ensuing blaze . P . S . I'm now left with only THE BEAST FROM 20 , 000 FATHOMS ( 1953 ) still to watch from the Harryhausen canon . I hope I can be able to remedy this soon . . .
THE GREAT MOUSE DETECTIVE ( Ron Clements , Burny Mattinson , Dave Michener and John Musker , 1986 )	I recall this being released , but I had missed out on it back then ; consequently , I'd been looking forward to catching up with it ever since ? in view of the subject matter and the distinctive vocal involvement of horror icon Vincent Price in the role of the fiendish Professor Rattigan ( it's ironic , then , that when I finally watched it , his voice was dubbed in Italian ! ) . Anyway , while it was generally engaging and mercifully involved only a handful of songs , I was somewhat let down by it : being only 74 minutes long , the plot was too slight ? and obvious ? to generate the requisite suspense ( still , the way it integrated the kidnapping of a toymaker with Rattigan's intended takeover of the British monarchy was cleverly done ) . While the classic Disney animation style is seldom in evidence ( the visuals being flat overall when they should have been stylized ) , the studio's penchant for anthropomorphized characters is well up to par . Basil and Dr . Dawson are close enough , at least , to Hollywood's typical conception of Conan Doyle's creations ( with the sleuthing rodent using logical ingenuity when cornered by his arch-nemesis and even adopting eccentric disguise during his investigation ) . However , much of the proceedings are stolen by Basil's amiable hound and Rattigan's absent-minded bat ; the climax involving Big Ben , then , proves to be satisfactorily exciting .
OPERATION ST . PETER'S ( Lucio Fulci , 1967 )	This is yet another caper in the broadly comic style of the classic BIG DEAL ON MADONNA STREET ( 1958 ) ; actually , it's a semi-sequel to Dino Risi's THE TREASURE OF SAN GENNARO ( 1966 ) ? via the presence in both of three incompetent thieves ( the movie opens with them drilling through the floor of a building , believing it will lead into a museum but they find themselves inside a prison cell where the hero is currently confined ! ) . Besides , it's one of numerous films in this vein which populated Edward G . Robinson's latter-day career ; one further link to an earlier film is the fact that a previous " James Tont " adventure with the same star , Lando Buzzanca ? which I watched recently ? also involved a theft from the Vatican ( the " St . Peter's " of the title ) . Incidentally , the " Operation " isn't the actual robbery itself ? which , committed on the spur of the moment by Buzzanca in a totally casual manner ( making off with Michelangelo's Pieta ' statue on a fork-lifter in broad daylight ! ) , is treated almost like child's play by director Fulci ( well-known for his anti-clerical views ) ? but rather the ultra-organized ecclesiastical retrieval of the missing item ( which , at one point , is even compared to the work of the Mafia ) ! In fact , we see various priests doing incredible stunts on motor-bikes ( ! ) and such ? which renders the second half of this patchy offering agreeably irreverent . Still , there are a few undeniable belly-laughs : when Buzzanca is forced to confess the crime to a priest by his girlfriend ( they met during a failed " snatch & grab " attempt and with whom she fell immediately in love , since he happens to be a dead-ringer for her late husband ! ) , we hear the man in the confessional tumbling down from fainting ; another is when the trio of crooks are discovered lying about in their hide-out by Buzzanca and a Cardinal ( Heinz Ruhmann ) ? the statue is no longer there , so they think that the men had been murdered by Robinson's gang : however , they had only passed out from over-eating ( given them in exchange for the Pieta ' ! ) , not having had a decent meal in some time ? and , in fact , one of them wakes up just in time to burp vigorously and loudly ! ! ; also , during the lengthy climactic chase , a car with two priests inside is bumped into by another vehicle and torn in half ! ; also , among the parties to set out in pursuit of the thieves , are a group of laid-back and constantly chanting monks who use a derelict truck for the journey ? so that , when they finally arrive on the scene , the operation has just wrapped ! Robinson is given a nice role as a former big shot , but who cracked after being beaten up by his own cronies ( he now flicks between a semi-senile nature and his former bloodthirsty self ! ) ; incidentally , it was rather strange to watch the Hollywood veteran in the presence of scantily-clad female assistant Uta Levka ! Reportedly , Fulci was unimpressed by the actor's legacy and seems to have had had little patience with Robinson when the latter couldn't remember his lines ( incidentally , the director didn't even have a kind word for his own film ? calling it " a piece of crap " ) ! Anyway , also notable in the cast is Jean-Claude Brialy , appearing atypically as a speech-impaired Sicilian ( ! ) stud : though married , he uses his dubious skills as crooner to seduce ( and , consequently , live off ) every rich old lady that crosses his path !
GO , GO SECOND TIME VIRGIN ( Koji Wakamatsu , 1969 )	This one presents an even more depressing ( and pointless ) concept than THE EMBRYO : the film is basically a series of gang-rapes committed on a young girl by a mixed group of wastrels on the roof of an apartment block , separated only by scenes in which the girl is befriended by an unwilling ( and possibly impotent ) hanger-on where they recite poetry and sing songs as a means of coping with their strange predicament ! A couple of similarly violent reminiscences by each of these characters are effectively shown in color , as opposed to the stark monochrome photography of the main events . Despite the abundant nudity on display ( the girl is naked for most of the film's running time ) , the end result is distinctly unerotic ; not surprisingly or , perhaps inevitably , the story resolves itself with bloodshed as the gang is butchered with a knife by the enigmatic boy , after which he and the girl leap off the roof to their death ! !
LEATHERNOSE ( Yves Allegret , 1952 )	I was under the impression that this was a romantic swashbuckler in the vein of CYRANO DE BERGERAC ( 1950 ) , given its deformed protagonist ; the fact that it starred the athletic Jean Marais seemed to point even more in this direction . However , the character it draws most on from the actor's canon up to that time is The Beast ( ugly but desperately in need of love ) in Jean Cocteau's sublime fantasy BEAUTY AND THE BEAST ( 1946 ) ! Actually , the opening sequences of the film are pretty grim ? with Marais picked up half-dead from the battlefield and then discovering that his facial features are ruined . Still , he slowly recovers thanks to the doctor played by Massimo Girotti ? bemoaning his fate , the latter offers Marais some consolation by confessing that he was himself rendered a eunuch by the war ( both actors ' performances are very good ) ! Anyway , the hero soon throws all initial gossip aside and is back at what he does best ? romance every young woman who crosses his path ( rather than squirm at his appearance , which he covers behind a leather strap and eventually a mask , they seem to find him even more fascinating ! ) . That said , his attitude has changed to a more cynical one ? resulting in a number of heartbroken ( and usually married ) women . He's even cruel to the one girl he genuinely loves ( Francoise Christophe ) ; his alienating behavior forces her into a loveless marriage with a much older man ( but who happens to be friends with Marais ) . When the latter's death results to have been an unnatural one , the hero leaves in disgust but is crippled soon after in a riding accident ! He subsequently takes to hiding in a convent ; following a final encounter with the leading lady , he's visited by Girotti ? to whom he admits that life has let him down regardless . Though undeniably stylish , the film is far from the typically breezy costumer ( there are , in fact , no action sequences to speak of apart from the short scene on the battlefield and a stag hunt with dogs which ends in a stream ) and , ultimately , isn't quite in the same league as the contemporaneous FANFAN LA TULIPE ( 1952 ; which , hopefully , is a future Criterion release ) . LEATHERNOSE is let down by a relentlessly verbose script which generally sees the French aristocrats gathered for a hunt , a ball or a dinner engagement discussing the hero's exploits , Marais himself juggling one affair with the next in the middle of the night , and some soul-searching in the clandestine meetings with Christophe ( including a self-unmasking ) . As I said earlier , the star had always been a regular in French costume pictures but he became even more so after the dissolution of his collaboration with the afore-mentioned Jean Cocteau in the early 1950s ? almost as if he set himself up for the title of the French Errol Flynn ! In fact , starting with the film under review , he made a multitude of period pieces / swashbucklers ? including film versions of perennial favorites like THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO ( 1955 ) , LE BOSSU ( 1960 ) , CAPTAIN FRACASSE ( 1961 ) , THE IRON MASK ( 1962 ) , etc . ? but , given that he rarely had notable directors at his disposal , practically all of them are virtually forgotten today . Having said that , Yves Allegret was a distinguished director and this film is indeed pictorially impressive ( courtesy of the black-and-white cinematography of Roger Hubert ) ? although , at times , the beat-up print I viewed was far too dark and murky . Incidentally , Marais and Allegret had previously collaborated on MIRACLES ONLY HAPPEN ONCE ( 1951 ; an Italian TV screening of which I recently missed out on ) .
THE WRECKING CREW ( Phil Karlson , 1969 )	This certainly isn't up to THE SILENCERS ( 1966 ) , being too derivative in nature and uneven in tone , but hardly the terrible film most critics would have one believe ( though I still give them the benefit of the doubt with respect to the remaining two entries in the Matt Helm series ? which I couldn't get my hands on and , consequently , haven't watched ) . As I said , many of the elements found in the original film ( with which it shares director Karlson ) are repeated here ? from Dean Martin's tuneful ( and humorous ) interjections to the gadgets provided by I . C . E . ( which seem to have become progressively sillier ! ) and even the love / hate relationship between Helm and his stunning but ' klutzy ' partner ( played by the ill-fated Sharon Tate : this was her penultimate film ) . As a matter of fact , the glamorous nature of her character is kept under wraps during the film's first half ? allowing the triumvirate of femme fatales ( Elke Sommer , Nancy Kwan and Tina Louise ) to take center-stage ? but Tate's subsequent unforeseen blossoming is all the more effective because of this reason ! The villain is also ideally cast : Nigel Green , who wisely opts to play it straight ; the character of Helm's superior , then , is now played by John Larch ( who even gets in on the action towards the end ! ) . While there's the usual array of car chases and gun-toting action , this entry provides some novelty with its burst of karate fighting ( featuring a debuting Chuck Norris and choreographed by none other than Bruce Lee , though he seems to have been caught on an off-day as these mostly come off as lackluster here ? including a duel between Tate and Kwan , which was a good idea in itself ! ) . As expected , the film generates considerable steam ( notably the bedroom scenes Martin shares with gypsy Louise ? whom Green has dropped in favor of chic Sommer and who has now decided to spill the beans about his involvement in a bullion robbery from a moving train ? and , later , the scheming Sommer herself ) ; however , the fact that Tate would be brutally murdered within months makes her presence arresting ? even when indulging in slapstick situations ( down to imitating Oliver Hardy from WAY OUT WEST [ 1937 ] by unwittingly walking through deceptively shallow waters ! ) . The fourth entry in the " Matt Helm " series does seem to have managed a more elaborate climax than THE SILENCERS , as the action starts in Kwan's club " The House Of Seven Joys " ( at one point , intended as the film's title ? the current credits are even accompanied by a song about it ! ) ? which includes a secret revolving panel leading straight to Green's château ( this location is then destroyed largely through Tate's clumsiness ! ) , continues with a helicopter chase ( built on the spot by Martin , whose parts he conveniently keeps in the booth of his car ! ) and finally relocates to a speeding train ( armed with a trapdoor ! ) being driven by the fleeing Green . Another solid element here , indeed the best thing about the entire film , is Hugo Montenegro's catchy score ( it was pure coincidence that I watched two thrillers scored by him and featuring members of the Rat Pack in quick succession ! ) . Still , there are a number of surefire gags involving Kwan's name ( Yu-rang ? " No , I didn't " , replies Helm at her formal introduction to him ! ) , Martin reversing Tate's victory sign in exasperation when she interrupts his dalliance with Sommer , and Tate borrowing one of Martin's exploding hankies ( which she then throws away in panic in the direction of his car , naturally wrecking it completely in the process ! ) . Again , the ending promotes an upcoming Matt Helm adventure to be entitled THE RAVAGERS ? but which was never made given increasingly diminishing returns at the box-office ( though Helm did return in the form of a TV series starring Anthony Franciosa ) ! Tying this up with the Frank Sinatra / Tony Rome vehicle LADY IN CEMENT ( 1968 ) , which preceded my viewing of THE WRECKING CREW , there was talk at the time of bringing together the two Rat Packers once again in the guise of Helm and Rome ? but the idea was subsequently dropped and , in any case , the mood of each individual series is so different that it's hard to see how they could have coalesced convincingly ?
THE BIG CIRCUS ( Joseph M . Newman , 1959 )	This was all-too-obviously modeled by producer Irwin Allen on Cecil B . De Mille’s prestigious ( and surprising ) Oscar triumph THE GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH ( 1952 ) ; consequently , the script is cliché-ridden , contrived and corny – but the end result is still professionally assembled and definitely not unentertaining for undiscriminating film buffs . The stars ( Victor Mature , Red Buttons and Rhonda Fleming ) are easily overshadowed by the character actors ( Gilbert Roland , Peter Lorre and Vincent Price ) ; the latter two’s casting may be construed as a red herring given the presence of a saboteur – a rival’s lackey – amidst the troupe . Incidentally , Lorre has the old James Stewart clown role and Gilbert Roland ably steps into Cornel Wilde’s aerialist shoes ; his all-important " crossing the Niagara " stunt is a ( back-projection ) highlight . Similarly , the initial animosity between Mature and ‘interlopers’ Fleming and Buttons predictably blossoms into , respectively , romance and familiarity ( due to Buttons becoming engaged to Kathryn Grant , Mature’s younger would-be trapeze artist sister ) . Along the way , the circus is hit by potential bank foreclosure , a lion set loose during a press conference , haystacks set ablaze , a fatal train-wreck , a trapeze artist losing his nerve during a performance , etc . The circus is also seen to move with the times – so that beleaguered owner Mature manages to bring his show to the people ( rather than the other way around ) , via the nascent medium of television , when bouts of thunderstorms hit their scheduled stops !
THE LAST ADVENTURE ( Robert Enrico , 1967 )	Out of an Alain Delon three-film marathon , this was the one I was most looking forward to but , surprisingly , ended up being the most disappointing . The fact that the Italian TV broadcast suffered from intermittent instances of bad reception had a lot to do with this , I guess , but I also found the film ( which was adapted from a novel by crime expert Jose ' Giovanni , dealing with a search for treasure lost at sea ) rather an inconsequential trifle ! Still , the proceedings are considerably bolstered by attractive locations , the delectable Joanna Shimkus ( even if her character , who hitches with stars Delon and Lino Ventura far too quickly , is killed off half-way through ) and Francois de Roubaix's delightful score . Delon ? playing a dashing , reckless flier ? is his typically inexpressive self , but Ventura is as strong as ever as his inventor / racing-car enthusiast partner ; also notable is Serge Reggiani as a nervous yet shifty hanger-on who eventually reveals the exact whereabouts of the crashed airplane in which the loot is stashed . Incidentally , the abandoned fortress in mid-ocean ( Shimkus dreams of owning it , but which is eventually purchased by Ventura after her demise with his share of the recovered fortune ) is a great setting ? which director Enrico ably employs for the film's action climax ( even if the gangsters who assault Ventura and Delon , who are also after the money , make for a bunch of anonymous villains ) .
LA CAMBIALE ( Camillo Mastrocinque , 1959 )	I hadn't watched a film with the great Italian comic Toto ' ( still largely unknown outside his native country ) in about 8 months but , during the Summer season , Italian TV always schedules some of his stuff . While none of his countless vehicles is a particularly outstanding film ( this happens to be the 50th I've watched in the mere 3 years I've been a fan of his work ! ) , they're generally palatable and sometimes quite pleasant , with the actor's broad gestures and way with dialogue always sure to provide laughs aplenty and the odd moment of inspiration . This one , however , has the distinction of co-starring two Italian stars of the higher ranks - Vittorio Gassman and Ugo Tognazzi - and the leading lady is " Euro-Cult " favorite Sylva Koscina . An episodic film with a familiar concept involving an IOU made by a corrupt financier , which changes hands numerous times during the course of the narrative , perhaps its best scenes are the ( separate ) ones in which Toto ' - and frequent sparring partner Peppino De Filippi - and Ugo Tognazzi ( flanked by Raimondo Vianello ) appear - with the most amusing moments being when the latter couple are beaten up after a wrestling match and when the former realize that they will be offering false testimony ( for gain ) on both sides of a court case !
PITTSBURGH ( Lewis Seiler , 1942 )	The star trio of THE SPOILERS ( 1942 ) ? Marlene Dietrich , Randolph Scoot and John Wayne ? were re-united for this one , but the resulting film isn't as satisfactory or as well-regarded as that brawling Western saga . However , PITTSBURGH ( which , naturally , deals with the coal industry ) is still quite entertaining and , indeed , somewhat better than Leonard Maltin's unflattering review would suggest ? he even calls it " slow " when , if anything , I'm of the opinion that the epic narrative involved ( spanning several years ) felt rushed in the film's standard 91-minute duration ! That said , the film has problems : for one thing , Dietrich isn't believable as a coal-miner's daughter ; also , being a wartime effort , it resorts to flag-waving in order to smoothen the conflicts between the various characters . In fact , Wayne is depicted as something of a tyrant ( anticipating but not matching his role in Howard Hawks ' classic Western RED RIVER [ 1948 ] ) . Finally , reading the film's credits through , I couldn't help noticing the curious connection it has with the horror genre ? not only would three cast members ( Louise Albritton , Frank Craven and Samuel S . Hinds ) appear together again in SON OF Dracula ( 1943 ) , but cinematographer Robert De Grasse later shot the Val Lewton masterpiece THE BODY SNATCHER ( 1945 ) , while editor Paul Landres eventually graduated to director and helmed both THE VAMPIRE ( 1957 ) and THE RETURN OF Dracula ( 1958 ) !
THE HOUSE THAT VANISHED ( Jose ' Ramon Larraz , 1973 )	This is the fourth film of Joseph ( the Anglicized version of Jose ' Ramon ) Larraz I'm watching and possibly the most conventional and least rewarding so far . For the record , the film shares its screenwriter Derek Ford ( who later became an exploitation director himself ) with a film I've also just watched for the first time during this Halloween challenge ? Peter Sykes ' VENOM ( 1971 ; see above ) . The heroine is a gorgeous blonde played by Andrea Allan : thankfully , 1970s British genre cinema was virtually a haven for such starlets , even if only a handful ever made it to the top ( while the greater majority were hardly ever heard of again ) ! Like VAMPYRES ( 1974 ) , nudity here is bountiful ( in all senses of the word ) including a surprisingly steamy encounter between the disturbed sculptor / murderer ( Karl Lanchbury , who also appeared in Larraz's subsequent erotic vampire flick ) and his mentor / aunt ( ! ) ? although the ever iconoclastic Luis Bunuel would go one better the following year in THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY by showing a young man sleeping with his own grandmother ! ! Incidentally , it seemed silly to me to have the heroine here jumping straight into a romantic attachment with a complete ? to say nothing of wimpish ? stranger ( who , conveniently , turns out to be the killer ! ) after having not just witnessed a cold-blooded murder but also having had her unreliable boyfriend disappear on her for good ! The expected ' red herring ' character is here supplied courtesy of Peter Forbes-Robertson's eccentric birdwatcher neighbor . Incidentally , the photographic models milieu is extremely typical of such European thriller fare ? and the film's bland treatment of it certainly adds nothing new to the formula . Also quite inevitably , the film went through various title changes : the original one was SCREAM ? AND DIE ! but , apart from the one I watched it under which is listed above , it was further hyperbolically dubbed PSYCHO SEX FIEND .
SILVER SADDLE ( Lucio Fulci , 1978 )	The third and last of Fulci's Spaghetti Westerns ( coming at the tail-end of the genre ) - not up to the vintage MASSACRE TIME ( 1966 ) but preferable to the disappointing and unpleasant THE FOUR OF THE APOCALYPSE ( 1975 ) - with a distinct kiddie interest , since the violence isn't particularly graphic . In fact , even if star Giuliano Gemma ( perhaps best known for two " Ringo " Westerns ) is given the possibility of a couple of romances , the central relationship involves him and the young nephew of his sworn enemy ! As such , it emerges as unremarkable but surprisingly engaging , with a pleasant soundtrack and able support from Geoffrey Lewis ( as Gemma's sidekick , a more likable version of the slimy bounty-hunters played by Strother Martin and L . Q . Jones in Sam Peckinpah's THE WILD BUNCH [ 1969 ] ) , Ettore Manni ( as the chief villain ) and Aldo Sambrell as a Mexican bandit-leader .
CHARLIE CHAN IN Paris ( Lewis Seiler , 1935 )	Despite a promising start with the energetic Apache ballet , this film is virtually a retread of CHARLIE CHAN IN London ( 1934 ) with its plot about coveted wives , duplicitous subordinates , drunken cronies , young lovers in peril , etc . The plot has possibilities ( especially with the introduction of the sinister Marcel Xavier character and his eventual comeuppance ) but ends up being less interesting than expected ! It's still fun and the lightning pace , ultimately , works to the film's advantage . Furthermore , the introduction of Chan's son as his assistant in the investigation will come to be a trademark of the series .
WAR HUNT ( Denis Sanders , 1962 )	John Saxon has a memorable role as a black-faced , gun-crazy soldier who volunteers for solitary nightly ambushes on the enemy until he finally cracks up completely and wants to be left behind in Korea . The film also marked the screen debuts of Robert Redford ( as the clean-cut rookie hero who stands up to Saxon’s fearsome grip on his unit ) , Sydney Pollack ( a rare early acting stint for him as a sympathetic sergeant ) and Tom Skerritt ( as a cheerful sergeant ) ; of course , the latter would later appear in the ultimate Korean War movie , Robert Altman’s M . A . S . H . ( 1970 ) . Other cast members include Tommy Matsuda ( as an orphaned Korean boy taken under Saxon’s wing and unwisely befriended by Redford ) , Charles Aidman ( as the Captain who often covers for Saxon’s insubordination given the importance of the information he gathers from his nightly rounds ) and Gavin MacLeod ( who advises Redford to steer clear of the highly-strung Saxon ) . Being set during the final days of the Korean War , the film features the deceptive and ironic musical interludes played on loudspeakers by the teasing enemy prior to the inevitable combat ; despite its obviously modest budget and low-key nature , it is effectively shot in gritty , black-and-white by veteran cinematographer Ted McCord and nicely scored by Bud Shank . On the other hand , co-producer Terry Sanders was an award-winning documentarian who seemingly brought to the film an unusually sensitive and anti-militaristic outlook , while his brother Denis was an occasional feature film director – including the sci-fi / exploitation flick INVASION OF THE BEE GIRLS ( 1973 ) – who had previously co-written the screenplay for Raoul Walsh’s WWII epic THE NAKED AND THE DEAD ( 1958 ) . Trivia note : reportedly , Francis Ford Coppola appears uncredited as a truck driver ; also , the film’s associate producer ( Noel Black ) later became an erratic director himself – most notably of PRETTY POISON ( 1968 ) .
TOTO ' , PEPPINO E LE FANATICHE ( Mario Mattoli , 1958 )	As with many films of its era , this is a satire on the Italian " boom " and the nth pairing of its star duo - which generally made for an assured pleasant diversion . Toto ' and Peppino are henpecked husbands who are driven off the wall by their respective families ' obsession with progress and end up in an asylum , giving way to various amusing flashbacks to their domestic and professional mishaps . The film's last third is devoted to a gala night , highlighting popular musical talent of the period ; actually , crooner / actor Johnny Dorelli is featured as the secondary lead ( playing Peppino's son ) - who , naturally , falls for Toto''s daughter . . .
BAD SANTA : THE UNRATED VERSION aka BADDER SANTA ( Terry Zwigoff , 2003 )	Disappointing ( I've only watched Zwigoff's GHOST WORLD [ 2001 ] and am most interested in CRUMB [ 1994 ] ) : fitfully amusing but ugly and overly crude , even obnoxious . Once the film makes its point - that of foul-mouthed , alcoholic wastrel Billy Bob Thornton as the antithesis of a Santa Claus impersonator - it doesn't really do anything with it : the main development concerns his unlikely relationship with the obese and lonely boy and , while this section provides a good deal of chuckles ( especially the painful boxing match ) , it's mostly condescending towards the latter . . . so that it's not much different from the rest ( the bittersweet ending , then , doesn't really work ) ! Still , the constant sparring between Thornton and Tony Cox ( as his colored dwarf sidekick and partner-in-crime ) - basically resorting to the uninterrupted spouting of obscenities ! - definitely makes for some lively ( if , decidedly , repetitive ) banter . From the supporting cast , Lauren Graham as Thornton's girlfriend comes off best ( no pun intended ) ; John Ritter ( whose last completed film this proved to be ) doesn't have a lot to do , while Bernie Mac is almost as unsavory a character as Thornton himself ; Cloris Leachman contributes an uncredited and rather embarrassing minor role as the boy's senile grandmother . Surprisingly , the " Director's Cut " is the reportedly less explicit 88-minute version - rather than the 99-minute " Unrated " one ( though even this didn't turn out to be quite as " naughty " as I had anticipated ) !
CIMARRON ( Wesley Ruggles , 1931 )	This famous early Western epic ( from the Edna Ferber novel , remade ? disappointingly ? by Anthony Mann in 1960 ) , whose impact has been severely diminished with the passage of time , is mainly noted nowadays for being the genre's first and , for over sixty years , only Best Picture Oscar winner . Having watched the film for myself now , its flaws essentially boil down to three things : creakiness , cliché and casting . A good deal of the product that emerged during the first few years of the Talkie era are marked by a crippling stodginess ( even though some of them , largely thanks to an imposing visual style , managed to overcome this pitfall ) but , regrettably , CIMARRON is not one of them . Spanning 40 years , the episodic narrative ( accentuated by the sprawling scenery and occasional action bout ) generally commands attention throughout and , yet , it is undeniably hampered by a surfeit of melodramatic and barely plausible incident ( notably the restless hero's comings and goings , thus deserting his family for long stretches at a time ever in search of adventure , without batting an eyelid ) . Besides , characters are often so thinly-sketched that one is able to recognize the prototype the minute a particular face appears on screen : take Roscoe Ates as a stuttering printer , or Stanley Fields as the all-too-obvious heavy , to say nothing of Edna May Oliver as an eminent but presumptuous citizen of the new-born town of Osage . Even so , leads Richard Dix and Irene Dunne ? in spite of the Oscar nomination they both landed ? are not much better , with Dix's florid portrayal ( forever on the point of being upstaged by his over-the-top coiffure ) faring worst in this regard ? and wait till you see him yapping defiantly in the villain's face ! For all its shortcomings , the film clearly retains historical value for buffs even today ? comparable , in fact , to two other archaic ( but equally impressive-looking ) contemporaneous genre efforts i . e . IN OLD ARIZONA ( 1928 ) and THE BIG TRAIL ( 1930 ) , both of which I watched not that long ago .
EUREKA ( Nicolas Roeg , 1983 )	Despite intermittent evidence of Roeg's usual quality , this film can be seen as the beginning of his decline : it's interesting , certainly ambitious but , ultimately , unsatisfying . Surprisingly enough , it's not as cryptic as the director's earlier work though still not for all tastes ( particularly given an irrelevant voodoo dance sequence involving a snake-infested orgy ) . The script is by ex-film critic Paul Mayersberg who had already written THE MAN WHO FELL TO EARTH ( 1976 ) for Roeg . The film , which could comfortably be divided into three parts , is aided by a plethora of talent both in front - Gene Hackman , Theresa Russell , Rutger Hauer , Jane Lapotaire , Ed Lauter , Mickey Rourke , Joe Pesci and Joe Spinell ( a bit part as a thug ) - and behind the camera ( cinematographer Alex Thompson and composer Stanley Myers ) . The first part , in which Hackman strikes it rich , is the best with two scenes that are particularly memorable : a despairing prospector blowing his head off in front of Hackman and , then , when the latter discovers the gold mine - an almost mystical sequence ; however , one still has to contend with Helena Kallianotes ' eccentric performance as a fortune teller / whore who befriends Hackman . The second part , in which we see Hackman twenty years on as a tycoon with a family - all-powerful but emotionally void : this section creates some added tension with Hackman's clashes with playboy Hauer ( who marries his daughter , Russell , without her father's consent ) and unscrupulous business partners Pesci and Rourke , and culminates with his violent death ( quite a graphic sequence , occurring about 80 minutes into the 130-minute picture ! ) at the hands of the latters ' thugs . The third and final part , then , involving Hauer's trial for Hackman's murder is the least compelling - given the latter's obvious absence , but also the silly contrivances which dominate this section ( and particularly the preposterous scene of Russell's hysterics on the witness stand , with Hauer acting as his own defense attorney ! ) . EUREKA was shot in 1981 but the company that financed it couldn't make head or tail of it and decided to shelve the film ; eventually , it was released in the U . K . in 1983 ( I own a copy of the " Movies & Video " magazine from that time , which carries a reasonably favorable review of the film ) and , according to " Leonard Maltin's Film Guide " , didn't open in the U . S . until 1985 !
THE VALIANT ( Roy Ward Baker , 1962 )	This was one of a number of Italian WWII-set collaborations with English-speaking countries , a couple of which I watched recently ? namely THE CAPTIVE CITY ( 1962 ) and TORPEDO BAY ( 1963 ) . While the handling is fairly dull , the film's main plot develops into a sustained suspense situation as a British vessel ( commandeered by stiff-upper-lipped John Mills ) is planted with explosive charges by Italian naval officer Ettore Manni and his ( wounded ) companion , who are then imprisoned on the ship itself after refusing to give details of their mission including the whereabouts of the bomb itself . An underwater search at night fails to reap the desired results and Mills ? with the help of officer Robert Shaw ( who's married to an Italian girl ) ? determines to retrieve the necessary information which could save the ship and the life of more than a thousand men on it . Doctor Liam Redmond opposes his treatment of the P . O . W . s , but remains on board to cure the injured man even after the vessel has been evacuated . The explosion eventually occurs early the next morning ? when the ship was scheduled to set sail for war duty ; the film , then , ends with Mills awarding Manni for his integrity and loyalty to his cause three years after the fact . As I said , the film is generally interesting ( like the same director's DON'T BOTHER TO KNOCK [ 1952 ] , it's mostly confined to a single setting ) though the interrogation / confrontation scenes do get repetitive ; it's also bogged down by resistible comic relief provided by two marines appointed to guard the saboteurs . P . S . I'd love to revisit Mills ' previous effort with Baker ( in all , they worked six times together ) i . e . the eccentric psychological Western THE SINGER NOT THE SONG ( 1961 ) ? which I acquired some time ago .
THE GIRL IN THE RED VELVET SWING ( Richard Fleischer , 1955 )	This is a glossy melodrama ( scripted by Charles Brackett , who also produced , and Walter Reisch ) about a famous early 20th century crime of passion . The love triangle comprises Ray Milland ( ideally cast but who isn’t particularly stretched by his role of architect Stanford White ) , Joan Collins ( in one of her better Hollywood parts – by the way , the real-life Evelyn Nesbitt acted in a few Silents herself and served as a consultant on this film ! ) and Farley Granger . The latter is a revelation : usually playing self-effacing types , here he’s arrogant , temperamental and possessive ; he reminded me of Robert Ryan’s equally neurotic millionaire in Max Ophuls’ CAUGHT ( 1949 ) . Besides , Granger’s jealous probing into Collins’ past relations on their wedding night basically replicated a scene from Luis Bunuel’s EL [ 1952 ] ; and , likewise , his murder of the Milland character over Collins presents a similar situation to a subplot in the Pre-Code BABY FACE [ 1933 ] – which , interestingly enough , I watched the very next day ! Fleischer handles the proceedings efficiently enough ( he was certainly adept at real-life crime stories , as his later dramatizations of the lives of other infamous murderers such as Leopold and Leob , Albert De Salvo and John Christie – in COMPULSION [ 1959 ] , THE BOSTON STRANGLER [ 1968 ] and 10 RILLINGTON PLACE [ 1970 ] respectively – can attest ) but , here , he’s somewhat bound by the commercially-minded formula approach of the studio system which , for instance , necessitated the inclusion of corny musical numbers . . . even if Collins’ character does start off as a dancer in a variety act . Unfortunately , too , the courtroom scenes aren’t the most compelling ever put on film – but they’re nonetheless elevated by Luther Adler’s presence as Granger’s defense attorney . Another valued appearance is that of author Cornelia Otis Skinner : this was one of only 4 films she did ( which include the classic ghost story THE UNINVITED [ 1944 ] , also with Milland , and the existentialist drama THE SWIMMER [ 1968 ] , starring Burt Lancaster ) ; she has one interesting scene towards the end where Granger’s mother recounts his overly-protected childhood to Collins , and which inevitably marked his character forever . Collins’ mother , then , is nicely played by veteran character actress Glenda Farrell . While THE GIRL IN THE RED VELVET SWING has been a regular on Italian TV over the years , I had first watched it as a kid ; I decided to check the film out again now in view of Fox’s upcoming SE DVD , as part of THE JOAN COLLINS COLLECTION . By the way , the final scene – with Collins doing the titular stage act for impresario Emile Meyer , who’s eager to exploit her new-found notoriety – ends the film on a satisfyingly ironic note .
A VIEW FROM THE BRIDGE ( Sidney Lumet , 1961 )	Based on a play by Arthur Miller , the film is very typical of its era ( where many such classic plays were adapted for the screen ) but also characteristic of director Lumet - who was constantly striving to push barriers ( among the themes touched upon here are incest and homosexuality ! ) and always put his greatest emphasis on the acting . In fact , the cast here is an eclectic but surprisingly effective mix of American , French and Italian actors ( though set in Brooklyn , the film was actually shot in France ! ) - with Raf Vallone especially impressive in his difficult role . The film's dock-side setting ( gloomily photographed by Michel Kelber ) recalls , to a certain extent , ON THE WATERFRONT ( 1954 ) - though this is more of a domestic melodrama ; still , the final confrontation between Vallone and Raymond Pellegrin ( with its tragic aftermath ) reaches a fine pitch of tension .
FAST TIMES AT RIDGEMONT HIGH ( Amy Heckerling , 1982 )	While not generally into teen comedies , I had decided to check the film out several years ago on Italian TV given its high rating on the Leonard Maltin guide ; having attained something of a cult reputation in the interim , and not being quite sure of what I had made of it at the time , I recently rented Universal’s SE DVD . Adapted by future film-maker Cameron Crowe from his own novel ( culled from a year-long research into the subject by apparently enrolling incognito into high school ! ) , the movie also incorporates his love of rock music ( as later seen in the autobiographical ALMOST FAMOUS [ 2000 ] , inspired by his exploits as " Rolling Stone " magazine’s youngest contributor ) . He brings undeniable insight into the sex-starved lives of teenagers which , with the little it has changed in the intervening years , I guess makes the film just as relevant today as the day it came out ; the problem is that the whole has little appeal outside of its intended audience ( which , at 32 , I can’t really relate to despite not having a family of my own ) ! The film is notable for its frank depiction of sexual encounters and its cast of youngsters , many of whom would soon hit the big time – Sean Penn as the constantly-doped surfer , Jennifer Jason Leigh as the virginal student , Phoebe Cates as her luscious and experienced best friend , Judge Reinhold as Leigh’s brother ( who has a tough time keeping jobs at various fast-food chains ) , Forest Whitaker as a football star and , in bit parts , Eric Stoltz and Nicolas Cage ( billed Coppola ) . Among the elders , the most prominent are Ray Walston as the disciplinarian ( even vindictive ) U . S . history teacher – who’s constantly at loggerheads with Penn – and Vincent Schiavelli as the biology professor . In the long run , however , the final verdict is that there are better movies of its ilk out there : NATIONAL LAMPOON’S ANIMAL HOUSE ( 1978 ) is more memorably irreverent and PORKY’S ( 1981 ) is bawdier and funnier .
THE BLACK CAMEL ( Hamilton MacFadden , 1931 )	Primitive but fairly engaging Charlie Chan mystery , the first surviving film featuring Warner Oland as the genial Oriental detective : its major draws are the Hawaiian backdrop , the murder investigation centering around Hollywood elite and the interesting cast ( including Bela Lugosi as a phony mystic , Dwight Frye as an impulsive butler named Jessup , and a pre-stardom Robert Young forming half of the bland romantic interest ) . Some of its greatest pleasure , then , derives from the interaction between Oland and Lugosi ? but also the former's relentless amiable mocking of his earnest but dim-witted assistant . The surprising denouement is not entirely plausible ( though seemingly anticipating Hitchcock's STAGE FRIGHT [ 1950 ] ) ? with a revelation concerning Lugosi's true identity , and where the presence of a second murderer is ultimately established . By the way , the film's title ? as explained by Chan ? is a metaphor for death when it arrives unexpectedly . P . S . As was the case recently with HORROR ISLAND ( 1941 ) , my second attempt at watching THE BLACK CAMEL proved more successful than the first ? where the playback had frozen completely three-quarters of the way in ? and left me curious about the eventual solution of the case !
DOCTOR AT SEA ( Ralph Thomas , 1955 )	The second in the popular British comedy series already shows signs of flagging from the class evident in the original film . For one thing , the change of setting proves a bit of a quandary : it both opens up and cramps the jokes ( while generally ship-bound , we do get a stretch on dry land ? which sees the hero first involved with a drunken blonde and falling foul of her father and then put to jail for being ' under the influence ' himself ! ) . Incidentally , while Dirk Bogarde reprises his role of Simon Sparrow , both James Robertson Justice and George Coulouris ( who were also in DOCTOR IN THE HOUSE [ 1954 ] ) play new characters here ? the former's gruffness , while amusing at first , borders on caricature eventually ; similarly , Brenda de Banzie's middle-aged passenger ( pampered daughter of the seafaring company's President ) is somewhat over bearing , evoking memories of Kay Walsh in an episode from the portmanteau film TRIO ( 1950 ) . Bogarde's love interest , then , is rather incongruously filled by Brigitte Bardot ? who's undeniably attractive but not yet the sex symbol of subsequent repute ( although she does get to be seen taking a shower at one point ) . Gags and innuendo sometimes approach the broad humor one normally associates with the rival " Carry On " series ( which was actually still three years away from its inception ) and CARRY ON CRUISING ( 1962 ) in particular ( both films , in fact , culminated in a party on deck which ends in disaster ) .
EYEWITNESS ( John Hough , 1970 )	I had long wanted to watch this British thriller because it was entirely filmed in Malta ; now , it followed on the heels of two other films shot over here – THE LAST SHARK ( 1981 ) and the somewhat similar TRENCHCOAT ( 1983 ) . Naturally , all three were proudly shown on local TV when I was a kid but , back then , I had only caught Enzo G . Castellari’s notorious JAWS ( 1975 ) rip-off . The plot of EYEWITNESS ( released in the U . S . as SUDDEN TERROR ) is inspired by the classic low-budget noir THE WINDOW ( 1949 ) , which I only watched for the first time some three months ago – that of a boy with a very vivid imagination who’s not believed by his family when he tells them he had witnessed a murder but , of course , the villain can’t leave anything to chance and decides to eliminate him . While the earlier film worked because of its intimate nature – it was set in an apartment building – this one ( adapted for the screen by future Oscar winner Ronald Harwood ) involves a more elaborate set-up , since the murder ( of a visiting African leader ) was committed in broad daylight and in plain sight of the authorities ! Actually , the perpetrator is immediately revealed to be none other than a policeman – which takes the whole clearly into Hitchcock territory ; while there are plenty of suspense sequences typical of the Master , director Hough put his own stamp on the material by a surprisingly flashy style ( all zooms and odd angles ) as well as a rather vicious streak ( no one , not even a little girl and a priest , who’s unlucky enough to get in the way of the killer’s ultimate intent is spared ! ) . This , however , is the film’s main flaw ( though it’s equally hampered by gaudy 1970s fashions – especially the oversize dark glasses and tacky clothes sported by an associate of the murderer who comes himself to a sticky end at the latter’s hands ) : too many turn-of-events feel decidedly implausible , not least police chief Jeremy Kemp’s all-too-sudden realization that the real target of the assassination was himself – which brings him to narrow the search for the assassin down to dissidents within his own ranks . . . and , just as quickly , is willing to take the young boy’s tale at face value when no one else does ( which , naturally , puts him on the trail of the killer and is thus able to save the kid and his family in the nick of time ) ! Incidentally , my father ( who is a film buff himself and used to work as postman ) once told us that he had personally handed a letter to the craggy-faced English actor and , I presume , that occurred sometime during the shooting of this film ! The casting , apart from that of blond-haired adult hero Peter Bonner ( as a character named Tom Jones ! ) , is quite effective : Mark Lester – riding high on the success of the multi Oscar-winning musical OLIVER ! ( 1968 ) – is the boy , Lionel Jeffries his typically eccentric grand-father ( a former General who has taken to living inside a light-house ! ) , Susan George as Lester’s elder sister ( looking lovely as always , though her trademark earthiness is bafflingly – and disappointingly – kept under wraps ) and Peter Vaughan as the dogged and sinister killer cop ( he and George would be reteamed not long after for Sam Peckinpah’s controversial STRAW DOGS [ 1971 ] ) . By the way , John Hough kept the Maltese connection going for his subsequent effort – since the TWINS OF EVIL ( 1971 ) of his notable Hammer outing , Madeleine and Mary Collinson , were of Maltese origin ! Incidentally , of the myriad films shot in my country over the years , this is surely among the ones to make the most judicious use of our locations – the sea-shore ( with prominent salt-flats set against an amazing sunset : indeed , cinematographer David Holmes is to be congratulated for his sterling work throughout ) , old expansive buildings turned into offices , public gardens ( a notable chase on foot just after the initial assassination was filmed at the Upper Barrakka Gardens in our city of Valletta , which is where the Bank I work for holds its yearly Summer cocktail party for staff members ! ) catacombs , military forts ( for the scene in which the villains are kept at bay via a flurry of Molotov cocktails ) and cliffs ( to where the exciting climactic car chase leads for the grand finale ) . Typical of the era , too , the film is given a pop / rock soundtrack – with the result ( despite the involvement of cult band Van Der Graaf Generator ) being pleasant yet unremarkable .
MASSACRE IN THE BLACK FOREST ( Ferdinando Baldi and , uncredited , Rudolf Nussgruberg , 1967 )	This middling peplum is one of a myriad genre efforts which American actor Cameron Mitchell appeared in throughout the 1960s . As was the custom , the Italian names in the credits were Anglicized for the foreign market ? sometimes comically so with , for instance , Lucky Stetson as cinematographer ( even the director became Ferdy Baldwin ) ! Incidentally , the film is a German-Italian co-production ? and the cast , apart from the obligatory American star , includes performers from both these countries ( with a Rutger Hauer lookalike for the German villain , an allegedly legendary historical character , Antonella Lualdi ? from Vittorio Cottafavi's splendid THE 100 HORSEMEN [ 1964 ] ? as his lover and , again , a German actress providing Mitchell's tentative romantic interest ) . The plot ? to say nothing of the wintry settings ? recalls THE FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE ( 1964 ) , one of Hollywood's finest spectacles from this era ; the result is equally glum and , similarly , features an ominous score atypical of the genre . The film , then , is highlighted by two spectacular ( if uninspired ) battle sequences ? the first depicting the titular ambush by the Barbarians , and the other being the Romans ' elaborate retaliation .
NIGHT OF THE CREEPS ( Fred Dekker , 1986 )	This underrated horror comic is a worthy predecessor to THE MONSTER SQUAD ( 1987 ) with , this time around , a teenage outlook . Following the hilarious and bizarre opening set aboard an alien spaceship is a clever black-and-white prologue that's actually a nice homage to 1950s Grade Z movies ( later on we're also treated to a few excerpts from the ubiquitous PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE [ 1959 ] playing on TV ) . The mix of living dead / body horror themes suggests the influence of George Romero and David Cronenberg – in fact , I'd say that if Cronenberg and Romero had joined forces to direct PORKY'S ( 1981 ) , it would have looked something like this ! ! – and , sure enough , the heroic couple are given these exact surnames ; like THE HOWLING ( 1981 ) , then , other characters are also named after horror-film directors . Fraternity houses are a favorite horror setting , particularly during this era – yet , despite some definite gore , the accent is on fun with likable dorky leads ( involved in the expected bullying and romantic complications ) and a wonderful Tom Atkins as a cynical cop , whose past is inextricably linked with the alien invasion . Still , the film does have its share of somber moments – such as the plight of the hero's crippled sidekick ( who exits the proceedings halfway through , but not before accidentally stumbling upon the way to destroy the alien slugs inhabiting the zombies and passing on the information to his friend ) and Atkins ' own self-sacrifice at the end . The action / special effects sequences are quite well done , in view of the obvious low-budget . As I said , while I think of myself as generally averse to 1980s horror / sci-fi flicks , the more I watch of them the fonder I'm becoming of this time period ; this particular title certainly turned out to be a most pleasant offering .
THE GRAPES OF DEATH ( Jean Rollin , 1978 )	Though not up to Rollin's ROSE OF IRON ( 1972 ) or THE LIVING DEAD GIRL ( 1981 ) , this is still pretty good - forming with the latter and ZOMBIE LAKE ( 1980 ; which I haven't watched ) a very loose trilogy . Still , it's not strictly a zombie film ( as the ' monsters ' here aren't flesh-eaters and don't even rise from the dead ! ) - though it carries much the same kind of menace as LET SLEEPING CORPSES LIE ( 1974 ) , also largely set in the countryside and displaying a concern for ecology in the modern world . As with many of Rollin's work , this is actually more of a hypnotic mood-piece with very little dialogue : languorous , often lyrical and undeniably haunting . In this respect , the dreamy cinematography ( which is sometimes out-of-focus ) and the simple yet agreeable score ( despite the admittedly grim subject matter ) emerge as indelible assets to its ultimate quality . The film is quite gory and the ending downbeat , but Marie-Georges Pascal's bewildered heroine generates genuine audience sympathy - even if it's a fetching yet duplicitous Brigitte Lahaie ( inexplicably unaffected by the plague which is ravaging the village ) who steals the show with her brief but striking role !
The Legend Of Zorro	My father is a big fan of THE MASK OF ZORRO ( 1998 ) , particularly its lush score , so this week I rented the sequel for his sake and sat down to watch it with him . As was the case with the ' original ' , THE LEGEND OF ZORRO is pretty enjoyable in itself and basically a good way to kill off two hours ' time after a hard week's work . Still , while the film featured a plethora of lively and spectacular action scenes and elaborate stunt-work , it also suffered considerably from a plot riddled with clichés ? outwardly respectable villain hiding a sinister purpose ; laconic but deadly manservant ( a ' la Oddjob ) ; beefy , scripture-quoting thug ; a long-suffering but ultimately resourceful priest as a sidekick to Zorro ; the latter's unwitting son who worships him while hating his foppish persona ? and a script burdened with political ( i . e . post - ) significance : even while struggling to stay together and unite its various states , America was under attack by a foreign power intent on bringing down its emerging influence . Otherwise , the film keeps afloat by means of star power alone ( the subplot involving two mysterious and vaguely sinister blackmailers is redundant in the long run ) , though its striving for a ' screwball comedy'-type feel in Antonio Banderas ' attempts to win back the affections of wife Catherine Zeta-Jones doesn't really work ? but some amusement are to be derived from the antics of Zorro's spirited horse !
TOO LATE THE HERO ( Robert Aldrich , 1970 )	While I didn't watch this in the most congenial of conditions ( due to lethargy on my part caused by the excessive Summer heat ! ) , it still emerged as something of a disappointment given the enormous talent at hand ! ! Perhaps its greatest fault is that the film is distinctly unmemorable , despite a fairly engaging plot of British troops and one American ( Cliff Robertson ) stranded on a Pacific island at the mercy of the Japanese . The largely British cast looks impressive on paper - Michael Caine , Ian Bannen , Harry Andrews , Denholm Elliott - but few really get a chance to shine : Caine , for instance , seems content most of the time to take a back seat to Robertson . As for Henry Fonda's cameo at the start , he might as well have phoned in his performance ! For all that , the film generates some genuine tension during the second half with its cat-and-mouse game between Robertson and Caine on one side and the Japanese major on the other . This is no jingoistic fare , however , a fact which is borne by the script ( co-written by Aldrich ) and , for this reason , Joseph Biroc's cinematography is deliberately murky - which also means that Gerald Fried's rousing score is actually an ironic comment on the glorification of war ! Curiously enough , the film appears to have a different survivor at the end depending on which version ( British or American ) one happens to catch : since I watched it via the R2 DVD , it's Caine who makes it ; I wonder if the R1 Anchor Bay disc ( now out-of-print ) and the more recent MGM edition are indeed different . . .
CHARLESTON PARADE ( Jean Renoir , 1927 )	This is , by far , Jean Renoir's oddest film : a surreal , sci-fi / musical short which was originally accompanied by a specially-composed score but whose print on the DVD itself , bafflingly , features no underscoring whatsoever . Incongruously enough , the film apparently grew out of Renoir's desire to utilize footage left over from NANA ( 1926 ) ! Again , we find Renoir's wife at the time ? Catherine Hessling ? in a major role ; here , she is a sexy dancer from the future who teaches a sophisticated negro explorer ( ! ) the Charleston dance ( at which he eventually proves himself remarkably adept ) . It is very hard to believe now that Hessling's dancing caused quite a stir at the time but there you go . Unfortunately , the film doesn't add up to much and there's practically nothing of the traditional Renoir on display . Besides , its premise isn't enough to sustain even the film's two-reel length , with the protracted dance sequence itself , filmed at a variety of speeds , emerging as a hollow exercise in style . For what it's worth , other characters appearing in the film include a ( fake-looking ) monkey who is Hessling's sole companion on the seemingly deserted place the coloured astronaut lands on and , for no apparent reason , a group of grinning angels ( among them Renoir himself ) ! The film's best gag is one that would soon become a staple of animation : at one point , Hessling draws a telephone on a wall and this immediately materializes into the real thing .
I'M NOT THERE ( Todd Haynes , 2007 )	To begin with , I've been a longtime fan of Bob Dylan's music ; I know of the various phases his career took , but still can't consider myself an expert on him ? in fact , I haven't watched any of the documentaries about the elusive musician ( despite owning DON'T LOOK BACK [ 1967 ] on VHS for some time ) but did get to see him in three feature films , namely PAT GARRETT AND BILLY THE KID ( 1973 ) , the concert movie THE LAST WALTZ ( 1978 ) and MASKED AND ANONYMOUS ( 2003 ) . I was aware of the acclaim garnered by Haynes ' fantasia on Dylan's many ' lives ' but I have to say I was left disappointed ; it's not that I expected the film to be clear-cut or comprehensive ( after all , the protagonist is played by six different people ! ) but , at the end of the day , despite its over-generous length ( 135 minutes ) , one has come no closer to understanding the man than he was before ? which renders the whole enterprise not only pompous but pointless ! Besides , I don't think the film benefited from renaming each personality ? we're not talking about David Bowie here ! ? or , for that matter , some of the milieux in which they ' operated ' : why make him a movie star , for instance , and what about the black kid or the Western outlaw figure ( how was one supposed to connect one with the other unless he knew beforehand they were supposed to be all different facets of the same man ) ? ! Needless to say , the music is outstanding but , frankly , there's hardly an indication of the impact Dylan's music has had over the years ( apart from his early crusading folk period ) ; okay , so the crossover to Electric was initially controversial but it subsequently changed the face of rock music forever ? and , yet , Haynes seems to take all of this for granted ! Another thing that doesn't work is the decision not to give each personality its own space but rather throw them all into the mix without rhyme or reason ; it's a pity , then , that Haynes seems to be catering here merely to the staunchest Dylan connoisseur ! By the way , the acting is variable : Cate Blanchett's much-touted Oscar-nominated performance is good albeit overly mannered , though only Christian Bale ( who gets to play two separate incarnations of Dylan ) approximates the musician's famously nasal voice ; Heath Ledger is typically brooding , but he's matched in his scenes by Charlotte Gainsbourg as the Sara Dylan figure ; if anything , Richard Gere is ideally cast as " Billy The Kid " ? but , apart from the undeniable flavor his scenes give the film , they're the most obscure in the whole scheme of things ( I do like Roger Ebert's thesis , however , that what was intended here was an allegory about Dylan's perennial search for his true self ? or something like that ) . Still , perhaps the film's biggest fault is that it's too often a bore ? surely , Dylan's real life must have been a lot more compelling than what's depicted / imagined here ?
THE BIG BUS ( James Frawley , 1976 )	Preceding the far more popular AIRPLANE ! ( 1980 ) in its spoof of blockbuster disaster movies by four years , this is a patchy but reasonably amusing ride in its own right The titular nuclear-powered vehicle was designed by Stockard Channing , constructed by her father Harold Gould ( who , in his turn , is cared for by reluctant doctor Larry Hagman ) , driven by disgraced ' cannibal ' Joseph Bologna , steered from the controls center by Ned Beatty and sought for destruction by " Ironman " Jose ' Ferrer ! As befits its pedigree , the passengers are an equally colorful , starry lot : an on-again / off-again couple ( Richard Mulligan and Sally Kellerman ) , a dotty old lady ( Ruth Gordon ) , a bitchy nymphomaniac of a celebrity ( Lynn Redgrave ) , a doubting priest ( Rene Auberjonois ) , etc . The film loses steam in the latter half because its biggest laughs occur before the actual journey starts , in particular during a bar-room brawl at a drivers ' hang-out where Bologna is picked on by everybody except for one called Shoulders ( John Beck ) who , after earning a co-driver's seat on The Big Bus , soon reveals the meaning behind his nickname ? he's narcoleptic !
THE TWELVE CHAIRS ( Mel Brooks , 1970 )	I had first watched this as a kid on Italian TV and it must have seemed very different to me than the typical Mel Brooks film ( after all , THE TWELVE CHAIRS was only his second outing ) but , back then , I wasn't familiar with THE PRODUCERS ( 1968 ) either ; it was with his next effort , BLAZING SADDLES ( 1974 ) , that Brooks really found a congenial formula , i . e . parody , which would occupy most of his subsequent career . This was adapted from a popular Russian source much filmed over the years all over the world : in Britain as KEEP YOUR SEATS , PLEASE ( 1937 ) , with George Formby ( which I have just acquired but , alas , don't have time to watch at present ) , in the Hollywood as IT'S IN THE BAG ( 1945 ) , co-starring Jack Benny , the international production 12+1 ( 1969 ) featuring the last appearance of the ill-fated Sharon Tate and a starry cast ( Vittorio Gassman , Orson Welles , Terry-Thomas , etc . ) and there's even a Cuban version from 1962 by Tomas Gutierrez Alea ( which has recently been released on R2 DVD but which I have yet to acquire ) . Brooks ' version , then , is the only one I know of to utilize the original Russian setting which , in spite of generally amusing ( if overly familiar ) situations , rather makes for a dreary-looking film . For the most part , too , the show's more glum than fun ? with pratfalls uncomfortably rubbing shoulders with ( misplaced ) social conscience ! In any case , Ron Moody ( fresh from the success of OLIVER ! [ 1968 ] ) is ideally cast as an impoverished aristocrat in search of the family fortune sown into one of twelve chairs which have been sold to various parties following the 1917 uprisings . His co-stars are a dashing Frank Langella ( who , incidentally , I watched performing on a London stage in January 2007 and might well be up for an Academy Award next February in Ron Howard's film adaptation of that very play I saw him in , i . e . FROST / NIXON ) as a wily schemer , who plays it straight but is equally effective , and Dom DeLuise as the greedy priest to whom Moody's relative has confessed before expiring ; I suppose that his hysterical shtick and zany antics seemed funny at the time but it's rather overbearing to watch nowadays . Last but not least , Brooks himself cameos ( he'd appear in all of his own films from then on ) as Moody's loyal but befuddled servant .
Bush Christmas ( Ralph Smart , 1947 )	This pleasant kiddie flick has the benefit of being located in the relatively unusual Australian outback despite its Christmas period setting ; as everyone knows , Australian Christmases are hot summery ones rather than marked by the cold weather which is so intrinsic to the Christmas spirit for the rest of the world . Although I've become familiar with a handful of Australian movies in fairly recent years , this is undoubtedly the oldest one I've watched so far ? although , technically , this is a British-Australian co-production . For the record , the film was quite popular on its home turf and was , in fact , remade much later in 1983 with a young Nicole Kidman featured in the cast ! Anyway , writer-director Ralph Smart had a hand in concocting several earlier , notable British comedies ? ALF'S BUTTON AFLOAT ( 1938 ) , CONVICT 99 ( 1938 ) , etc . ? and later went into TV where he dealt with such heroic figures as William Tell and Robin Hood ; indeed , BUSH Christmas adequately displays his light touch and sense of adventure which makes for a decent , low-key entertainment which passes the time amiably enough . The unassuming plot has to do with a group of young children ( including a bungling , bespectacled Briton and a half-Aborigine tracker ) falling foul of three horse thieves ( one of whom is played by popular Australian actor Chips Rafferty ) .
THIS PROPERTY IS CONDEMNED ( Sydney Pollack , 1966 )	To begin with , this was the first of seven films directed by Sydney Pollack and featuring Robert Redford ; it’s also the eleventh cinematic adaptation I’ve watched of Tennessee Williams’ work . Pollack may seem like a surprising choice to handle this type of hot-house melodrama ; however , he does a fairly good job of it – even if the end result is among the least regarded films derived from Williams ( which the author himself reportedly disliked to the point of wanting to disown it ! ) . Incidentally , the script was co-written by two film-makers in their own right – namely Francis Ford Coppola ( ! ) and Fred Coe ( whose best-regarded work , A THOUSAND CLOWNS [ 1965 ] , I’ve just recorded off local Cable TV ) . Typically , the plot is a tale of decadence and redemption : Natalie Wood is a Southern belle whose lascivious nature her mother ( Kate Reid ) doesn’t mind exploiting since it means business for the boarding-house she runs ( it’s the time of The Great Depression ) , which is mainly populated by railway workers . In fact , clean-cut Redford turns up unexpectedly amidst this environment – and it transpires that he’s an itinerant railway agent in charge of diminishing the ranks ; this obviously makes him unpopular in town , but it’s through his subsequent relationship with Wood ( after the two had started off on the wrong foot ) that he gets into trouble – and , as often happens to the heroes in Tennessee Williams’ work , he gets beaten up . Events get more complicated when Wood and Redford fall out anew ( due to Reid’s bossiness ) ; contemptuous of the whole atmosphere , he backs out – and , while drunk , Wood accepts the marriage proposal coming from her mother’s boyfriend ( Charles Bronson ) ! However , she leaves soon after to join Redford in New Orleans . . . but even here Reid appears to make their life hell . The narrative is recounted by Wood’s younger sister – played by Mary Badham from TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD ( 1962 ) who , once again , shines as the naïve but rebellious precocious type ; the supporting cast also includes Robert Blake – with whom Redford would have another face-off ( more central to the plot this time around ) in the well-regarded Western TELL THEM WILLIE BOY IS HERE ( 1969 ) . By the way , Wood and Redford had already been paired for INSIDE DAISY CLOVER ( 1965 ) ; they make a very handsome couple indeed – and , incidentally , both had earlier appeared in similar exposes of sordid small-town life with SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS ( 1961 ) and THE CHASE ( 1966 ) respectively . Interestingly , Wood would name Vivien Leigh as her favorite actress : the latter starred in two Williams adaptations herself – and , in fact , the initially overbearing quality of Wood’s character here owes a lot to Britisher Leigh’s two best-known roles ( both Oscar-winning performances playing Southerners ! ) i . e . GONE WITH THE WIND ( 1939 ) and Tennessee Williams’ own A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE ( 1951 ) . Another less felicitous trivia connected to Wood and this film is that the actress is said to have attempted suicide during its making ! While the John Houseman and Ray Stark-produced film is good-looking ( with cinematography by veteran James Wong Howe – who had won an Oscar for another Williams adaptation , the monochromatic THE ROSE TATTOO [ 1955 ] ) , contains a pleasant score by Kenyon Hopkins ( not to mention a recurring song , " Wish Me a Rainbow " , by the popular team of Jay Livingston and Ray Evans ) and , undeniably , a fair number of effective dramatic and tender sequences along the way , it’s basically a matter of " we’ve been here before " – so that , ultimately , what one’s getting is a succession of events that are wholly predictable and which take a needlessly long time to unfold ( the piece having originated as a mere one-act play in the first place ! ) . . .
TRASH ( Paul Morrissey , 1970 )	As was to be expected , this presents more of the same from The Andy Warhol Factory , even more so because this is actually a continuation of the story started out in FLESH ( 1968 ) . Even though lasting for a strained ( and strenuous ) 110 minutes , as a film it's undeniably superior to the previous outing : the plot , if so it can be called , now sees Joe Dallesandro's hustling years behind him and he just bums around and fills himself up with dope , while doing the occasional robbery to procure the money needed to satiate his fix ! Likewise , the diminutive go-go dancer / stripper played by Geri Miller in FLESH returns here just for the opening sequence where it is clear that she has finally had the breast implants she craved ( and whined for ) so much in the earlier film ! Otherwise , we meet a variety of new ( and irritatingly neurotic ) characters : first and foremost is Holly Woodlawn , a temperamental transvestite with bad teeth who also happens to be Dallesandro's landlady and lover . The scene showing her satisfying ' herself ' sexually with a beer bottle because Joe is impotent due to his excessive drug use is both unnerving and hilarious ; as is the final sequence of the film where the low-life couple are visited by a social worker with a foot fetish ( he's willing to throw the necessary red tape aside and recommend them for welfare status , if only Holly would let him have her shoes ? which she picked off the garbage to begin with ) ! Woodlawn's performance was much admired at the time and , reportedly , gay Hollywood director George Cukor had even actively campaigned for her to be considered among the year's Oscar nominees ! ! The gallery of society drop-outs also feature Woodlawn's ugly pregnant sister who seduces Dallesandro but is caught in the act by Holly who , in a hysterical fit , throws her sibling out into the streets despite her condition ; a girl ( played by one Andrea Feldman , more on her later when I get to the third entry in the series ) with an annoying drawl and obsessed with laying her hands on some LSD ? truly , she is one of the most annoying characters ever committed to celluloid ; and a young suburban couple whom Joe meets while attempting to rob their place : the wife is a chatterbox nymphomaniac and the whole scene degenerates into a violent family squabble just as Dallesandro OD's on crack and gets unceremoniously ejected from the apartment ! Therefore , it goes without saying that , apart from copious full-frontal nudity ? again , primarily from Mr . Dallesandro ( as had the case with the appropriately-titled FLESH ) ? the film contains graphic scenes of drug-taking . For the record , the " Holly " and " Little Joe " characters referenced in ex-Velvet Underground frontman Lou Reed's 1972 hit single " Walk On The Wild Side " actually refer to ? drum roll , please ? Holly Woodlawn and Joe Dallesandro !
SARABAND ( Ingmar Bergman , 2003 ) ( TV )	I have to say that I found this acclaimed swan-song by a great film-maker to be , at best , third-rate Bergman ; even the lesser efforts from his vintage period are a good deal preferable to it – at least , they showed a real cinematic sensibility . . . whereas this feels merely like a piece of filmed theatre ( and not a very compelling one at that ! ) . Anyway , the plot follows on from Bergman’s much earlier SCENES FROM A MARRIAGE ( 1973 ; which I still haven’t watched because I can’t convince myself to willfully submit to 8 hours of misery ! ) – but , actually , the central situation here is almost a reprise of AUTUMN SONATA ( 1978 ) . . . only , it’s even less appetizing ! The cast list is restricted to only 4 actors ; another one , talked about during the course of the film , turns up in the last scene but her dialogue-less contribution lasts barely half-a-minute . Ironically , I was more drawn in by the performances of the two ‘new’ members of the Bergman stock company of actors and especially the young Julia Dufvenius ( though Borje Ahlstedt was actually featured in 6 films written by the Swedish master as well as a TV mini-series , of these the only major title which had Bergman as director was FANNY AND Alexander [ 1982 ] ) rather than those of old reliables Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson . We’ve seen these two do the ‘miserable routine’ too often to have all that much impact any longer : both are merely happy to acquiesce one last time to the will of the man who made their name – even if , for 80-year old Josephson , it also means having to appear in the nude ! The film isn’t bad per se , simply too harrowing – and , for lack of a better word , unreal ( surely not what Bergman intended ) – to be taken seriously ; I , for one , readily admit to cackling out loud at every melodramatic turn taken by the narrative or in the middle of particularly intense stretches of dialogue ! Incidentally , much has been said about the inconclusive endings in the films of Michelangelo Antonioni ( who , as everyone knows , died on the same day as Bergman ) – what about the ending of this one , then ? We never get to know whether Karin was informed of her father’s attempted suicide and whether this eventually effected her career as a musician , or even what became of him after the fact , or why Josephson is suddenly unable to reply to Ullmann’s phone calls . Ultimately , the film emerges as a singularly pointless venture – and light years away from Bergman’s best work .
TEN LITTLE INDIANS ( George Pollock , 1965 )	To begin with , I opted to watch this so as to alleviate my sadness in the wake of the deaths of Ingmar Bergman and Michelangelo Antonioni ! Since I knew the plot already ( it follows Rene ' Clair's classic original AND THEN THERE WERE NONE [ 1945 ] pretty closely ) , I didn't have to concentrate too much on the narrative complications ? which also meant that it offered no surprise at all in this department ! Unfortunately , though , the film wasn't as much fun as I had hoped : flatly-handled , mechanical and indifferently acted ? its cast a mix of British veterans and popular but bland ' stars ' of the era : the former are always a welcome presence ( Leo Genn , Stanley Holloway , Wilfrid Hyde-White and Dennis Price ) ; of the younger generation , at least , Shirley Eaton makes for a lovely heroine ! The mountain setting , too , doesn't work quite so well as the deserted island of Agatha Christie's novel and Clair's earlier film ? though there's a nice score by Malcolm Lockyer for compensation . Incidentally , the version I watched featured the fun " Whodunnit Break " gimmick that's included on the R1 DVD only as an extra ! Curiously enough , even if shown on Italian TV in mid-afternoon , every now and then the film reverted to the original English language ( accompanied by Italian subtitles ) ; similar hybrids I recall watching over the years include Jacques Tourneur's OUT OF THE PAST ( 1947 ) and Anthony Mann's THE FALL OF THE ROMAN EMPIRE ( 1964 ) ! Finally , it's amazing that producer / co-screenwriter Harry Alan Towers ( the latter under his regular alias of Peter Welbeck ) remade this twice more in 1974 and 1989 ( ! ) ? I'd be interested in checking out the former , despite its bad reputation , for another remarkable international cast but certainly not the latter ( in which the hero's played by Frank Stallone , for cryin ' out loud ) . . .
GOLDEN SALAMANDER ( Ronald Neame , 1950 )	Watchable British thriller about gun-running in Post-WWII Tunisia with faint echoes of THE MALTESE FALCON ( 1941 ; except that the title artifact bears little relation to the main plot ! ) , TO HAVE AND HAVE NOT ( 1944 ) and THE THIRD MAN ( 1949 ; not least the presence of two of its cast members ) , but is perhaps too low-key to be really memorable . Nonetheless , the film has a remarkable cast ( Trevor Howard , Anouk Aimee ' , Herbert Lom , Walter Rilla , Miles Malleson , Jacques Sernas , Wilfrid Hyde-White ) and nice , noir-ish atmosphere going for it - and is short enough ( 87 minutes , though some sources give this as 96 ! ) to keep tedium at bay . . . which could result from its lack of incident ( apart from a couple of confrontation scenes and a climactic fistfight between Howard and Lom ) or the incongruous pairing of its two leads .
THE EMBRYO ( Koji Wakamatsu , 1966 )	A mildly interesting if more explicit ( as is to be expected of the Japanese ) variation on William Wyler's THE COLLECTOR ( 1965 ) , the film nevertheless doesn't quite equal the deliriousness of Yasuzo Masumura's similar BLIND BEAST ( 1969 ) : as a matter of fact , the obsessiveness of the relationship at the centre of that film is infinitely more compelling , since the female victim here never seems to grow from the intense experience she goes through and only wants to escape her predicament , without ever striving to understand the motives of her captor ! Indeed , the film's depiction of the aggressor as mother-fixated ( screaming for her even at the moment of death ) is perhaps its only novelty . . .
Invisible Agent ( 1942 )	Of the " Invisible Man " series made by Universal , I was only familiar with the first two ( both of which I'll rewatch again presently ) - the James Whale original being one of my all-time favorites . Ever since it was released as part of the " Legacy " set , I had mostly read negative opinions about this film - and even Leonard Maltin gives it a pretty low rating . However , I was very surprised by how much I enjoyed it ! True , the leads are rather bland ( why on earth is Ilona Massey credited before Jon Hall ? ! ) but , then , INVISIBLE AGENT has a formidable trio of villains - Peter Lorre , Sir Cedric Hardwicke and J . Edward Bromberg - going for it ( who even make Curt Siodmak's script sound better than it is ) . Besides , I must say that I'm a sucker for both WWII and espionage movies , so that's a big plus as well . . . which , I guess , means that it isn't really a horror film and that The Invisible Man is the hero ! Oh well , you can't have everything ! John P . Fulton's still-impressive special effects ( exposed a bit here by the extra clarity of the DVD transfer ) deliver the goods and , all in all , the film made me keen to get to the remaining titles in the series .
HOI POLLOI ( Del Lord , 1935 )	The Three Stooges do " Pygmalion " when two elderly upper-class types make a bet that one of them can turn three tramps into society gentry ; naturally , he picks up the comic trio ( the local garbage collectors ) off the streets and then has them take lessons from various teachers in an attempt to elevate their social standing . As ever , there's a lot of mugging ( especially from Curley ) but the film does feature a couple of great moments : a dancing teacher is stung by a bee and starts doing somersaults in order to get rid of it ? only The Stooges , unaware of what's going on , try to keep up with her . . . and they all end up falling out of a window into a fountain below ; then there's the inspired final gag ? where , after the boys make a shambles of the party in which the old men present them to their equals , the guests eventually start to mimic the antics of The Stooges rather than be shocked by their behavior ( slapping each other around , uttering Moe's trademark " Spread Out ! " , etc ) .
CREEPSHOW ( George A . Romero , 1982 )	This five-part ( or six , if you count the bookends ) horror anthology is on the same lines as the earlier ( and much classier ) efforts of British horror specialists Amicus and looks forward to TV's TALES FROM THE DARKSIDE ( 1984-88 ) , AMAZING STORIES ( 1985-87 ) and TALES FROM THE CRYPT ( 1989-96 ) series . The first two stories here - featuring Ed Harris and Viveca Lindfors in one and screenwriter Stephen King ( mugging mercilessly ) in the other are rather lame , but the rest are quite nicely done : the third episode with Leslie Nielsen and Ted Danson gives the nascent white-haired comic a chance to be sarcastically sadistic and arrogantly defiant to the suitably ironic end ; the fourth story is arguably the best and features a good cast as it tells of henpecked college professor Hal Holbrook who takes Fritz Weaver's incredible discovery of a prehistoric killer ape in the college basement as an opportunity to dispose of his loudmouthed , alcoholic wife Adrienne Barbeau ! ; the last segment , then , is basically a one-man tour-de-force by veteran character actor E . G . Marshall as an egomaniacal billionaire who has his state-of-the-art apartment unceremoniously invaded by his pet hate , bugs ! This being a George A . Romero / Stephen King / Tom Savini collaboration , it can hardly fail to feature fashionable gore and elaborate make-up effects - the marauding corpse of Lindfors ' father still after his cake ; King's transformation into a plant-thing after coming in contact with a meteorite ; the sea-weed infested corpses of Danson and his drowned companion as they visit Nielsen at his house ; the prehistoric ape and the bloody mayhem it leaves in its wake ; and , most gruesomely perhaps , Marshall's chest bursting and , for no good reason , what seem like thousands of bugs creep out ! Also the film pays tribute to its comic book origins by employing visual embellishments typical of such media and which only adds to the fun . Romero seems to have liked the whole anthology format as he not only wrote CREEPSHOW 2 ( 1987 ) but would soon team up with Dario Argento for their Edgar Allan Poe two-parter , TWO EVIL EYES ( 1989 ; also featuring Barbeau and Marshall ) , which I've yet to watch myself . . .
BAD BLOOD ( Leos Carax , 1986 )	A few years ago , I came across a PAL VHS copy of Leos Carax's debut feature , BOY MEETS GIRL ( 1984 ) , and now that I've caught up with the rest of his filmography , I regret passing on it . . . ! BAD BLOOD promises to be several things ? a treatise on a society coming to its first realization of the ravages of a sexually-transmitted disease ( read AIDS ) , a caper movie involving the stealing of a highly-requested anti - " AIDS " serum , etc . ? but ends up being a romantic love story and a vintage Hollywood pastiche of sorts : Carax admitted in an interview that the film was inspired by the Alan Ladd / Raoul Walsh actioner , SALTY O ' ROURKE ( 1945 ) ! The film has a good mix of veteran ( Michel Piccoli and Serge Reggiani ) and upcoming talent ( Juliette Binoche and Julie Delpy ) but the main character is played by Denis Levant ; curiously enough , he dies in this one but in Carax's following movie , THE LOVERS OF THE BRIDGE ( 1991 ; also with Levant and Binoche ) , the main character sports the same name of the one Levant plays here and , as a matter of fact , Binoche also makes references to Julien and Marion who also " feature " in LOVERS ! ! Actually , it appears that Carax's first 3 features are supposed to be taken as a loose trilogy . While BAD BLOOD isn't a total success , it is occasionally quite inspired : when David Bowie's " Modern Love " blurts out from the radio , Levant goes out dancing in the streets ( pun intended ) but his exuberant dance routine is soon cut short when Binoche turns off the radio ; a completely irrelevant sepia-tinged sequence of a gamine and her little child is set to the strains of Charlie Chaplin's score from THE KID ( 1921 ) ; Piccoli and Reggiani's first meeting in an airfield becomes a pantomime routine akin to Silent slapstick comedies ; and , most hilariously , an American thug also after the serum mistakes a fellow diner in a restaurant for Jean Cocteau but when Levant tells him that Cocteau is dead , he deadpans : " No ? look . . he's moving ! " .
FLYING LEATHERNECKS ( Nicholas Ray , 1951 )	I had previously watched this one on TV , but I recall being underwhelmed by it : I liked the film better a second time around , but it’s clearly no classic ( despite director Ray and co-star Robert Ryan’s involvement ) ; contrary to Ray’s best work , which is marked by his personal touch , he’s strictly a director-for-hire on this particular title . The film is one of several war-themed Wayne vehicles from this era , a good number of which I’ve yet to catch up with – FLYING TIGERS ( 1942 ) , THE FIGHTING SEABEES ( 1944 ) , BACK TO BATAAN ( 1945 ) and OPERATION PACIFIC ( 1951 ) . It’s similar to Wayne’s FORT APACHE ( 1948 ) , where he’s now portraying the martinet role played in that John Ford cavalry picture by Henry Fonda – though he’s well-matched with the long-suffering Ryan ( cast against type as an overly sensitive executive officer dedicated to his squad ) . The latter element , then , links the film with such archetypal flying pictures as ONLY ANGELS HAVE WINGS ( 1939 ) and TWELVE O’CLOCK HIGH ( 1949 ) – where the group leader is constantly forced to make tough decisions in which the life of his men has to be put in jeopardy . For this reason , too , Wayne’s a generally glum presence here – apart from his interaction with Jay C . Flippen as an amiably roguish old-timer ; from the remaining supporting cast , Don Taylor is equally notable as the wise-guy crew member who happens to be a relative of Ryan’s . The action sequences are exciting ( domestic asides are unsurprisingly dull but thankfully brief ) . even if utilizing an astonishing amount of grainy WWII stock footage which , while giving it a sense of raw authenticity , also tends to stick out rather too obviously alongside the soft yet agreeable Technicolor adopted for the rest of the film ! In the end , FLYING LEATHERNECKS may be corny but it’s reasonably enjoyable – and occasionally stirring – for all that .
POPSY POP ( Jean Herman , 1971 )	Mildly enjoyable international caper , very typical of its period and mainly notable ? if at all ? for its eccentric setting ( a South American diamond mining-town ) , casting ( Henri Charriere of " Papillon " fame as the gang boss , Stanley Baker's graduating from criminal in ROBBERY [ 1967 ] to inspector and Claudia Cardinale as a beautiful but duplicitous chanteuse nicknamed " Popsy Pop " ) and plot situations ( the film is as much about the diamond theft and subsequent chase as the settling of a score ? of the romantic type ? involving the three principals ) ; equally to the fore , especially during the narrative's first half , is the vivid local color . Another Jean Herman film which often plays on late-night Italian TV but I've yet to catch is the gangster thriller FAREWELL , FRIEND ( 1968 ) which basically hinges on the potentially dynamic star combo of Alain Delon and Charles Bronson .
A BULLET FOR JOEY ( Lewis Allen , 1955 )	This lesser and curiously-titled noir re-unites two stars ( who had previously been teamed in Raoul Walsh's MANPOWER [ 1941 ] ) from the gangster heyday ? Edward G . Robinson and George Raft . Robinson , by now , was alternating between good-guy / authoritative roles and villainous types ? so it was Raft who got saddled with the obsolete hoodlum figure ( albeit a mere cog in the wheel in the plot to kidnap a nuclear scientist , with Peter van Eyck as the true ring-leader ) . While I thoroughly enjoyed ILLEGAL ( 1955 ) , also with Robinson and by director Allen and which actually preceded this viewing , I was less enthused with this one : tolerable in itself but not especially interesting as drama ( though , again , it was concocted by two noir specialists ? OUT OF THE PAST [ 1947 ] ' s Geoffrey Homes , a pseudonym for Daniel Mainwaring , and A . I . Bezzerides who , soon after , would contribute the far more significant KISS ME DEADLY [ 1955 ] ) ; still , the hard-boiled dialogue ( especially as delivered by the cynical Raft ) is one of the main sources of entertainment throughout the film . For most of the duration , though , Robinson takes a back seat to the criminals ' activities ? whose scheme is handled in a needlessly convoluted way that involves a couple of seductions ( of the scientist by Raft's moll Audrey Totter , herself a noir staple , and of his prim female assistant by one of the gangster's lackeys ) and , of course , leaves a trail of murder behind it ! A couple of twists late in the game see Totter really falling for the naïve scientist and Raft persuaded by Robinson into doing his patriotic duty and turning against van Eyck ( atypically , the climax takes place aboard ship ) . For the record , I've six more Robinson films in my " To Watch " pile ? three vintage titles ( the compendium TALES OF MANHATTAN [ 1942 ] , the sentimental family saga OUR VINES HAVE TENDER GRAPES [ 1945 ] , and the noir-ish melodrama THE RED HOUSE [ 1947 ] ) and three minor outings , all of which happen to be capers , from his twilight period ( OPERATION ST . PETER'S [ 1967 ] THE BIGGEST BUNDLE OF THEM ALL [ 1968 ] , and IT'S YOUR MOVE [ 1969 ] ) .
CLASS OF 1984 ( Mark L . Lester , 1982 )	The " harassed schoolteacher " plot became a staple in the thriller genre ever since the runaway box office success of Richard Brooks ' BLACKBOARD JUNGLE ( 1955 ) and every successive " younger generation " got its own revamped variation on the theme : the Rock'n'Roll-era JUNGLE was transposed to London's Swinging 60s and transformed into TO SIR , WITH LOVE ( 1967 ; with Sidney Poitier graduating to the teacher role ) . The film under review can be considered to be the Punk version and , a mere five years later , it was updated once again as THE PRINCIPAL ( 1987 ) ; in hindsight , CLASS OF 1984 ( the elusive Orwellian implications of the title , notwithstanding ) is not badly done under the circumstances , and certainly better than I had been anticipating . Actually , I recall this film getting released theatrically over here all those years ago and even its first airing on Italian TV a little time later but , somehow , I never managed to sit down and watch it for myself until now . Anyway , despite its being fashioned literally almost step-by-step on BLACKBOARD JUNGLE Itself - the lead teacher has a pregnant wife who is harassed while alone in her home by the thugs , the teacher's best friend and fellow schoolteacher suffers terribly at the hands of his students , the head of school is powerless to intervene but still condemns King's eye-for-an-eye retaliatory tactics , etc . - the film's evident slickness makes it no less watchable or enjoyable for it . Perry King is a likable lead in the mild-mannered and soft-spoken Glenn Ford mold but Timothy Van Patten and his gang emerge as more obnoxious than scary . Besides , the fact that King is a music teacher ( with Van Patten himself something of a musical prodigy , if only he bothered to put his mind to it ! ) is a bit saccharine and jars with the film's inherent nastiness . Indeed what what the film has going for it above all else are the undeniably exciting scenes of violence : Van Patten's framing of King in a dilapidated bathroom ; Roddy McDowell going berserk in the classroom eliciting replies from his unresponsive pupils at gunpoint ; McDowall's subsequent car-crash demise ; the climax ( especially the chainsaw incident ) in which King eventually viciously disposes of the thugs while the all-important school concert is going on in absentia ! It is also worth mentioning that a very young Michael J . Fox appears in the role of the key witness to two schoolyard crimes who becomes , unsurprisingly , not only a teacher's pet but also the next victim of the gang's thuggery . Lalo Schifrin's score ( including an Alice Cooper song over the credits ) , then , is very much of its time and , as such , is the ideal accompaniment to the film .
VENDETTA FOR THE SAINT ( Jim O’Connolly , 1969 )	Given director O’Connolly’s background in B-movies , he perhaps results in being more at ease with the low-budget requirements of this one ( emanating from its TV origins ) : nevertheless , it effectively utilizes several European locations – including passing off Malta ( even my hometown puts in a prominent appearance during a scuffle 20 minutes into the film ! ) as Palermo ; incidentally , star Roger Moore would also come over here for the WWI adventure SHOUT AT THE DEVIL ( 1976 ) – incidentally , both films were made at a time when my country was still a British colony . Anyway , the plot finds Simon Templar facing off with the Mafia – but , at the same time , aiding their cause by uncovering an imposter in their midst ( at a rather precarious time for them , since they’re being assembled to elect a new Don ) . The accents throughout are fairly risible , though Ian Hendry is decent as a would-be mobster . . . but , then , Finlay Currie plays the dying Mafia head ? ! As was the case with THE FICTION-MAKERS ( 1968 ) , The Saint is romanced and helped by a couple of girls – one of whom is Hendry’s moll and the other ( played by lovely Rosemary Dexter ) his niece . Despite her English-sounding name , the latter was actually Pakistani by birth and , curiously enough , most of her career was spent in Italian exploitation fare ( her facial features looked familiar enough but , frankly , I had forgotten all about her appearance in Jess Franco’s MARQUIS DE SADE’S JUSTINE [ 1968 ] myself ! ) . Resolving itself into a number of confrontations and chases , the narrative obviously takes an altogether different route from its caper-type predecessor – and manages to be more involving by having the hero make a personal issue out of the case ( hence the title ) . Even so , I have to admit that his characterization isn’t very clearly defined – certainly not in the way James Bond was ( or would be for Moore when he took the role himself ) . . . and it doesn’t help , either , that I haven’t watched the 1997 big-screen incarnation of Leslie Charteris’ creation directed by Phillip Noyce and starring Val Kilmer !
CARRY ON LOVING ( Gerald Thomas , 1970 )	Again , this turned out to be more enjoyable than I was anticipating ? despite the essential lack of plot and the general feeling that the regulars are merely going through the paces . The premise ? or , more precisely , series of sketches ? revolve around Sidney James and Hattie Jacques ' matrimonial agency ; several people with various hang-ups turn up at their door ? including marital consultant ( but confirmed bachelor ) Kenneth Williams , Terry Scott and inexperienced Richard O'Callaghan . The thing is that James and Jacques aren't married themselves , and he's been having a fling with Joan Sims ( who's herself doted upon by pony-tailed wrestler Bernard Bresslaw ) ! Many generally amusing complications arise from this situation , though a lot of time is spent with the younger generation at the expense of the series stalwarts ( Peter Butterworth , for instance , only gets an unbilled ? albeit great ? cameo ) . Some of the better moments include : Scott's visit to the house of proposed soulmate Imogen Hassall , with relatives who seem to have strayed in from an episode of THE ADDAMS FAMILY TV series ! ; their date in her flat ( she eventually has a startling make-over ) , which is constantly interrupted by the arrival of her ostensibly engaged flat-mates ; the unexpected arousal of Williams ' stuffy housekeeper Patsy Rowlands after he brings home Jacques , and then Sims turns up to seduce him ( because James wants to get back with Jacques ) ? the scene is further complicated by the arrival of the raging Bresslaw , who's however hilariously knocked-out by the charged-up Rowlands ! ; the side-splitting pie-throwing finale during James and Jacques ' marriage ? which is definitely one of the highlights of the entire series . P . S . Hammer Films starlet Yutte Stensgaard's scenes were deleted from the released version ( reportedly , she was also in CARRY ON AGAIN DOCTOR [ 1969 ] ? but I didn't recognize her in that one ) .
THE VAMPIRE LOVERS ( Roy Ward Baker , 1970 )	This was my second viewing of the film ; I remember not liking it much the first time around but , thanks to this uncut Widescreen DVD presentation , it has improved considerably . Having read the original story on which this was based - J . Sheridan LeFanu's celebrated " Carmilla " ( which I hadn't done when I first watched THE VAMPIRE LOVERS ) - it was interesting to note just how faithful the film really is ; of course , it also introduces new elements to the fray ( like the mysterious " Man In Black " character played by John Forbes-Robertson ) which may or may not please fans of the story , but I had no problems with this ! The opening sequence is a good one and sets the tone for the rest of the film , immediately emphasizing the sex and violence angles which will be the mainstay of this enjoyable if unremarkable Hammer outing . Despite the low-budget , this is a handsomely-mounted production which actually saw its genesis through the involvement of an independent film-making team - producers Harry Fine and Michael Style and writer Tudor Gates - who brought the project to Hammer's attention who , in turn , quickly lapped it up ( leading to an all-too-brief rise in the declining fortunes of this great British studio , which found itself increasingly out-of-touch with the new-fangled cinematic trends of the 1970s ! ) . Hammer managed to assemble some wonderful actors and craftsmen for this film : director Roy Ward Baker , who had already directed a number of Hammer films - including the marvelous QUATERMASS AND THE PIT ( 1967 ) - and who would , more or less , be stuck with this type of film for the rest of his life ( not that he seems to have any regrets , considering the number of enthusiastic Audio Commentaries he has recorded ! ) ; cameraman Moray Grant ; composer Harry Robinson ( who , apparently , came along with the package ) ; art director Scott MacGregor ; and resident film editor James Needs . The cast certainly brought their somewhat stereotypical characters to life : Ingrid Pitt makes for a classy female vampire ( though she was perhaps too ' mature ' in comparison to her mostly juvenile co-stars ) ; Peter Cushing is compelling as always and is nicely abetted here by veterans George Cole , Ferdy Mayne and Douglas Wilmer ( it is somewhat amusing , however , to see Cushing - perhaps the screen's definitive Van Helsing - being ' schooled ' here by vampire hunter Baron Hartog , played by Wilmer , in how to go about destroying vampires ! ) ; still , the various characters who fall under Carmilla's spell range from bland ( Jon Finch and Pippa Steele ) to fairly composed ( Kate O ' Mara and Harvey Hall ) , with Madeleine Smith emerging as the most charming of all . The film has other notable scenes : the many vampire attacks which actually show very little ( although I cannot understand why , with a household full of convenient victims , Carmilla still feels compelled - apparently at the behest of the sinister-looking Forbes-Robertson - to quench her ' thirst ' out into the open ! ) , the best one perhaps being the death of the doctor played by Ferdy Mayne with an especially effective reverse shot of Ingrid Pitt ( reflected in a pool of water ) ; of course , we know vampires shouldn't cast their reflections , but the film seems to ignore that part of the ' established ' vampire lore ( in a later scene in the film , Pitt also ' appears ' in a mirror , so this was no fluke ! ; again , at the end , the film is pretty emphatic about having the vampire's head cut off as , apparently , a simple staking through the heart won't do ! ) . The lesbian scenes and occasional nudity , while hardly explicit ( indeed , one might say that the film-makers lacked the courage of their convictions somewhat by ' bailing out ' of such scenes rather too quickly ! ) , were certainly a novelty for the studio at the time - though it was subsequently done to death in their few remaining efforts - and , for what it's worth , I'd say that the seduction scene between Ingrid Pitt and Kate O ' Mara is the most erotic sequence I have seen in a Hammer picture ! The confrontation scenes between Pitt and Jon Finch and later between Pitt and Peter Cushing , in which the vampire comes to a sticky end , also turned out quite well ( though the two beheadings we are witness to in the film are both conspicuous by their singular lack of blood-letting : could it be the vampires needed blood because they were themselves anaemic ? ! ) ; the Dorian Gray-like ending ( which also looks forward to Pitt's next Hammer venture , COUNTESS Dracula [ 1971 ] ) is nicely done , too . I've yet to watch Hammer's other two entries in " The Karnstein Trilogy " , namely LUST FOR A VAMPIRE and TWINS OF EVIL ( both 1971 ) ; as for other lesbian vampire movies , THE VAMPIRE LOVERS certainly does not hold a candle to the likes of DAUGHTERS OF DARKNESS ( 1971 ) and VAMPYRES ( 1974 ) - nor , come to think of it , is it sensible to compare the film to the definitive ( if extremely loose ) screen version of LeFanu's novella , i . e . Carl Theodor Dreyer's brilliantly minimalistic yet hauntingly poetic VAMPYR ( 1932 ) !
Five Dolls For An August Moon ( Mario Bava , 1970 )	This had been among the very first Bava titles I watched ; I recall not liking it that much ? which I took to be due to the battered print shown on Italian TV . This second viewing ( via DivX ) presents the film in a more satisfying viewing environment ? but , then , substitutes the Italian dialogue with the typically lame English dubbing . . . so that I still ended up being disappointed ! That said , FIVE DOLLS FOR AN AUGUST MOON isn't one of the director's more highly regarded efforts ? except by a few , such as the " Cult Movies " website , which it rates and singles out as his best film ! It follows a well-worn thriller premise ? a variation on Agatha Christie's " Ten Little Indians " ( filmed several times , best of all by Rene ' Clair in Hollywood as AND THEN THERE WERE NONE [ 1945 ] ) ? with a small cast , an exotic island setting and a welcome tongue-in-cheek approach . However , the film is perhaps the most dated of Bava's work ? the art-deco sets , flashy ( yet skimpy ) costumes and the characters ' general amorality placing it unmistakably in the psychedelic 60s ; the opening party sequence comes off as especially silly in this respect . The same , by the way , can be said of Piero Umiliani's score ? practically incessant , so as to be almost another character in the film ? but which is so delightful ( especially the sardonic ' death waltz ' ) that , in fact , this easily emerges as the single best thing about it ! Also , Bava seems curiously detached here ? apparently , he was reluctant to make it ( but did personally edit the film ) : the murder set-pieces aren't all that memorable ( in fact , they mostly occur off-screen ) , the insufficiently developed plot meanders after a while , and the succession of ironic twists at the end tend to fall flat . Typically , he over-uses the zoom throughout but does manage one particularly masterful sequence ? having the camera follow numerous glass bulbs ( thrown off a table in an argument ) down a flight of steps to reveal another victim in the bath-tub . The ladies , at least , are lovely ? for a Bava film , there's an unusual emphasis on eroticism here ? especially Ira Furstenberg and Ely Galleani ( whose character is something of an enigma : though her presence is known to the people on the island , she's all but forgotten when the bodies start piling up and , ultimately , proves to be not quite so innocent ) . The film also marks the only time Euro-Cult starlet Edwige Fenech ( who's partly of Maltese descent , by the way ) worked with the maestro ; her role is pretty one-dimensional , however . Among the men , we get Maurice Poli ( later one of the vicious kidnappers in Bava's superb poliziottesco RABID DOGS [ 1974 ] ) and William Berger ? a regular presence in low-budget films from this era ? as the professor whose formula everyone is keen to exploit ( but who , again , is revealed to have something to hide ) . In the end , I still hope the film gets a " Special Edition " re-release ? as part of a second MARIO BAVA COLLECTION Box Set from Anchor Bay . . .
VIOLENT CITY ( Sergio Sollima , 1970 )	Director Sollima first forsook the Western genre with this stylish gangster drama : its complex revenge plot is , basically , a combination of two seminal American noirs – OUT OF THE PAST ( 1947 ) and POINT BLANK ( 1967 ) . The end result is overlong and deliberately-paced – but the second half generates considerable tension , and the action sequences ( particularly the opening car chase , a racing-car ‘accident’ and the climactic shoot-out in a rising elevator which , incidentally , are all the more effective for being completely dialogue-free ) are undeniably well-staged and exciting . The film also provided its star , Charles Bronson , with a virtual template for all his subsequent vehicles ; though his real-life wife Jill Ireland ( who appears in a surprising number of nude scenes ) doesn’t quite cut it as a femme fatale , the couple’s chemistry is more than evident and gives credence to the on / off romance which essentially drives the narrative . Also in the cast : Telly Savalas ( in his all-too-typical role of crime kingpin ) , Umberto Orsini ( as a shady lawyer ) and Michel Constantin ( as Bronson’s ageing junkie pal ) . Beneficial , too , is the unusual New Orleans setting – and the remaining credentials are certainly imposing : " Euro Cult " fixture Ennio Morricone’s score is excellent ( but , again , the main theme is awfully similar to that of REVOLVER [ 1973 ] and THE UNTOUCHABLES [ 1987 ] ! ) ; renowned cinematographer Aldo Tonti ; and , most astonishingly , co-screenwriter Lina Wertmuller . The DVD features an informative 15-minute interview with Sollima , in which he discusses how he became involved with the project : invariably , he had found the original script terrible but was eventually lured by the opportunity of a U . S . shoot , mentions that the lead roles were originally intended for Jon Voight and Sharon Tate ( ! ) , and even recalls an amusing anecdote which sums up Morricone’s attitude to films .
DREAM OF A RAREBIT FIEND ( Edwin S . Porter , 1906 )	Famous fantasy short with a moral : a man spends a night stuffing himself with food and drink in a restaurant ; stumbling his way home , he sees the buildings ' dancing ' around him and , on arriving , things only get worse . The bed starts to shake violently as if possessed and even throws itself , with the man still tucked in , through the window ( the film's single funniest bit ) ! Flying around town a ' la Scrooge , he's sure to have learnt his lesson by the next morning . As far as I know , the only other Porter film I've watched is THE GREAT TRAIN ROBBERY ( 1903 ) , celebrated for being the first Western ; this one , then , contains a number of crude camera tricks in the contemporary style of Frenchman Georges Melies . Incidentally ( and Michael Elliott is sure to raise an eyebrow or two at this ! ) , in spite of their undeniable historical value , I can't bring myself to appreciate such primitive stuff other than as mere curiosities ?
EAGLES OVER London ( Enzo G . Castellari , 1969 )	This is a surprisingly elaborate war film which tackles the same events as the big-budgeted BATTLE OF Britain ( 1969 ) , but from an entirely different perspective - the infiltration of German spies into London prior to the Luftwaffe's aerial attack in order to destroy the RAF's infallible radar system , and British Captain Frederick Stafford's efforts to root them out in time . While the generally slick presentation belies the modest funds that were obviously available , the overall achievement is still hurt by too much concession to elements particular to lowbrow film-making and especially some grating comic relief ( culminating in a brawl between British and French soldiers ) provided by Renzo Palmer - but there's also a baffling over-emphasis on the heroics of a French air ace ( who's not even a major character ! ) , as well as obviously choreographed stuntwork . . . not to mention the fact that every revelation in unmasking the Nazi plot is left to the ingenuity of one man , which makes one wonder just what would have become of Great Britain if Stafford hadn't been there ! ! Besides , even if I was watching the film in Italian , the fact that none of the cast is British or German is inescapable - which certainly doesn't award it any marks for authenticity ! Castellari's often flashy direction doesn't work either : shooting from odd angles ( through a bullet hole in a helmet , through a pair of clasped hands or through a loudspeaker ! ) and utilizing distracting editorial techniques , such as his playful use of the split-screen - which is partially lost anyway , given that the aspect ratio on the print I watched has been changed from the original 2 . 35 : 1 to 1 . 85 : 1 ! The action-packed film ( with a couple of romances thrown in for good measure ) is enjoyable in itself but , even if flawed , BATTLE OF Britain is clearly superior ( the familiar Euro-Cult faces here are no match for the roster of Britsh stars which populate that film ! ) - though they did engage the services of Bunuel regular Francisco Rabal ( as a conscientious German ) and American Van Johnson ( ! ) as the British RAF officer in charge of the country's defense ( who , in the final decisive action , takes to the skies himself to repel the invading Nazi forces ) .
PASSION ( Allan Dwan , 1954 )	Maybe I had been spoiled a fortnight ago by the ' surprising ' excellence of Dwan's SILVER LODE ( 1954 ) , or perhaps I had my mind on other things while it was playing ( I had just installed my brand new DVD recorder ) , or it is simply that the film needed a more compelling villain than Rodolfo Acosta ; the fact remains that I was underwhelmed by this first viewing of PASSION . Not that it really has a reputation to uphold or anything but , retaining the services of much of the same crew as SILVER LODE ( director Dwan , producer Benedict Bogeaus , cinematographer John Alton , composer Louis Forbes , art director Van Nest Polglase , bit-part actors Stuart Whitman and Robert Warwick , etc . ) , one can't help but expect similarly satisfying results . At least , the cast is quite good : Cornel Wilde , Yvonne De Carlo ( in a dual role as Wilde's ladylike wife and her tomboyish twin sister ! ) , Raymond Burr ( as the Sheriff ) , Lon Chaney Jr . ( as a drunken brute with a really loud cackle ) , John Qualen ( as De Carlo's grandfather ) and Anthony Caruso ( as Burr's suspicious colleague ) . The film , set in Old California , follows a typical revenge story pattern which , unfortunately , seems not to have inspired Dwan much until the snowbound ( or rather studio-bound ) finale : in fact , Wilde does most of the killings ? barring that of Chaney and Acosta ? offscreen ! Ultimately , PASSION emerges as a modestly pleasing and colorful diversion that falls short of achieving its potential ? especially when judging the end result against similar contemporary Western fare about obsessive odysseys of revenge like Fritz Lang's RANCHO NOTORIOUS ( 1952 ) and Henry King's THE BRAVADOS ( 1958 ) .
CHISUM ( Andrew V . McLaglen , 1970 )	This is another laid-back action Western from The Duke’s twilight period with a more ambitious scope than usual , since it features historical figures like John Simpson Chisum ( the part played by Wayne ) , Pat Garrett ( played by Glenn Corbett ) and Billy The Kid ( played by Geoffrey Deuel ) . Rather than having the typical token appearance by cronies , it provides substantial roles for Ben Johnson ( as Wayne’s mumbling sidekick ) , Forrest Tucker ( effectively cast against type as the villain ) , Bruce Cabot ( as the corrupt sheriff ) , Richard Jaeckel ( as Tucker’s lead henchmen ) , Christopher George ( as a trigger-happy replacement for Cabot ) , Abraham Sofaer ( as an Indian chief ) and , most surprising of all perhaps , Patrick Knowles ( as Wayne’s best friend and fellow patriarch ) . Having said that , the film is too often side-tracked by the bland affairs of the younger generation – including Garrett and the Kid who , of course , both vie for the hand of Wayne’s niece ! It’s interesting to watch Ben Johnson participating in these old-fashioned type of Westerns , when a year earlier he had played a major role in Sam Peckinpah’s ground-breaking THE WILD BUNCH ( 1969 ) – a film which both John Wayne and Howard Hawks disliked ! CHISUM features an innovative illustrated credit sequence – although Wayne’s stoic posture in the opening and closing shots evokes more unintended mirth than the expected emotion ! The busy climax , then , takes in an over-extended but fairly exciting shootout , an outbreak of fire , a fistfight ( between Wayne and Tucker ) , and even a cattle stampede . In the end , this emerges as predictable but good-natured fun – with a flavorful score by Dominic Frontiere which is , unfortunately , occasionally interrupted by some awful country-ish tunes . Incidentally , it was while working on this film that John Wayne won his Golden Globe Award for TRUE GRIT ( 1969 ) and learned that he was up for an Academy Award for it ( which he proceeded to win as well ) . Apart from a promotional featurette ( discussed below ) , the Warners DVD of CHISUM includes a full-length Audio Commentary by director McLaglen which , basically , details the goings on behind-the-scenes – with special mention of the Durango locations ( standing in for New Mexico ) and , of course , his long-running association with Wayne ( in all , they made 5 movies together ) . It isn’t one of the most compelling Commentaries I’ve heard , but I didn’t expect it to be either . JOHN WAYNE AND " CHISUM " ( TV ) ( Elliot Geisinger and Ronald Saland , 1970 ) A nine-minute TV special made to promote the release of CHISUM ( 1970 ) – available as a supplement on Warners’ DVD of the John Wayne / Andrew V . McLaglen Western – it gives some background on the historical figure of cattle baron John Simpson Chisum and also delineates just how Pat Garrett and Billy The Kid ( his friends , but soon to be sworn enemies of each other ) came to be involved in his struggle against unscrupulous landowners . Apart from providing rare behind-the-scenes footage of Wayne and company at work in a number of key scenes from the film , at one point , the star is even shown parading the Oscar he had just won for TRUE GRIT ( 1969 ) !
THE BLACK PIRATE ( Sergio Sollima , 1976 )	India-born Kabir Bedi was groomed into a latter-day Steve Reeves when he entered the Italian film industry in the mid-70s . In fact , he not only played the roles of Sandokan in a TV mini-series and on the screen ( something Reeves had done on film ) but he also featured in the all-star remake of THE THIEF OF BAGHDAD ( 1978 ; Reeves had done so in 1960 ) . Incidentally , Reeves also starred in MORGAN THE PIRATE ( 1961 ) and that legendary figure does play an important role in the plot of the film under review ! The swashbuckler / pirate film genre was pretty much passé by this point in time but this is a fairly lively and successful throwback to those matinée adventures so prevalent in Hollywood between the 1920s and early 1950s . Kabir Bedi is a handsome and sympathetic leading man , while Mel Ferrer is as villainous here as he had been in one of the touchstones of the genre , SCARAMOUCHE ( 1952 ) . A bevy of attractive ladies ( Carole Andre ' , Sonja Jeannine and Dagmar Lassander ) and a typically infectious score from Gianni and Maurizio De Angelis ( billed under their own names rather than their usual alias of Oliver Onions ! ) round up the film's assets . Incredibly enough , this was an unprecedented box office phenomenon over here in Malta at the time of its release but I'm too young to remember it . Having seen it again now , it practically beggars belief but , as I said , it is an enjoyable , audience-pleasing romp . What is remarkable about it , however , is the fact that director Sollima injects an overly solemn ambiance at times ( not to mention some fantasy sequences of Bedi tormented by the vision of the ghosts of his murdered brothers ) which lends it a ponderousness quite atypical of such sea-faring stuff . Maybe it was intended as the last word on the subject or something : Mel Ferrer even goes unpunished in the end and The Black Pirate himself retreats into obscurity with his true love , leaving the field entirely to his consummate successor Morgan .
The Haunted Castle ( F . W . Murnau , 1921 )	I knew going in this was not a horror film , in spite of the English title : while not uninteresting in itself , it emerges as a very minor Murnau . Little of the director's trademark stylistics are present here ; the film does constitute an early use of flashback , as it slowly divulges the events behind a past crime for which the wrong man was accused ? but the characters don't exactly set the screen on fire . The Sinister Cinema edition I watched was a mere 56 minutes in length , as opposed to the restored 74-minute version of the film ; not surprisingly , the choppy editing ( full of phony-looking transitions and an equally pointless establishing shot of the castle used ad nauseam throughout ) made the plot somewhat hard to follow ? and the lack of detail in the print itself , not to mention the absence of an accompanying music score , didn't help matters either ! Even so , the film is worth watching for the unethical way the elderly hero goes about discovering the real identity of his brother's killer and for a couple of brief ? if irrelevant ? dream sequences , one expressionistic ( and which can now be seen as a dry run for NOSFERATU [ 1922 ] ) and the other surreal . Some years back , Image Entertainment had announced a DVD release of THE HAUNTED CASTLE but , for reasons known only to them , it was summarily cancelled and has yet to appear officially on any digital format .
SAFETY CATCH ( Yves Boisset , 1970 )	Fairly interesting Euro thriller revolving around the investigation into an apparent suicide who , prior to her demise , was involved in a brief romance with a troubled young man but had also attended a dubious photo-model session . The latter scene , which opens the film , features some mild bondage ? thus eliciting memories of Henri-Georges Clouzot's swan-song LA PRISONNIERE ( 1969 ) ; it's also interesting that the girl concerned is played by Raffaella Carra ' ( whose last film appearance this proved to be prior to her breakthrough as a top showgirl / presenter on Italian TV ? a status she holds , by and large , to this day ! ) . Unusual , too , is the fact that the detecting work here doesn't involve the police at all . The initially ambivalent relationship between disgraced doctor Bruno Cremer ( expelled for performing euthanasia ) and self-destructing bourgeois Renaud Verley ( who feels guilty for Carra''s death ) suggests this is going to be a clinical Chabrol-like character study . However , it turns into a conventional thriller before long ( with the heroine ? played by Martine Combrell ? used as bait for the sleazy amateur photographer ) ; still , Mario Adorf manages to invest the latter role with some degree of panache . Jean Martin , best known as the colonel who leads the oppressive French forces in THE BATTLE OF ALGIERS ( 1965 ) , appears here as Verley's valet ( who doesn't seem to take kindly to Cremer's intrusion ! ) . As a means of livening up proceedings , director Boisset opts for a car chase climax involving speed-freak Verley and the fleeing ( and flustered ) Adorf . Needless to say , this being a product of the late 60s , we get the added feature of bad dancing in various pub scenes ( though set to some groovy music ) !
MODESTY BLAISE ( Joseph Losey , 1966 )	Truth be told , I hated this movie on first viewing many years ago and , in fact , I only just now purchased the utterly bare-bones Fox DVD for three reasons : the disc is now out-of-print ; I found it very cheaply ( surprisingly ) at a local retailer ; and , most importantly perhaps , I was prepared to give it another chance thanks to my ongoing ( and very rewarding ) Losey-thon . To say that Joseph Losey was a strange choice to helm this picture would be a massive understatement . In his previous films , very rarely ( if at all ) had he shown that he had any sense of humor , much less the kind of campy , knowing and irreverent one essential for successful comic strip adaptations . As it happens , the film was not well-received and both leads - Monica Vitti ( who apparently phoned Michelangelo Antonioni everyday during the shoot ) and Terence Stamp - were unhappy making it ; there are those who even go so far as to consider it not just Losey's nadir but quite simply one of the worst films ever made ! Well , based on that first TV viewing of it , I probably would have endorsed such sentiments myself . . . However , my re-acquaintance with it proved something of a minor revelation : while still as uneven as I recalled , I couldn't now deny that there were some delightful elements which , on the whole , made the film palatable and , at times , even endearing : Evan Jones ' script was occasionally quite witty , Losey's own trademark odd compositions ( usually so overpowering in his melodramas ) suited the " anything goes " mood of the material , Jack Hildyard's glossy cinematography of attractive Mediterranean locations , outrageous outfits and groovy production design was top-notch and Losey's frequent composer Johnny Dankworth provided an infectious score . And what about that cast ? Monica Vitti ( who would have guessed that she could ever be as attractive and sexy as this judging by her work for Antonioni ? ) , Terence Stamp ( gleefully throwing knives , bedding women and engaging in a charming , impromptu singing duet with Vitti while driving up a mountaintop and reprising it for the action-packed finale ) , Dirk Bogarde ( ironically named Gabriel , he was never campier - or gayer - than as the silver-wigged , self-proclaimed " villain of the piece " ) , Michael Craig ( as Vitti's ex-lover and pursuing British agent ) , Harry Andrews ( as a top British Secret Service official firing away bullets from his umbrella ) , Alexander Knox ( as a bumbling British MP forever mispronouncing names and giving out the wrong information ) , Clive Revill ( for no apparent reason in a dual role : as Bogarde's right-hand man who keeps the accounts even on the field of battle and as Vitti's " father " , an Arabian Sheik ! ) , Rossella Falk ( as the lethal Miss . Fothergill , Bogarde's manly assistant , who keeps a regiment of mostly aging men in shape through arduous physical exercise ) , Saro Urzi ( as a lowly , opera-singing henchman of Bogarde's ) , Tina Aumont ( as an ill-fated conquest / informer of Stamp's ) and real-life magician Silvan ( as a duplicitous circus performer ) . Ultimately , while the plot is too convoluted to follow at times and the film itself may not be in the same league as Mario Bava's DANGER : DIABOLIK ( 1968 ) or even Roger Vadim's BARBARELLA ( 1968 ) , it's certainly an engaging spy spoof and far better than its reputation suggests .
THUNDER OF BATTLE ( Giorgio Ferroni , 1964 )	After the recent misfire that was HERCULES AGAINST MOLOCH ( 1963 ) - with which it shares director Ferroni and co-stars Gordon Scott and Rosalba Neri - I was actually surprised by this one : Scott , wooden though he is , probably has his best such role here - and , at least , much like the Steve Reeves of THE Trojan HORSE ( 1961 ; incidentally , also a Ferroni film ) , he isn't required to be a he-man ! The film also boasts an above-average , albeit one-note , villain in Alberto Lupo . Unfortunately , however , Neri was a lot better used as a villainess in HERCULES than as Scott's dutiful wife here ! While the action and the spectacle is par for the course , to me , the most satisfying aspect of the film is its complex and thoroughly engaging plot - with Lupo conniving with the enemies of Rome behind its back and then conspiring to banish Scott . . . who eventually leads the enemy to march on Rome and rid it of Lupo's corrupt influence . Finally , it was refreshing to watch a film about the Roman Empire from a simpler era - serving as an antidote to the general unpleasantness and the unwarranted vulgarity of the ROME ( 2005 ) TV series . . .
COUNT Dracula ( Jesus Franco , 1969 )	I'd been wanting to check out Franco's ' faithful ' rendition of Bram Stoker's classic vampire tale ever since I came upon a review of it in two horror-film reference books from the mid-70s written by Alan Frank . When the Dark Sky R1 DVD was announced , I was overjoyed ? but this was soon dissipated by reports that their print was missing some footage ; I still intended to pick up that edition for the interesting supplements ( Franco interview , star Christopher Lee reading excerpts from the novel ) , but an upcoming German 2-Disc Set is supposed to be complete as well as featuring an Audio Commentary with Franco and co-star Fred Williams ! Anyway , having watched the film now ? via the Spanish DVD ? I don't think the additional footage was fair trade for the lack of an option to include the English-language track ( or , at least , English subtitles ) ; while I'm obviously familiar with the storyline , so that I had no difficulty following the proceedings , I missed hearing the Stoker dialogue ? not to mention Lee and Herbert Lom's distinctive voices ! Its overall effect is worlds removed from the Hammer outings which starred Lee : these were actually still going on when COUNT Dracula was made , but he had become increasingly disenchanted with their approach . Low-key , deliberately-paced and hampered by severe budgetary constraints ( resulting in shoddy effects and a distinct lack of props ) , the film nevertheless makes the most of its Spanish locations ? even if Manuel Merino's shaky camera-work displays an unwarranted propensity for zoom shots ( while an attack , ostensibly taking the vampire's POV , then bafflingly reveals Dracula to be coming from a totally different direction ! ) . The soundtrack highlights Bruno Nicolai's typically reliable score ( at once evocative and moody ) , but it's punctuated by weird ? and amusing ? slurping sounds during the vampire attacks ! The Spanish DVD presents the film in its correct full-frame aspect ratio , though the transfer itself lends the whole an unrealistic orange hue ( as opposed to the bluish tones , for night-time sequences , which have been mentioned online with respect to the Dark Sky edition ) . It has been said that Lee's performance in COUNT Dracula is superior to his various interpretations in the Hammer films : while I certainly appreciated his different approach to the role , he is still given relatively little time in which to work his magic ( no pun intended ) ; interestingly , the vampire starts off as an old man here but is gradually rejuvenated through his bloodsucking habits ( a concept originating in Stoker and picked up again by Francis Ford Coppola for his BRAM STOKER'S Dracula [ 1992 ] , another would-be rigorous adaptation ) . The rest of the main cast is virtually a " Who's Who " of Franco's filmography during this time : Herbert Lom makes for an imposing Van Helsing ( due to the language barrier , I didn't understand why he was suddenly wheelchair-bound ? but , from the " Eccentric Cinema " review , I gathered that the character had suffered a stroke ) ; Klaus Kinski is a creepy Renfield ( able to create a character by saying almost nothing at all ? he had already done similar duties for Franco as the Marquis De Sade in the 1968 version of " Justine " and , by the way , it's interesting that the actor would himself eventually play Dracula twice , in NOSFERATU , THE VAMPYRE [ 1979 ] and the Italian-made NOSFERATU A VENEZIA [ 1988 ] ) ; Maria Rohm as Mina ( looking ravishing but who's rather underused throughout ) ; Soledad Miranda as Lucy ( she only really comes into her own when turned into a vampire , which actually precedes her iconic turn in Franco's VAMPYROS LESBOS ( 1970 ) ? itself a very loose adaptation of " Dracula " ! ) ; Fred Williams as Harker ; Jack Taylor as Quincey ; Paul Muller as Dr . Seward ; and even Franco himself as Van Helsing's dopey-looking yet vaguely sinister manservant . For all its shortcomings ( it wouldn't be a Franco film if it weren't flawed ) , COUNT Dracula still provides a fair quota of memorable moments : Dracula silencing the wolves outside his castle ; Dracula feeding a baby to his ' brides ' ; Dracula's attacks on Miranda , twice interrupted by Rohm ( whom he eventually gets to , of all places , at an opera house ! ) ; Miranda's bloody demise in her coffin ; the stuffed animals in Dracula's London home coming to life to scare the vampire hunters ; Lom burning a cross-shape on the floor in his clinic to ward off the approaching vampire ; blood spurting in Taylor's face from his staking of a vampire woman in Dracula's castle ; Dracula's fiery come-uppance ( actually similar to Miranda's ? not to mention Bela Lugosi in the 1931 Universal classic ? in that he's dispatched while at his most vulnerable , i . e . asleep in his coffin ) . It's unfortunate that none of the companies who released ? or are set to release ? the film on DVD seem to hold the rights to CUADECUC , VAMPIR ( 1970 ) , a documentary shot at the time of COUNT Dracula's production . By the way , I should eventually be following this viewing of the film with several more Francos , including alternate versions of two monster mashes on similar lines ( but even more idiosyncratic ) , namely Dracula ? PRISONER OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1971 ) and THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN aka THE EROTIC RITES OF FRANKENSTEIN ( ) .
MAGIC TOWN ( William A . Wellman , 1947 )	Written and produced by frequent Frank Capra collaborator Robert Riskin and starring the director's three-time leading man James Stewart , one would be excused for mistaking this for a film by the celebrated purveyor of socially-conscious comedies . However , while the plot is typically original and engaging , somehow it lacks Capra's unique cinematic expertise in putting over Riskin's ideas : the tone is too often syrupy and sentimental , while the hero isn't made to face formidable villains such as one finds in Capra's work . Even if director Wellman was more at home in outdoor actioners , he often displayed a social side and , for the record , had previously triumphed in two classic films set in contemporary times ? namely the original version of A STAR IS BORN and the screwball comedy NOTHING SACRED ( 1937 ) . Stewart is a poll expert who believes that one city in the U . S . could be deemed the reference point as to how the whole nation thinks and feels about all aspects of life ? its aspirations , trends , political views , etc . His report leads him to settle on the small Midwestern town of Grandview which , however , is on the point of modernizing itself ( via a project bequeathed to local reporter Jane Wyman by her father ) . This would , doubtless , affect the idealized image being promoted by Stewart of Grandview as the prototypical American town with its simple way of life , so he manipulates the populace ( without letting them on to his line of work ) into opposing Wyman's scheme ! This doesn't prevent the two from falling in love ? a romance which ends , though , when she overhears him speaking to his superior in New York ; distraught , she exposes his racket ? but , in so doing , brings a whole circus of ' prospectors ' and newshounds upon Grandview ? so that the next poll turns out to be a disaster , and the town is disgraced ! Stewart is dismayed by all of this ; however , he keeps in touch with the people of Grandview ( the kids especially had learned to look up to him in view of his basketball prowess ! ) and , of course , Wyman . Eventually , he hits upon the idea that a pompous statement made earlier ( but which remained unpublished ) by the highest authorities in Grandview that , if necessary , they'll erect the proposed civic centre with their own hands could be used now to symbolize the town's determination to re-emerge ? An RKO production , the film also features such reliable performers as Ned Sparks and Donald Meek as Stewart's associates , Kent Smith as a Grandview professor and ex-school chum of Stewart's , and Wallace Ford as one of the eminent townspeople .
. . . AND JUSTICE FOR ALL ( Norman Jewison , 1979 )	For some reason , I have never bothered seeking out this film before even though it did occasionally play on TV over the years . While the impeccable talent involved would lead us to believe that we'd be in for heavy courtroom drama , surprisingly enough the film tries to be a sort of MASH for the judicial system but here the humor comes off as forced most of the time . The film is developed in too episodic a fashion , some of which please and some of which are irrelevant ( as much as it was nice to see Lee Strasberg and Sam Levene in their scenes together , there roles serve no real purpose ) and the many cases lawyer Pacino is seen dealing with only manage to render the film longer . Christine Lahti is good in her role but her obligatory relationship with Pacino seems tacked on . The assortment of weird characters ( both among the convicts and the court officials ) are too outrageous to be believable , if occasionally hilarious as in the case of Jack Warden who seems to be more appropriate as part of the crazy aristocratic family seen in THE RULING CLASS ( 1971 ) ! Most importantly , however , Pacino is in great form and the climactic trial sequence ( also involving John Forsythe and Craig T . Nelson ) is reasonably effective .
THE STOLEN JOOLS ( William C . McGann , 1931 )	Believe it or not , this unique all-star comedy short was financed by a tobacco-producing company in aid of charity ! Practically everybody who was anybody in Hollywood circa 1931 puts in an appearance here during its mildly enjoyable but thoroughly fascinating 18-minute run : seasoned copper Wallace Beery sending rookie Buster Keaton to patrol the streets of L . A . , detective team supreme of Laurel & Hardy arriving on the scene of the titular crime ( belonging to Norma Shearer , no less ) and having their car disassemble itself right there and then , Victor McLaglen and Edmund Lowe ( in character as Flagg and Quirt ) waited on by Swede El Brendel at a restaurant , Warner Baxter ( again in character as The Cisco Kid ? for which he was awarded an Oscar in 1929 ) flirting with the ladies , gangsters Edward G . Robinson and George E . Stone hiding out in a hotel lobby , Richard Dix and Irene Dunne ? whom I have just seen teamed up in CIMARRON ( 1931 ) ? being questioned by a nosy investigator , editor Gary Cooper ordering reporter Eugene Palette about , Douglas Fairbanks Jr . taking a stroll with Loretta Young , a rare peak at the home of newly-weds Frank Fay and Barbara Stanwyck ( of whom , incidentally , I have just acquired a handful of rare movies ) ? plus Richard Barthelmess , Joe E . Brown ( donning a false beard ) , Maurice Chevalier , Joan Crawford , Jack Oakie , Wheeler & Woolsey ( whose brief bit here made me want to watch more of them ) , etc .
CAR WASH ( Michael Schultz , 1976 )	This modern ' black ' comedy is something of a cult but also patchy overall : surprisingly , it was written by future Hollywood film-maker Joel Schumacher and director Schultz , then , would eventually go on to make the fiasco that was the film version of The Beatles ' seminal album SGT . PEPPERS ' LONELY HEARTS CLUB BAND ( 1978 ) . It basically provides a microcosm of mid-1970s American attitudes ( and converging cultures ) in its ' day in the life ' depiction of the titular workplace : characters , costumes , hairstyles , soundtrack , even language are so obviously of their time that they both make and date the film . Popular stand-up comics put in an appearance as well : George Carlin is a taxi driver forever in search of a female customer who ditched him but then doesn't recognize the girl when he comes face to face with her ( ! ) , while Richard Pryor has a showy role as a millionaire ( i . e . hypocritical ) evangelist . It's telling that perhaps the film's funniest gags are both gross in nature : one has a boy constantly throwing up and another in which an old man's urine sample-bottle is mistaken for an exploding liquid and destroyed !
THE MAGIC Christian ( Joseph McGrath , 1969 )	For a film decrying the fact that people will do anything for money , I wonder whether the personnel involved realized that by roping in a roster of stars – often to embarrassing effect ( more on this later ) – they would themselves be guilty of just such a crime ! Anyway , it has garnered a considerable cult reputation with the years : I had come across portions of the film on late-night Italian TV several years back – and , in view of the excess of talent on hand , I’d always wanted to check it out . However , despite a promising theme , it never quite catches fire as a satire and now feels extremely dated into the bargain ! Peter Sellers , the era’s reigning comic genius , offers another of his trademark larger-than-life characters ; ex-Beatle Ringo Starr plays his adopted son , but his role isn’t very well defined ( former bandmate Paul McCartney , then , contributes the catchy " Come And Get It " to the film’s soundtrack – which also includes Thunderclap Newman’s signature song , " Something In The Air " ) . Resolving itself into a series of sketches to hit as many targets as it possibly can , the film is undeniably amusing on occasion but the overall effect is decidedly uneven – and the general tone more heavy-handed than incisive . It does provide a bridge between two specialized brands of British humor , The Goons ( of which Sellers himself had been a member , along with Spike Milligan who turns up in a cameo ) and Monty Python ( Graham Chapman and John Cleese also put in appearances and even contributed to the script ) . To be honest , none of the guest stars are particularly well-used – but a few do provide unforgettable camp moments : Laurence Harvey’s strip-tease rendition of Hamlet , Yul Brynner’s unbilled cabaret act in drag ( ! ) seducing Roman Polanski , Raquel Welch as the " Priestess Of The Whip " overseeing the host of topless ‘slave-girls’ at the helm of the titular cruise-liner and Christopher Lee as the self-explanatory " Ship’s Vampire " . The film , then , culminates in a notorious climax as heaps of money are thrown into a vat filled with a stomach-turning combination of blood , urine and manure – and Sellers challenges the people of London to ‘go for it’ !
TWO MEN IN TOWN ( Jose ' Giovanni , 1973 )	Curiously enough , the central plot of this one is quite similar to that of ONCE A THIEF ( 1965 ; also starring Alain Delon and which I watched on the very same day ) ? though here it's even gloomier ( ultimately taking the form of a plea against capital punishment ) ! Incidentally , co-writer / director Giovanni had been a convict in real-life , and even wrote the novel which inspired Jacques Becker's marvelous prison-escape drama LE TROU ( 1960 ) . Anyway , Delon and Jean Gabin are well-teamed here ( this was the last of three films in which they appeared together , following ANY NUMBER CAN WIN [ 1963 ] and THE SICILIAN CLAN [ 1969 ] ) : the latter isn't particularly exerted by his role ? being , after all , among his last ? but the former is unusually committed and , in fact , he also served as the film's producer ! Mimsy Farmer appears as Delon's new lover following the tragic death of his wife in a road accident ; Michel Bouquet is memorable as the Javert-like police inspector who won't let Delon go ( a slinky but nastier version of the Van Heflin part in ONCE A THIEF ) ; Gerard Depardieu has a brief role at the beginning as a wannabe criminal associate of Delon's .
Buffalo Bill And The Indians , Or Sitting Bull's History Lesson ( Robert Altman , 1976 )	Altman's name isn't readily associated with Westerns and , in fact , the film's genre classification is tenuous at best : like LITTLE BIG MAN ( 1970 ) , it pokes fun at Western myths - but , while the former was given an epic perspective , this one's a talkfest ( it originated as a stage play ) which barely strays outside of the titular character's sideshow setting ! This was star Paul Newman's fourth ( ! ) stab at a Western ' hero ' , following Billy The Kid , Butch Cassidy and Judge Roy Bean ; he is alternately dashing and amusing in the role but , like the Custer of Arthur Penn's film ( mentioned above ) , he goes mad towards the end . He later collaborated again with Altman on QUINTET ( 1979 ) which , being a science-fiction film , was equally unlikely territory for the director to dabble in ! Still , as is typical of Altman , he has assembled a wonderful - and eclectic - cast : Burt Lancaster ( as the man behind the legend of Buffalo Bill ) , an unrecognizable Joel Grey and Kevin McCarthy ( as Bill's side-kicks ) , Harvey Keitel ( as Newman's nephew ! ) , Geraldine Chaplin ( as Annie Oakley ) and Will Sampson ( as Sitting Bull's ' interpreter ' ) . Ultimately , while not particularly compelling ( there is very little plot to speak of ) , the film remains consistently interesting throughout and it actually emerged the winner of the top prize at the Berlin Film Festival ! Unfortunately , however , the Italian-dubbed print I watched was cut - as the film only ran for about 100 minutes , whereas its complete running time is officially given as 123 !
THE BIG NIGHT ( Joseph Losey , 1951 )	From Losey's American feature films ( a period which barely lasted four years , when he fell victim to political persecution ) I had only previously watched his eccentric debut , THE BOY WITH GREEN HAIR ( 1948 ) . The same year he made THE BIG NIGHT , a low-budget noir , he directed two other thrillers - THE PROWLER , Losey's own favorite from this early phase of his career and M , an Americanization of Fritz Lang's German masterpiece . Both these films promise to be a good deal more interesting than the ones I watched , and I hope I get the chance to view them someday . . . Anyway , back to THE BIG NIGHT : in itself , it wasn't too bad but it didn't feel at all like a Losey film ; perhaps that's because I'm not used to watching him dealing with an American setting - but it's still a minor film , not quite knowing where it's going and not even that compelling while it's on . The noir-ish atmosphere ( courtesy of cinematographer Hal Mohr ) , however , is quite interestingly deployed - sometimes with an audacious psychological resonance , as in the nightclub scene where a riotous drum solo brings back to lead John Barrymore Jr . ( looking more like Sean Penn than his matinée ' idol father ! ) memories of his father's vicious beating at the hands of a crippled but influential sports columnist ( an effectively sinister Howard St . John ) ; the latter episode is actually a key scene , which sets the plot in motion and sends Barrymore - who witnessed father Preston Foster's humiliation and whom he idolized - seething with revenge in search of St . John . The characters are largely stereotypes - caring bartender ( Foster owns a bar ) , philosophical drunk pal , his bitter girlfriend ( a rather spent Dorothy Comingore , who 10 years earlier had played Susan Alexander in CITIZEN KANE [ 1941 ] ! ) , her good-girl sister who falls for and yearns to ' save ' Barrymore , shady promoter Emil Meyer ( a dry run for his memorable turn as a crooked cop in SWEET SMELL OF SUCCESS [ 1957 ] ) , etc . - but the last act provides a couple of ironic twists involving the characters of Foster , St . John and the tragic fate of a woman they both loved in their own way .
MOSQUITO SQUADRON ( Boris Sagal , 1969 )	At a time when many a star-studded and big-budgeted WWII actioner emerged , this modest effort seemed definitely like second-tier material – offering customary but efficient thrills and decent spectacle , somewhat in the vein of 633 SQUADRON ( 1964 ) . . . with which it shares much of the plot and action footage ! In this respect , the film also owes its German secret weapon to OPERATION CROSSBOW ( 1965 ) and its bouncing bombs to THE DAM BUSTERS ( 1955 ) ; no wonder , then , that the end result feels awfully contrived ( particularly at the climax , when successive to a couple of failed attempts , it has a wounded pilot wilfully crash smack into the warehouse where the rockets are manufactured ! ) . Besides , the narrative tends too often towards romantic / sentimental complications : the relationship between the two leads being obstructed , for one thing , by the hero having been the best friend of the woman’s husband and , later , by the knowledge he shares with her maimed brother that the man had survived an air crash but is being kept prisoner in a château marked for obliteration during an Allied air raid led by the hero himself ! The credentials are strictly below-par ( the score , typically an asset in this type of flick , attempts to be rousing but succeeds only in being bland ) and the casting a mix of TV actors ( THE MAN FROM U . N . C . L . E . ’s David McCallum – who delivers a brooding performance – and Suzanne Neve from U . F . O . ) and colorful character performers ( Charles Gray as the pompous yet stern Air Commodore and Vladek Sheybal as the erudite but fishy Nazi officer in charge of the prison / plant fortress ) . Mind you , while being no great shakes ( and probably instantly forgettable ) , the film proves mildly engaging – to say nothing of eminently watchable – along the way ; when all is said and done , there are certainly far worse titles to spend 90 minutes of your life on . . .
THE Oscar ( Russell Rouse , 1966 )	This is another all-star film I'd long wanted to watch ? with the added attraction of a Hollywood / Oscar backdrop ? but which ultimately proved a disappointment ? so that it's small wonder it seems to have fallen through the cracks over the years ( in fact , I have had to make do with a panned-and-scanned copy culled from VHS ) ! The film is glossy ( itself earning Oscar nominations in two categories i . e . art direction / set decoration and costume design ) , undeniably interesting ( though hardly reaping its full potential given the narrative's regrettable emphasis on characters ' private lives rather than the business side of things ) and with entertainingly high-pitched performances ( especially star Stephen Boyd ) and dialogue . As such , it's extremely typical of the cynical era from which it emanates ( another similar title is Robert Aldrich's equally hard-to-find THE LEGEND OF LYLAH CLARE [ 1968 ] ) ? but the fact that it deals with matters that the people involved should be familiar with doesn't prevent a veneer of artifice throughout , not to mention a tendency towards cliché ? though , to be fair , the similar but vastly superior THE BAD AND THE BEAUTIFUL ( 1952 ) paints an equally melodramatic picture of Hollywood ! Boyd plays an aspiring actor who tramples over everybody , especially those closest to him ( Tony Bennett , Jill St . John , Eleanor Parker , Elke Sommer and Milton Berle ) in order to achieve his goal and stay at the top . Yet , we never ever see him at work ? which is baffling when considering the film's generous two-hour duration ? so that we watch him ( in flashback during a make-or-break Oscar ceremony ) going from a nobody to a celebrity to a wash-out without really understanding his rags-to-riches-to-rags progression ! The supporting cast also includes Ernest Borgnine as a private eye-cum-blackmailer and Joseph Cotten as the disgruntled studio head while a plethora of other stars ? such as Ed Begley , Walter Brennan , Broderick Crawford and Peter Lawford ? appear in cameos ; on the other hand , Edith Head , Bob Hope ( typically , he's the emcee on Oscar night ) , Merle Oberon and Frank Sinatra ( the eventual recipient of the coveted statuette ! ) make a guest appearance as themselves .
GRAN CASINO ( Luis Bunuel , 1947 )	Since January of this year ? after I attended the Luis Bunuel retrospective at London's National Film Theatre ? this had been the only title left for me to watch out of the filmography of my all-time favorite director ; thanks to Lionsgate's 2-Disc " Luis Bunuel Collection " ( also containing THE YOUNG ONE [ 1960 ] ) , I finally made it now ? an effort which took me all of 15 years to accomplish ! The film was a surprisingly pleasant and engaging semi-musical but , clearly , a very minor work in the director's canon ; if one weren't aware of the circumstances behind its making ( the fact that Bunuel had been kept from directing for 15 years and that his comeback was possible only via a commercial studio product ) , one would think that the great Surrealist master was playing the ultimate joke on his audience ? by delivering a film which is virtually the antithesis of his style ( though , in retrospect , the idea of people suddenly breaking into song in a Bunuel movie is pretty surreal in itself ) ! That said , being the intimate film-maker that he is , he lends considerable attention to the contrasting milieux in which the proceedings take place ? the oil-fields and the titular location . Towards the end , the heroine ostensibly capitulates to the powerful foreign organization controlling the territory ? only to have the last laugh ( with the hero at her side ) as the all-important oil-wells are dynamited soon after their departure from town ! The male lead is likable , handsome and can certainly carry a tune ; he seems to find the overage leading lady desirable ? personally , I didn't share his enthusiasm and , in fact , was more intrigued by the younger and more attractive temptress ( who , during the course of the film led two men to their doom ) . Alfonso Bedoya , the leading Mexican bandit from John Huston's THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE ( 1948 ) , here plays the casino owner's grinning lieutenant ; he gets his just desserts in a striking ( and , in the context of the rest of the picture , quite disorientating ) scene showing the hero attacking Bedoya , who's hiding behind a curtain ? instead of cutting between the two men , Bunuel keeps the camera on one side of the curtain but then superimposes for a split-second on this same action the image of shattered glass , as if to imply the devastating effect of the blows Bedoya is receiving ! Another bravura sequence is the one involving the old female kleptomaniac , a hanger-on at the casino ; while in the company of the hero , we see the distorted reflection of her facial features in a shiny champagne bucket he's casually holding ( as if to remind us of her crooked nature ) . The director's hand is also felt in his completely unsentimental handling of a would-be tender moment between the budding lovers : while the heroine remarks about the strong odor particular to an oil-field , the hero nonchalantly picks away at a pool of mud with a stick ! Bunuel also manages to incorporate a nod to Hitchcock in this film ? the ' safety in numbers ' routine often used by the Master Of Suspense : here , feeling threatened by the presence of the rival's thugs at the casino , the hero leaps onto the stage and proceeds to lead the audience in a rousing musical ensemble ! Also worth mentioning here is the recurringly surreal presence of the Trio Calaveras , amiable singing peasants who turn up simply to back up the hero's vocals ? wherever he happens to be at the time ( in jail , at the oil-field , at the casino ) and literally out of nowhere ; at one point , even he seems surprised by their sudden appearance and acknowledges them with a bemused nod ! I hadn't listened to an Audio Commentary in a long time but couldn't pass checking this one out ? since such lengthy discussions of Bunuel's work are a rare commodity . Philip Kemp's track didn't disappoint ( incidentally , the British film critic had introduced screenings of Kon Ichikawa's AN ACTOR'S REVENGE ( 1963 ) and THE WANDERERS [ 1973 ] in a 2002 retrospective of that director's work , also at London's National Film Theater , which my brother and I were lucky to attend ) , as he went into some detail about this film's production history . Among the things I didn't know , he mentioned that there was an on-set rivalry between its two singing stars ? Libertad Lamarque and Jorge Negrete ? so much so that they were accorded an equal number of songs but wouldn't agree to appear in a duet ( which is certainly unusual for a musical ) ! Besides , Lamarque was blacklisted sometime before this film's release after a disparaging remark she made about a then-colleague of hers ? Evita Peron ! ! Kemp also mentions that Bunuel was contemplating a remake of Robert Bresson's marvelous debut film , LES ANGES DU PECHE ' ( 1943 ) , before he eventually embarked on this decidedly more modest enterprise ( still , the cast of the film is filled with distinguished actors of the time and place ? several of whom would re-appear in subsequent Bunuel titles ) . Finally , one word about the collection itself : while this 2-disc 2-film set is decidedly less impressive than Lionsgate's previous tribute to another cinema giant ? Jean Renoir ( comprising a good 7 films spread over 3 discs ! ) , one is still grateful for their commitment in releasing two of his more obscure efforts . That said , it was incredibly sloppy of them to have mislabeled the DVDs ? so that , in order to watch GRAN CASINO , I had to insert the disc of THE YOUNG ONE instead !
MR . FREEDOM ( William Klein , 1969 )	I have always been intrigued by a still of the entrancing Delphine Seyrig in a majorette outfit gracing the cover of one of my favorite issues of the British film magazine " The Movie " – which , among others , discussed in detail such films as Michelangelo Antonioni’s L’ AVVENTURA ( 1960 ) , Alain Resnais’ LAST YEAR IN MARIENDBAD ( 1961 ) , Chris Marker’s LA JETEE ' ( 1962 ) and John Frankenheimer’s THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE ( 1962 ) ; on closer inspection , I found out that the film in question was one I was unaware of and , under the circumstances , I took to be an ordinary potboiler . Several years later , I learned on the Internet that both MR . FREEDOM and its director’s preceding film , WHO ARE YOU , POLLY MAGGOO ? ( 1966 ) had been released on DVD in France ( appropriately enough ) and , frankly I have been toying with the idea of picking them up ever since – despite their prohibitive price ( $30 apiece ) . Luckily , I held firm and , a couple of years later , Criterion’s more adventurous sister label Eclipse sprung the 3-Disc " The Delirious Fictions of William Klein " set – consisting of these two films and the later THE MODEL COUPLE ( 1977 ) – on a largely unsuspecting public . Once again , my interest was intensely aroused by the prospect of owning these enticing movies but , perhaps thankfully , their release came at a very low ebb in my DVD collecting hobby which , due to family problems and time constraints , has sensibly made me cut down on my reckless online purchasing ! Still , as a local saying goes , what doesn’t enter from the door , gets in through the window – and so it is that I have managed to score these three William Klein films via DivX torrents which , however , I then still had to convert to DVD-R given the fickle nature of imported English subtitles ! Despite its 2004 inclusion among eminent critic Jonathan Rosenbaum’s " 1000 Essential Films " and the fact that I was fully expecting to really love this one ( given its comic-strip leanings ) , regrettably I have to admit that MR . FREEDOM proved to be a case of a long wait for a certain title not being totally repaid on realization . Like William Cameron Mezies before him and anticipating Robert Fuest , William Klein was himself a writer-director-production designer whose unusual combination of talents likewise ( and understandably so ) gravitated him towards the fantasy genre when dabbling in movies . Anonymous actor John Abbey , then , is the arrogant all-American hero – the sometime Stetson-hat-wearing / sometime rugby-player-attired Mr . Freedom – and his pompous characteristics instantly reminded me of Eddie Constantine’s Lemmy Caution characterization in Jean-Luc Godard’s ALPHAVILLE ( 1965 ) – a film with which it shares not only the satirizing of pulp fiction heroes but , by extension , American intervention in foreign countries . Indeed , MR . FREEDOM can perhaps best be described as a wildly uneven and wholly unholy satirical blend of French Nouvelle Vague sensibilities , Pop-art kitsch and comic-strip campiness . Getting back to Delphine Seyrig , she has arguably never looked sexier than she does here – sporting a frizzy-haired red wig and that seemingly clashing cheerleader costume , she plays Mr . Freedom’s main associate ‘over there’ : French agent Marie-Madeleine ; also on their side is Abbey’s employer Dr . Freedom who , played by Donald Pleasence , only appears to him in intermittent TV communiqués . On the other hand , the villains are more opaque if not a little eccentric in themselves : Philippe Noiret is the inflated , cap-wearing Moujik-Man and then there is the dragon-like , life-size puppet Red Chinaman ! The film also features some notable ( and notably irreverent ) cameos : Yves Montand as the deceased French superhero , Capitaine Formidable , Serge Gainsbourg as a Mr . Freedom acolyte ( he also composed the film’s playful score ) and Sami Frey as Jesus Christ ! ! For the record , both Noiret and Frey had both already appeared in Klein’s WHO ARE YOU , POLLY MAGGOO ? Ultimately , you have to hand it to Eclipse for bravely going ahead with releasing on DVD – and , technically , for exclusive American consumption – this " most anti-American of anti-American films " during a period when anti-Bush / anti-Iraq War fervor is at its highest . But , then , isn’t the then-current anti-Vietnam War / anti-consumerist credo splattered all over the colorfully chaotic canvas of MR . FREEDOM ?
FURY AT SMUGGLERS ' BAY ( John Gilling , 1961 )	The title tells all in this second-rate but enjoyable adventure on a popular subject ; star Peter Cushing gives it his all , as ever , and he's matched by a larger-than-life performance by Bernard Lee as the chief villain . Still , Cushing's previous collaboration with writer / director Gilling ? THE FLESH AND THE FIENDS ( 1959 ) ? had proved a lot more substantial ( despite being shot in black-and-white ) . Anyway , the remaining cast includes veteran George Coulouris , playing a French merchant convicted by squire Cushing as a wrecker , while John Fraser ( in the role of the latter's son ) and Michele Mercier ( as the Frenchman's daughter ) comprise the requisite love interest . Other notable characters to figure in the plot are a mysterious highwayman known only as " The Captain " and a young boy who goes by the name of Juma ( also the name of the actor ! ) , both of whom start off by being in cahoots with Lee and his gang but gradually change loyalties to emerge heroic by the film's conclusion . The widescreen print I watched ( culled from the Region 2 DVD ) displays some color fading but is otherwise pretty decent . In the end , when compared to the similar but superior CAPTAIN CLEGG ( 1962 ; with Peter Cushing in the title role ) ? which being a Hammer production is , unsurprisingly , a more horror-oriented venture ? this is unassuming family fare ; two more films in the same vein I'd love to catch up with ( both , incidentally , Hammer titles co-starring Christopher Lee ) but which have never turned up in my neck of the woods are PIRATES OF BLOOD RIVER ( 1962 ; also directed by Gilling ) and THE DEVIL-SHIP PIRATES ( 1964 ) . . .
The Duchess And The Dirtwater Fox ( Melvin Frank , 1976 )	1976 was probably a crucial year in gauging the status of the Western as a feasible Hollywood film genre : apart from well-regarded titles like THE OUTLAW JOSEY WALES and THE RETURN OF A MAN CALLED HORSE , you had to contend with some notorious flops , of both the art-house ? Robert Altman's BUFFALO BILL AND THE INDIANS OR , SITTING BULL'S HISTORY LESSON and Arthur Penn's THE MISSOURII BREAKS ? and the spoof ? THE DUCHESS AND THE DIRTWATER FOX and THE GREAT SCOUT AND CATHOUSE THURSDAY ( which I've yet to catch up with ) ? variety . The star rating I gave to the film in question is an indication that it wasn't , in fact , as disastrous as contemporary ( and even more recent , in view of its release on DVD ) reviews would have you believe and I'd say it's even worthy of earning a place in my collection ? which should , of course , imply that it has rewatchability value . Goldie Hawn , George Segal and his amiably clumsy horse Blackjack are practically the whole show here and this is clearly one of those movies which rely heavily on the charisma ( or lack thereof ) of its leads for its success or otherwise . The screenplay does have some good lines ? including an amusingly protracted stagecoach conversation ( supposedly in French ) between the two stars which actually incorporates slangy English , French , Italian , Spanish and some Latin , too ? but the plot is rather too thin to sustain the film's length . Hawn is a saloon entertainer / hooker with ideas above her station : she gets to wear tarty outfits , sing a bawdy song in an English accent and board the aforementioned stagecoach to become " The Duchess " of the title , an English governess to a host of kids borne by a wealthy Mormon ; on the other hand , Segal is a luckless womanizing cardsharp who keeps getting caught cheating and finding himself at the wrong end of the noose ; he eventually manages to abscond with $40 , 000 in stolen loot to the eternal chagrin of a ramshackle band of outlaws . The bag containing the money changes owners more often than these characters take a bath and , along the way , Hawn and Segal finally make love aboard a canoe approaching some deadly rapids , take refuge in a Jewish wedding ceremony and are bound together and left to roast under the baking desert sun . The change in mood towards the end ? where Segal is repeatedly shot in the final confrontation with the gang ? is far from smoothly handled but the open-ended conclusion nevertheless manages to end the film on a lighter note .
PRESS FOR TIME ( Robert Asher , 1966 )	This is the last film in Carlton's 12-Disc " The Norman Wisdom Collection " ( and his last official starring vehicle ) , also made in color and featuring the star in no less than three roles - a young ne'er-do-well , his ex-suffragette mother and the spastic British Prime Minister ( who'd rather not get involved with his lowly relatives ) . It's not bad and the star - who's beginning to show his age - is in good form , with the best scenes being his disruption of a Council meeting and the sustained set-piece in which he contrives to destroy the stage during the inauguration of a new housing block ( followed shortly by the edifice itself ) . Bafflingly , the only film of Wisdom's not to have made it to DVD as yet is the well-regarded caper THERE WAS A CROOKED MAN ( 1960 ) as , in fact , even the atypical THE GIRL ON THE BOAT ( 1962 ) has been given a budget release ! In any case , PRESS FOR TIME is also notable for the presence of Stanley Unwin ( as the Town Clerk ) , an eccentric British comic best-known today perhaps for providing the " gibberish " narration to The Small Faces ' song suite on Side Two of their classic psychedelic album , " Ogden's Nut Gone Flake " ( 1968 ) . The film's lively score , then , was the first for the cinema by ex-Manfred Mann band member , Mike Vickers , who would go on to score a number of rather dismal British fantasy flicks . Curiously enough , PRESS FOR TIME was produced by Robert Hartford-Davis and Peter Newbrook ( serving also as cinematographer ) who are best-known as directors for their own dabblings in the Horror genre like THE FIEND ( 1971 ) and THE ASPHYX ( 1973 ) respectively !
The Mistress Of Atlantis ( G . W . Pabst , 1932 )	COMRADESHIP ( 1931 ) can be said to have marked the relative end of the most fruitful period in the career of renowned German film-maker G . W . Pabst that had seen him create a handful of classics of World Cinema ; in fact , his next venture was a very ambitious undertaking ? an adaptation ( in distinct German , French and English-language versions ) of Pierre Benoit's epic adventure novel L'ATLANTIDE ? but one that , in hindsight , would prove only partially successful . Another distinguished film-maker , Frenchman Jacques Feyder , had already made a celebrated stab at the material as a 3-hour Silent epic in 1921 and , over the years , other established film-makers ? John Brahm , Frank Borzage , Edgar G . Ulmer , Vittorio Cottafavi , George Pal , Ruggero Deodato , Bob Swaim and even " Walt Disney " ? would find themselves attracted to the subject of the mythical lost empire . Admittedly , I have never read Benoit's original source and this 1932 English-language version is the first cinematic adaptation of it that I am watching but , is not Atlantis supposed to be an undersea kingdom ? In fact , a recent study even went so far as to imply that the island of Malta ( from where I hail ) might well have formed part of Atlantis centuries ago ! How come , therefore , that here ( and , reportedly , likewise the other adaptations ) it is situated in sandy desert dunes ? A criticism leveled at the Feyder film had been that his choice of leading lady ( the entrancing Queen of Atlantis ) was all wrong but Pabst certainly got that bit down perfectly when he cast Brigitte Helm ? best-known for playing the two Marias in Fritz Lang's METROPOLIS ( 1927 ) as Antinea . The plot has a little of H . Rider Haggard's SHE about it as two legionnaires stumble onto Atlantis in the Sahara desert and lose themselves within its labyrinthine dungeons replete with Antinea's past male conquests that have either gone mad or been mummified ! The two male leads seemed slightly overage to me but , in any case , whatever acting capabilities they might possess would essentially have been dwarfed by the awesome sets and imaginative camera-work . As a matter of fact , this is where the film's main fault lies : the protagonists ' plight never moves us as it should , even when one kills the other over Antinea or when , after her terrible secret is revealed to him , the survivor decides to go back to Atlantis anyway . The fleeting appearances of an eccentric ' prisoner ' of Antinea ( who speaks with a distinctly upper-class British accent and sports a Daliesque moustache ) adds to the fun quotient but , overall , the stilted rendition of the dialogue ( even Helm utters her own scarce lines in English ) is on a par with other films from the early Talkie era . For the record , although every listing I have checked of this film gives its running time as 87 minutes , the version I watched ran for just 78 ! Incidentally , a movie I should be catching up with presently ? DESERT LEGION ( 1953 ) with Alan Ladd , Richard Conte and Arlene Dahl ? is said to have been partially inspired by Benoit's L'ATLANTIDE itself !
GODSPELL ( David Greene , 1973 )	My first viewing ( in a Pan-and-Scan version ) of this one had left me underwhelmed - recorded off Cable TV , I had subsequently erased the tape - and , so , I decided to give it another chance via Columbia's bare-bones DVD . I have to say that the overall impression hasn't changed much the second time around : still , the film ( and show ) is perhaps unjustly overshadowed by the contemporaneous - but more focused and , therefore , more crowd-pleasing - Jesus Christ SUPERSTAR ( 1973 ) . The songs by Stephen Schwarz are pretty good , with the best numbers among them - " Prepare Ye The Way Of The Lord " , " Day By Day " and " Finale " - possessing a decidedly haunting quality . Besides , their staging ( shot on location in New York City , with much prominence given to the World Trade Center ! ) is undeniably energetic ; the confrontation with a tin monster ( standing in for the Pharisees ) is particularly inspired . There are also some unexpected cinematic references here : the " Slowly I Turned " Abbott & Costello routine , the song " Turn Back , O Man " delivered in the tawdry style of Mae West and , most amusing of all , the parable of the Prodigal Son shown via a collage of footage from various unidentified Silent films ! What hasn't aged well are the various hippie / ethnic characterizations on display ( including an insipid and curly-haired Christ ! ) , with their mostly silly antics - amid re-enactments of episodes from St . Matthew's Gospel - rendering the film's pacing uneven to say the least . . .
CIRCUS OF FEAR ( John Moxey , 1966 )	This film is living proof of the wonders a stunning-looking print on DVD can do to a film : when I first saw it ( in a dubbed version on late-night Italian TV ) , I had felt it was nothing more than average and dismissed it somewhat . Truth be told , a few weeks prior to this I had watched the other Christopher Lee / John Moxey film - THE CITY OF THE DEAD ( 1960 ) - by way of VCI's exemplary DVD edition , and perhaps I compared it unfavorably to this minor horror classic . I had long known Blue Underground were preparing a SE and I was not sure it was worthwhile for me to invest in it , but now I'm certainly glad I did because I enjoyed the film immensely ( even though I had my heart in my throat all the time , expecting the picture to freeze and break up any minute - which , thankfully , did not occur ! ) . It's still nothing great , I guess ( Lee certainly made many better films where his talents were more immediately in evidence ; the hood and the fairly ridiculous accent hamper his performance here somewhat ) but it's easily the best film from BU's " The Christopher Lee Collection " Set - and in fact it and the restored edition of THE BLOODY JUDGE ( 1970 ) , not forgetting the plentiful and wonderful supplements , save this relatively expensive purchase from being a wasted opportunity ( considering the low profile of all four titles in the Lee canon ) ! The plot is pretty convoluted ( I can certainly believe Jess Franco here when he said that Harry Alan Towers is a very good writer , not evidenced by the two Fu Manchu films ) : while the identity of the killer could have easily been established if one had thought about it for a while ( considering it follows the Agatha Christie maxim that the least suspicious-looking character is indeed the guilty party ) but , frankly , the film provides red herrings and new twists at every turn that when the final revelation is made , it still comes as fairly surprising ( it's perhaps harder to swallow that the buffoonish if clearly ambitious Eddie could be the delicious Margaret Lee's secret lover ! ) . The film also features an arresting opening robbery sequence and is beautifully shot for such a low-budget film . The music score is very atmospheric and the circus scenes consist mainly of stock footage but the lion-taming and knife-throwing acts inject a measure of excitement at appropriate moments . Casting is certainly above-average for this type of film ; there are some pretty good performances here : Leo Genn's above all as the amiable yet dogged Police Inspector ; Margaret Lee is more than a radiant beauty - despite her sluttish character , she was fairly sympathetic ( especially after having been threatened by a lion ) and I think that the film loses something with her sudden , tragic exit ; I liked Skip Martin a lot , amusingly named " Mr . Big " - he is a pretty interesting character to begin with ( sort of a cynical Chorus to the proceedings ) , and even more so for being involved in some shady business on the side , for which he gets his just desserts in the end ! ; Klaus Kinski is eminently watchable despite his limited role ( at least he does manage an effective death scene ) ; Cecil Parker added some nice but not overstated British humor ; Heinz Drache made for a pretty engaging hero ; Suzy Kendall , on the other hand , was more decorative than anything else - though , in all fairness , she could only do so much with her thinly-written role . As I've already mentioned , it's disappointing that Christopher Lee was not involved at all with this release ; an interview would have been nice . The gloved killer of this film brings up comparisons with the giallos being made contemporaneously in Italy , though it's nowhere near as violent ( in fact , this one is pretty tame in the scares / gore department ) . I did notice some flaws in the story : Christopher Lee taking off his hood when his mortal enemy ( Drache ) is beside him is a miscalculation , in my opinion ; ditto , we never learn how Drache finds Lee and Kendall's hiding-place in the cave so easily when we had just been told the Police had scoured the area thoroughly , bearing no results ! Also , Lee's death comes as a surprise : he is not the villain and if it was done because it was deemed ' obligatory ' , it was certainly a silly move ! I only saw the film for the first time a couple of years back but , for the life of me , I have no idea what constitutes the ' new ' 8-minute sequence which was supposedly unearthed for this release ? Can anyone shed some light on the matter ? The Audio Commentary is somewhat dry , though Moxey's enthusiasm for his films ( if not his memory of them ) is constantly felt throughout the discussion ; again , disappointingly , the cuts this film was subjected to are hardly mentioned and certainly not listed in any way - though , in all fairness , Moxey probably wouldn't have watched any of the export versions ( not recently anyway ) !
The Serpent And The Rainbow ( Wes Craven , 1988 )	I had intended to watch this one after I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE ( 1943 ) , given its similar voodoo backdrop ; however , I could only manage to follow THE GHOST SHIP ( 1943 ) with it - and that's because the latter doesn't have an accompanying Audio Commentary on Warners ' DVD edition ! It's an intriguing film with some very striking imagery - particularly during the numerous hallucinations which afflict lead Bill Pullman ( the most incredible was the snake darting out of a corpse's mouth ! ) - but which is rather too unpleasant in detail to be easily enjoyed . The cast also highlights Cathy Tyson ( star of MONA LISA [ 1986 ] ) as the Haitian doctor who helps - and falls for - Pullman , Paul Winfield as a local mystic , the always welcome Michael Gough ( as Pullman's boss back in the U . S . - who ends up witnessing , with the former , a rather effective dinner-table possession by the wife of their mutual employer ! ) , Brent Jennings ( as a specialized drug dealer ) and , particularly , Zakes Mokae as the truly evil figure of authority who crushes down all opposition with brutal methods ( but also resorting to the supernatural if this proves especially persistent ! ) . Still , the zombies here end up being something of a cheat - but , given the film's supposed basis in reality , I guess that's understandable . Then again , there's an effects-laden climax ( including an amusing bit in which the Paul Winfield character tears off his own head and throws it at Pullman ! ) which is not a little far-fetched ; the utterly convincing location work does , however , bring to life the dire political situation of Haiti at the time . Unfortunately , footage of cockfighting was censored for the U . K . version - and , in fact , there are no such scenes in the Region 2 DVD I watched ! Apparently , Wade Davis ( the author of the book on which the film was based ) had higher aspirations for his story , as his ideal choice of director was Peter Weir - with Mel Gibson as the star ! ! This is surely among the best ( of the admittedly little I've watched ) of Craven's work ; however , I'll be making amends with another title I rented - THE PEOPLE UNDER THE STAIRS ( 1991 ) - and should be receiving the R1 2-Disc Set of THE HILLS HAVE EYES ( 1977 ; purchased as part of a Halloween Horror Sale at Deep Discount DVD ) in the coming weeks . . .
10 ( Blake Edwards , 1979 )	I've watched relatively few of director Edwards ' non-PINK PANTHER films ; among the ones I own that I've yet to catch up with are DAYS OF WINE AND ROSES ( 1962 ) , WHAT DID YOU DO IN THE WAR , DADDY ? ( 1966 ) and S . O . B . ( 1981 ) . This one proved among Edwards ' most successful films ( though the curt , with-it title emerges to be rather meaningless ) , drawing attention to itself for treating a serious subject such as mid-life crisis in semi-comedic vein ? though , ultimately , it's nowhere near as incisive or cinematically deft as Luis Bunuel's THAT OBSCURE OBJECT OF DESIRE ( 1977 ) wherein , likewise , a well-respected man continuously humiliates himself in his reckless pursuit of a much younger girl ( s ) ? and , besides , results in being unbalanced somewhat by the slapstick passages . Edwards wrote the script for 10 himself : among the more notable dialogue stretches involve an argument between leads Dudey Moore and Julie Andrews ( the director's real-life wife ) regarding the definition of the ostensibly disparaging term " broad " , and another later on between Moore and Bo Derek ? his character's ' object of desire ' ? with respect to the girl's casual attitude towards sex . Even if she doesn't really feature in it till the last third , Derek became a sex symbol thanks to 10 ; that said , her contribution ( mixing disarming naivete with effortless sensuality , like an updated version of Marilyn Monroe ) is undeniably one of the film's trump cards and , on account of this , I might even have to rent the two notorious vehicles her actor / director husband concocted for her in the early 1980s . Andrews does well enough by her relatively colorless role ( which , naturally , sees her as a singing star ) . Moore's part had originally been accepted by George Segal , but he left the project for some reason ; later , it was offered to Edwards ' former muse Peter Sellers who turned it down but , reportedly , did feature in a cameo ? which scene , however , didn't make the final cut ! Moore , whose career up to this point had been sporadic ( with BEDAZZLED [ 1967 ] , which I've just watched , as his only notable starring vehicle ) suddenly found himself much in demand after his scene-stealing cameo in FOUL PLAY ( 1978 ) . This would eventually lead to his most famous role , ARTHUR ( 1981 ; for which he received an Oscar nomination and one he reprised for a less successful sequel 7 years later ) , another collaboration with Edwards ? MICKEY + MAUDE ( 1984 ) ? and the remake of Preston Sturges ' classic UNFAITHFULLY YOURS ( 1984 ) . Despite the ample nudity ( removed or concealed for network showings of the film ) allowed by the current permissiveness in censorship ? and which is even referenced in the very final scene ? 10 remains an old-fashioned entertainment at heart : not only is Moore's character a musician ( as the star was in real life , after all ) who has a ( thankfully non-stereotyped ) gay songwriting partner in veteran Robert Webber ? but this is also evident in the conservative i . e . tasteful choice of exponents for the soundtrack ( original music and songs by Edwards stalwart Henry Mancini , who gave the film its only Oscar nods , and such standard classical pieces as Ravel's " Bolero " ) . Commendably , the writer-director also gives space here to the minor characters ? notably when the scene shifts to Mexico , such as the sympathetic bartender played by Brian Dennehy and the woman with whom Moore has a clumsy fling ( Dee Wallace ) . With this in mind , the film's single greatest laugh-out-loud moment comes fairly early on in the picture and has to do with the senile servant of the priest who celebrated Derek's marriage to future FLASH GORDON , Sam J . Jones ( when he's visited by Moore in an attempt to learn more about her ) .
PUNCH DRUNKS ( Lou Breslow , 1934 )	Pretty much on the same level of WOMAN HATERS ( 1934 ) , though without the rhyming dialogue ; ironically , the style of comedy seen here seems like a dry run for later Abbott & Costello efforts ( with the comical prizefighting bout recalling that duo’s 1951 meeting with The Invisible Man ) ! Again , The Stooges consider female companionship as irresistible but essentially intrusive ; Moe slaps his buddies around so often that one wonders whether anyone got hurt during the making of these films ! An interesting twist here is that Curly’s combative skill is triggered by the playing of " Pop Goes The Weasel " ; predictably , Larry’s playing of the song on his violin is made impossible during the decisive fight when Curly falls on top of him from the ring – thus causing Larry to run out of the arena to search for possible replacements ( first coming up with a radio and then a truck fitted with a loudspeaker , which he drives through the walls of the building ) !
CALLING DR . DEATH ( Reginald LeBorg , 1943 )	I hadn't intended to purchase this Set - and only did so after constant prodding by Joe Karlosi ; in essence , these films are no worse than the lower-profile sequels of the Universal monster pictures , such as the follow-ups to THE MUMMY ( 1932 ) and THE INVISIBLE MAN ( 1933 ) . This was the first of six " Inner Sanctum " mysteries all starring Lon Chaney Jr . ( with his frequent voice-over linking them rather naively with the concurrent noir subgenre ) and featuring portentous - and hilarious - intros by a disembodied head in a crystal ball ! It's not too bad in itself , with the plot overly familiar but fairly involving - Chaney's mind goes blank one weekend and when he comes to , discovers his unloving wife has been murdered ! Of course , he's the chief suspect of dogged detective J . Carroll Naish ( the best thing about the entire film ) though it's the woman's lover , named Robert Duval ( ! ) , who's actually accused - and convicted - of the crime . The characters are all relatively engaging ( Chaney is a celebrated neurologist with beautiful Patricia Morison as his devoted assistant ) and the plot development plausible enough , making for an entertaining and fast-paced 63 minutes . The final revelation , then , is at once surprising and satisfying .
King Richard And The Crusaders ( David Butler , 1954 )	Based on Sir Walter Scott's " The Talisman " ( which I own in a comic-strip version ! ) , this was made in the wake of IVANHOE ( 1952 ) ? adapted from another classic by the same author ; however , given that that film was made by journeyman Richard Thorpe ( followed , with leading man Robert Taylor in tow , by two other popular MGM adventures ? KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE [ 1953 ] and QUENTIN DURWARD [ 1955 ] ) , Warners somewhat incongruously assigned musical comedy expert Butler to this one ! While clearly inferior to those three films , KING RICHARD AND THE CRUSADERS isn't nearly as bad as its reputation would suggest ( though it must be said that most spectacles from this era , disregarded by the majority of critics when new , stand up surprisingly well today as entertainment ! ) . Even so , there's some definite campiness to the film ? notably when Rex Harrison as Saladin lullabies George Sanders , playing the wounded King Richard ( the score by reliable Max Steiner being noteworthy apart from this ) ? and , in any case , the whole emerges to be even more fanciful than Cecil B . De Mille's THE CRUSADES ( 1935 ; which preceded this viewing ) , what with the Muslim leader insinuating himself into the enemy camp , providing a cure for the King , and even aiding him in routing the traitors ( genre staple Robert Douglas and Michael Pate ) among his own ranks ! ! One similarity to the earlier epic is the fact that Saladin falls for a Christian woman ? though , in this case , it's Richard's cousin ( Virginia Mayo ) as opposed to his wife ( who gets very limited screen time here ) ? but ultimately relinquishes the heroine to her lover ( a fiery Scots knight played by a young , blonde yet surprisingly effective Laurence Harvey ) . Incidentally , Sanders ? while older than Henry Wilcoxon's incarnation of Richard in THE CRUSADES ? is no less gruff and headstrong and , in fact , spends more time fighting Harvey ( including a jousting duel ) than Harrison ! !
THE REPENTER ( Pasquale Squitieri , 1985 )	Serious-minded ( i . e . not low-brow ) yet obscure Mafia movie inspired by real events ; I happened upon its Italian DVD at one of my local rental outlets . As expected , it's highlighted by extensive ( and reasonably well-staged ) shoot-outs ' interrupted ' by ( not exactly gripping ) police detection and ( all-too-familiar ) domestic scenes . The film does have has the benefit of a good cast ? led by Franco Nero as the Magistrate standing in for the real-life Giovanni Falcone ( he had tackled a similar role in Damiano Damiani's CONFESSIONS OF A POLICE CAPTAIN [ 1971 ] : here he's generally restrained apart from a dream sequence in which he's ambushed by gangsters ) and Tony Musante as " Il Pentito " of the original title ( an option suggested to him by Nero in order to put a stop to the ongoing gang war between two gangland factions : old-style / honorable and new / vicious ) . The latter are typified by Erik Estrada who , at one point , is even sprung from jail but , at the end , is allowed to go free . Max von Sydow is both miscast and underused as the New York-based banker whose financial debacle blows the cover on the whole underworld operation , while the sensual Rita Rusic , future wife of tycoon Vittorio Cecchi Gori , plays his and Musante's contemporaneous lover . Ex-Bond Girl Claudine Auger is also briefly on hand as Musante's Sicilian wife , Marino Mase ' appears as Nero's carabiniere sidekick , whereas Venantino Venantini turns up as one of the Mafia family heads . The concluding moments are fairly interesting : Nero realizes that Musante had merely used him to get lawful revenge on his opponents ? with a nice final shot which has a series of doors closing in front of our hero , symbolically depicting him shut inside a prison of his own making !
AS YOUNG AS YOU FEEL ( Harmon Jones , 1951 )	Though released on DVD as part of Fox's " Marilyn Monroe Collection " , her role ? playing the spirited , though obviously dumb , secretary at a printing factory headed by Albert Dekker ? is actually very brief . The film is an amusing , Capraesque comedy about 65 year-old printer Monty Woolley who refuses to accept the age imposition which sends him into retirement . The plot involves him impersonating the President of the corporation which owns the factory , paying them an unexpected visit and making a speech in which he retracts the current policy ? thus enabling Woolley the printer to get back his job ! Complications arise when David Wayne ( fiancé of Woolley's niece Jean Peters ) , who also works at the factory , recognizes him ? but also with the attentions given Woolley by Dekker's neglected wife Constance Bennett . The film features a solid supporting cast which includes Allyn Joslyn ( as Woolley's son ) , Thelma Ritter ( as his wife , who's proud of her Brooklyn origins ) , Clinton Sundberg ( as Wayne's ambitious colleague at the plant who could blow Woolley's cover at any moment ) , Minor Watson ( as the real President of the conglomerate ) and a young Russ Tamblyn ( playing Dekker and Bennett's confused son ) . It's a pleasant enough diversion ? adapted by Lamar Trotti from a Paddy Chayefsky ( ! ) story ? given Fox's typically polished ( if fluffy ) treatment .
BLACK ORPHEUS ( Marcel Camus , 1959 )	I had first watched this subtitled in French following my second viewing of Jean Cocteau's seminal masterwork ORPHEUS ( 1950 ) ; both these factors contributed to my being let down by the film , so I was anxious to give it a second - and proper - viewing . Still , I might go so far as to say that I liked it even less this time around : while the Rio Carnival certainly offers the tragic love story of Orpheus and Eurydice a vivid and uniquely offbeat - if relentlessly noisy - backdrop , there's simply too much local color here ( the non-stop dancing is particularly grating ) proceeding to rather overwhelm the plot itself . . . which is what drew me to it in the first place ! In fact , the figure of Death which pursues Eurydice doesn't turn up until 40 minutes into the film ; its intermittent appearances create some genuine tension here , particularly the superbly-lit scene by the trains where Death finally catches up with its prey - through the unwitting aid of Orpheus himself ! The latter stages see Orpehus searching for his beloved in the ' netherworld ' - stumbling , at long last , on a ( rather embarrassing ) séance where she speaks to him through an old woman in a trance but , as legend has it , he's not content with just hearing her voice and so ends up losing her forever . The final scene , too , is great : Orpheus has reclaimed Eurydice's body , but his going back to ' reality ' and the general hubbub of the Carnival ( which , given the debris , the flames and the highstrung appearance of Orpheus's former girl , seems to have turned violent in the couple's absence ) results in his own unfortunate death ; all is not lost , however , as the kids who hang around him throughout the film seem to have finally acquired his unique ' gift ' of making the sun rise with the power of guitar playing ! While undeniably interesting in itself and occasionally powerful , BLACK ORPHEUS is no match for the intellectual but totally fascinating poetic touch rendered the tale in Cocteau's definitive version ( with which I hope to re-acquaint myself in the near future via the British Film Institute's R2 SE DVD that I purchased recently ) . P . S . It seems incredible to me that BLACK ORPHEUS not only won the Best Foreign-Language Film Oscar but the Palme D'Or award at the Cannes Film Festival - where it was competing against such superior films as Luis Bunuel's NAZARIN , Alain Resnais ' Hiroshima MON AMOUR and Francois Truffaut's THE 400 BLOWS ! For the record , the jury members for that particular year included directors Michael Cacoyannis and Julien Duvivier , producer Carlo Ponti and Hollywood star Gene Kelly ! !
DONOVAN'S REEF ( John Ford , 1963 )	Brawling , leisurely-paced comedy with an island setting : typical of director Ford in its plethora of colorful characters and occasional sentimentality , but is actually a heavy-handed attempt at the Howard Hawks style ( as displayed most recently in another John Wayne vehicle , HATARI ! [ 1962 ] - which I've just learned , via the McLINTOCK ! [ 1963 ] Audio Commentary , was critic Leonard Maltin's favorite film growing up ! ) ; this is most evident in the love-hate relationship between the Wayne and Elizabeth Allen characters . Despite a stalwart cast , all performers are basically operating below-par ( Lee Marvin's co-star credit isn't really justified , Dorothy Lamour's role is insignificant , while Jack Warden is not only too young to play Allen's father but too ' modern ' to fit in this company ! ) . All in all , it's a harmless but disappointing swansong for one of cinema's most famous and durable director-actor teams ; pity they didn't part company with the elegiac THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE ( 1962 ) - also featuring Marvin - which preceded it !
Carry On Laughing : The Case Of The Coughing Parrot ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	Third and last of the ' Lord Peter Flimsy ' detective spoof entries in the " Carry On " TV series : this has an archaeology backdrop involving the theft of jewels belonging to the mummy of the Pharaoh Ram-it-up-em ( the episode's single best joke , which is then repeated incessantly throughout ) . Making an ideal team are Jack Douglas as Flimsy and Kenneth Connor as his servant / sidekick Punter , while David Lodge is the flustered Inspector on the case ; Joan Sims has fun with her role of the archaeologist and Peter Butterworth has a bit as an employer of the Post Office detailed with the " Lost & Found " department . The episode has a very convoluted plot in which it manages to balance interior and exterior scenes ( with the latter being perennially shrouded in thick fog ) ; the villainess of the piece turns out to be Sims ' young assistant under whose guise an aristocratic lady thief hides . By the way , the title is a reference to that particular bird's reaction to poison ? as explained by Connor at the climax ? after which he's pecked by the bird and , while believing himself doomed , immediately starts to cough !
Carry On Laughing : The Prisoner Of Spenda ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	The raunchy " Carry On " humor eventually found its way to the small-screen in the form of half-hour TV shows - which , perhaps , served their specialized comedy style better since no padding was necessary to stretch the generally thin plot lines to feature-length and would , therefore , not overstay its welcome . Even so , their decision to adapt the swashbuckling favorite " The Prisoner Of Zenda " as part of this series rather than for the big screen was a mistake , not only because the spectacle ( of which there is very little given the limited , and mostly interior , sets ) would be lost on TV but the convoluted narrative could never be satisfactorily fitted into a mere 25 minutes ( which allows for only the bare outline of Anthony Hope's classic adventure to be utilized ) - but , then , one must remember that literature's definitive tale of impersonation had already been parodied by Blake Edwards in THE GREAT RACE ( 1965 ) ! Still , it's a pleasant enough trifle that clearly benefits from the presence of some of the " Carry On " notables - namely Sid James , Barbara Windsor , Joan Sims and Peter Butterworth .
Carry On Laughing : Under The Round Table ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	There's a definite sense of deja'-vu to this Arthurian tale with Kenneth Connor ( Arthur ) , Jack Douglas ( Sir Gay ) , Joan Sims ( Guinevere ) , Peter Butterworth ( Merlin ) and Bernard Bresslaw ( the intrepid yet bumbling knight who ends up getting it on with the Queen ) ; Victor Maddern plays the alcoholic knight Sir Osis Of The Liver ! It's pleasant enough in itself but , as I said , not particularly inventive ; of course , there's a lusty wench on hand to tempt the chaste Bresslaw ? who's also supposed to defend the kingdom from a dragon hiding in a cave ? but , needless to say , things do not go as planned for anybody !
WOMAN HATERS ( Archie Gottler , 1934 )	I’m virtually a beginner when it comes to The Three Stooges : I’d seen a few of their films – and episodes from the animated series – as a kid ( this short being one of them , incidentally ) but not enough to rank them judiciously in the pantheon of classic comedy . Anyway , this has been advertised as " a musical novelty " – influenced by the work of Ernst Lubitsch , no doubt – with all dialogue written in verse ! In essence , it lies somewhere between Laurel & Hardy ( with the train setting recalling BERTH MARKS [ 1929 ] in particular ) and The Marx Bros . – but emerging , in the long run , as less sympathetic than either . The gang joins the titular club but Larry , practically blackmailed into marriage , attempts to keep his status from pals Moe and Curley – but can’t , because his spouse turns out to be a flirt who has her eyes on them as well ! Walter Brennan appears briefly as the train conductor . I have to say that the slap-happy antics of the comic trio gets tiresome after a while . To be honest , I wonder how I’ll be able to stick the relentless display of such childish behavior through 19 Stooges shorts I’ve got scheduled ( given that I’ve just acquired a copy of the official Columbia 2-Disc collection ) . . .
HOUSE OF THE DAMNED ( Maury Dexter , 1963 )	An obscure and rather uneventful but nevertheless atmospheric and effective little chiller which presents us with a new twist on " the old dark house " theme which may ultimately disappoint some viewers . I won't divulge it here for those who may feel inclined to check this one out : I'll just say that it combines elements from two well-known Tod Browning movies - FREAKS ( 1932 ) and MARK OF THE VAMPIRE ( 1935 ) - and leave it at that ! The plot deals with an architect and his wife having to spend the night in the infamous ( and supposedly uninhabited ) Rochester castle , who are later joined by the former's boss and his sassy girlfriend . However , before long , things start to go bump in the night : a bunch of keys mysteriously disappear and reappear with a couple of them missing , a few doors are inexplicably forbidden to the house dwellers , the girlfriend disappears after a quarrel with her intended , etc . It all seems to point in the direction of the crazed proprietress of the mansion who is currently spending her days in a mental institution but , eventually , we discover that there are even stranger forces at work here . . . As I said before , the moody lighting and occasional ' scary ' set-pieces are the whole show in this one but , despite the lack of star names , the foursome acquit themselves quite adequately under the circumstances ; in the latter stages of the film , Richard " Jaws " Kiel also makes an appearance as an unexpected ' guest ' of the Rochester mansion . The low-priced Fox DVD is accompanied by a theatrical trailer which should not be viewed before the main feature as it virtually shows snippets from all the film's best sequences ; interestingly , the much brighter trailer enabled me to make out some details which had eluded me during the film itself !
NAZI LOVE CAMP 27 ( Mario Caiano , 1977 )	This is one of the more infamous of the countless Nazisploitation Italian films produced in the wake of Luchino Visconti's THE DAMNED ( 1969 ) ; actually , it's the only one I've watched thus far - though earlier this year I did catch up with Liliana Cavani's THE NIGHT PORTER ( 1974 ) but , like the Visconti film , that one is best termed as Art-house . Still , for such a single-mindedly commercial effort , I was surprised by how effective this film was : after all , it was made by all-rounded professionals who had been in the business for some time - director Caiano ( best-known , perhaps , for the Barbara Steele Gothic horror NIGHTMARE CASTLE aka THE FACELESS MONSTER [ 1965 ] ) and screenwriter Gianfranco Clerici and composer Francesco De Masi ( both Lucio Fulci collaborators ) . The lead role here is played by Sirpa Lane , with whom I was only familiar from Walerian Borowczyk's legendary THE BEAST ( 1975 ) : as much as I love that film , I had always felt that her contribution was upstaged not just by the horny and furry titular creature but by the nominal lead of THE BEAST , Lisbeth Hummel . Therefore , I had no idea that she could actually act and , indeed , the whole film is anchored by her good central performance ; discovered by Roger Vadim , she subsequently worked with a few other noted " Euro-Cult " film-makers - but eventually retired ( after making only 10 films ) and , sadly , died of AIDS at the young age of 44 ! The plot sees Jewess Lane being imprisoned in a concentration camp ( thus adding the ' Women-In-Prison ' subgenre to the already heady mix for good measure - in fact , the film reminded me a lot of Jess Franco's contemporaneous ILSA , THE WICKED WARDEN [ 1977 ] ) , where she's immediately raped and later selected by a lesbian warden ( apparently a given in WIP films ) to serve as a prostitute for the gratification of German soldiers on leave . About to be flogged for rejecting the advances of the warden , she attracts the attention of the Camp Commandant and eventually starts a sado-masochistic relationship with him ( he frequently asks her to whip him , likes to exchange clothes with her and even wants Lane to pleasure his faithful alsation Axel - but the latter doesn't seem too keen on the idea and promptly attacks her ) ! ! The finale sees the Jewish girl elevated to the position of a madam in a Nazi whorehouse ; the man she was in love with at the beginning of the film suddenly turns up at the establishment as a war hero - but it all ends in tragedy ( though not before Lane , her Semitic origins exposed , jokes about Hitler's unemployed ' member ' ! ) . I have to say , though , that the gimmick adopted throughout of intercutting black-and-white stock footage with the main action was rather pointless because , although the events are clearly set in 1942 , we are never told where all this is supposed to be happening so that said footage could be put into perspective ! I watched the film ( which is still unavailable anywhere on DVD ) via a DVD-R culled from an English-dubbed VHS edition ; I don't know whether it's uncut as the editing seemed quite choppy at times - but the amount of violence and nudity on display was certainly profuse ( the former pretty fake but the latter rather graphic , occasionally even stepping into hardcore-porn territory ) . . .
THE SIN OF HAROLD DIDDLEBOCK ( Preston Sturges , 1947 )	An interesting if ultimately unsuccessful combination of two clashing comedy styles ( overseen by humorless mogul Howard Hughes no less ) , this film turned out to be Harold Lloyd's swan-song - and , as such , it ended on a somewhat positive note ( even though the film was made during Sturges ' period of decline ) . It opens with a reprise of the climactic football game from one of Lloyd's greatest successes , THE FRESHMAN ( 1925 ) , eventually bringing that same character ( albeit renamed ! ) up to date . Still , in the end , the film is more Sturges than Lloyd : even if the star plays one of his trademark roles of a patsy ( though not without the occasional display of ingenuity ) , there is little of the star's characteristic slapstick here . Instead , the comedy is in Sturges ' typical frantic ( and , mainly , dialogue-driven ) style - with which Lloyd isn't entirely comfortable ; the film also features Sturges ' stock company of character players in full swing . That said , it's climaxed by yet another of the star comedian's thrilling set-pieces which finds him overhanging from a building-ledge - hampered this time around by a myopic Jimmy Conlin and an understandably disgruntled circus lion ! While a disappointing whole ( it was re-issued in 1950 in a shortened version renamed MAD Wednesday ) , the film does contain a number of undeniable gems : his romantic attachment to every female member of one particular family ( all of whom happen to work for the same firm over a 20-year period ) ; his first encounter with Conlin , with the two of them exchanging wise sayings ( the optimistic Lloyd had kept a handful nailed to the wall behind him at his former workplace ) in order to explain their current dejected state-of-mind ; and , best of all , the unforgettable scene in which Lloyd takes his first alcoholic beverage ( an impromptu concoction by bartender Edgar Kennedy and which he names " The Diddlebock " ) that invariably provokes an unexpected yet hilarious reaction .
FRANKIE AND JOHNNY ( Frederick De Cordova , 1966 )	This is an oddity in Elvis’ filmography : a quaint but pleasing musical comedy based on the popular song which had already inspired a similarly-titled film from 1936 starring Helen Morgan – apart from being featured in the Mae West vehicle SHE DONE HIM WRONG ( 1933 ) and , again , as recently as Robert Altman’s A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION ( 2006 ) . The star isn’t entirely comfortable amid the 1890s riverboat setting , what with a few of his musical performances ( and especially his hairdo ) coming off as inextricably modern . Still , the plot – thin as it is – emerges to be quite engaging ( what with its backdrop of fortune-telling , gambling parlors , variety acts and costume parties and involving mistaken identities , misunderstandings , an attempted murder and a bar-room brawl ) ! The cast presents three notable female roles : Donna Douglas ( as Frankie ) , Nancy Kovack as Elvis’ red-headed lucky charm and the flame of his jealous boss , and Sue Ane Langdon as a ditzy " blonde " – who , along with Presley’s long-suffering sidekick Harry Morgan , turns out to be the most likable character as well as the purveyor of the film’s comic relief . Elvis’ best ‘new’ number is " Hard Luck " ; apart from the title tune , he also gets to sing the standard " When The Saints Go Marching In " ( while dressed in full military regalia ) ! The film is short enough at 87 mins . not to overstay its welcome , but the rather low-key presentation also prevents it from being anything more than unassuming entertainment . I wouldn’t classify it among the top-flight Presley vehicles , therefore , but it’s certainly superior to some of the bigger-budgeted ( yet simple-minded ) fluff he made over at MGM – this being a production from independent producer Edward Small released through United Artists .
Carry On Laughing : The Baron Outlook ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	The medieval setting in this one suffers due to the obvious low budget ( with the action mostly confined indoors ) . It's saved , however , by a cast comprised of several old reliables : Sidney James as a lazy Baron ; Joan Sims as his nagging wife ; Kenneth Connor as a knight well past his prime ; Peter Butterworth as a lecherous priest ; Barbara Windsor , then , tries to pass off as a knight during an attack ( the minimal action footage has been lifted outright from Laurence Olivier's HENRY V [ 1944 ] ! ) , is captured and sent off to James as his prisoner . David Lodge is a castle inspector whom the Baron bribes to overlook the place's dilapidated state ; he breaks his leg and has to stay on . The episode is a bit thin on plot but , as I said , eminently watchable just the same .
Carry On Laughing : Lamp-posts Of The Empire ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	This above-average episode , which utilizes a flashback structure , has a nice Victorian feeling ? though the majority of the action reverts to a studio-bound African setting . It's a parody of the celebrated Stanley and Livingstone adventure story ? with Kenneth Connor and Bernard Bresslaw , respectively , in those roles ( even if the latter is actually called Pavingstone ; there's a running-gag tied up to the equally famous line " Dr . Livingstone , I presume ? " ) . Peter Butterworth is the ancient leader of the geographical society ( of whom Barbara Windsor is the only female member ) , Jack Douglas is a guide nicknamed " Elephant Dick " ( his trademark twitching eventually causes him to literally lose the expedition's bearing ! ) and Oscar James appears as the native witch doctor ( whose sorcery results in various gorilla mutations , which has the unfortunate effect of arousing the real jungle apes ! ) .
The Four Skulls Of Jonathan Drake ( 1959 )	I was expecting to give THE FOUR SKULLS OF JONATHAN DRAKE ( 1959 ) a rating but I had to reduce it by a notch because the performances of the two younger leads were pretty lifeless in my opinion : the girl did nothing but lounge around in furs all through the picture , even as her father was having his spells and assassination attempts and the detective was rather ineffectual , particularly in his first meeting with the assassin . But then , in the climax , after he is shown in one shot to be way behind Henry Daniell , in the next one he's on the roof of a cabin ready to jump on Daniell ! That was rather silly , in my opinion , which is a pity because , on the whole , I found it to be quite good and enjoyable ; the head-shrinking scenes were particularly effective .
IT HAPPENED AT THE WORLD’S FAIR ( Norman Taurog , 1963 )	This is another enjoyable Elvis vehicle : it’s early yet , but I’m having a better time with these films than I had anticipated ! Once again , the songs prove to be quite inconsequential – the only two I liked here were " One Broken Heart For Sale " and the would-be macabre children’s ditty " Cotton Candy Land " – and the leading lady is the rather unsympathetic and over-coiffeured Joan O’Brien . But , thankfully , Gary Lockwood is on hand to offer solid support as Elvis’ sidekick who has a gambling addiction ; it’s ironic that the film ends with Elvis signing up for a NASA space program when Lockwood himself would go on to obtain screen immortality with Stanley Kubrick’s 2001 : A SPACE ODYSSEY ( 1968 ) ! The subplot involving the abandoned Asian child often threatens to descend into bathos but she wins over the audience with her cute and amusing antics to get sick in order to bring Elvis and nurse O’Brien together again after a quarrel . Also notable is the scene featuring a very young Kurt Russell ( who would eventually portray Presley in a 1979 TV biopic directed by , of all people , John Carpenter ! ) which involves yet another scam by which Elvis is able to ensnare O’Brien into falling for him . Unfortunately , at a running time of 105 minutes , the film does slightly outstay its welcome and some of the other subplots – those involving the child welfare board’s attempts to take the kid out of the jobless Elvis’ custody ( leading to a chase inside the grounds of the Seattle Fair ) and Lockwood falling in with crooks ( climaxing in an admittedly energetic fistfight in a hangar ) – could have been jettisoned without sacrificing the film’s entertainment value .
TARGET EARTH ( Sherman A . Rose , 1954 )	Since it was co-written by the man behind ROBOT MONSTER ( 1953 ) , I really wasn't expecting anything from this one ( whose SE DVD I bought dirt-cheap from VCI outright ) . However , the film proved worthy of some attention ? though failing to keep up the initial momentum , despite a brief 75-minute duration . The plot starts off with a typical ' Last Man On Earth ' scenario ( albeit restricted in this case to just one big American city , and the reason it's deserted is due to evacuation rather than decimation ) . Eventually , a handful of people ( including a constantly squabbling couple ) band together in a hotel ; we gradually learn their individual reasons for being left behind ? which would actually be replicated in the much later THE QUIET EARTH ( 1985 ) ? and , amidst fighting one another ( especially the bossiness of an armed criminal on the run ) , they heroically withstand the alien invasion ( consisting of a single solitary robot ! ) which is threatening the planet . Ultimately , the military springs into action ? scientist Whit Bissell having finally hit upon a particular sound wave which can ' kill ' the clunky automaton ( s ) , also able to shoot a deadly ray a ' la Klaatu from THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL ( 1951 ) ? and rescues those still standing ( obviously the hero and heroine ) . The male lead is once again played by Richard Denning , whom I had just watched in THE BLACK SCORPION ( 1957 ) : amusingly , as in that film , for all his ruggedness he's made up to be something of a dope as well , since Denning cluelessly purports to defend himself with a mere firearm ( at the end , when he's told the alien was actually a robot , his character displays genuine amazement ? duh ! ) . In the end , though no classic , the film is extremely typical of its time and reasonably entertaining while it's on ( with , as I said , the best moments coming at the very beginning via the eerie depiction of deserted city streets ) . The extras are perhaps over-generous for such minor genre fare : that said , I haven't listened to its late producer Herman Cohen's Audio Commentary ? while I was already familiar with the tribute featurette to him from its inclusion on VCI's own edition of HORRORS OF THE BLACK MUSEUM ( 1959 ) .
PUMPKINHEAD ( Stan Winston , 1988 )	This is another popular horror outing of the 1980s ; it's not too bad , and actually manages a reasonable atmosphere throughout . Even so , the design of the titular creature is rather disappointing ? given that it's just another ALIEN ( 1979 ) clone ? but admittedly its rampage is creepily effective . Lance Henriksen stars as a man whose son is killed in a motoring accident and , having witnessed an attack by Pumpkinhead as a child ? this particular boogeyman is usually conjured up for purposes of revenge ? he now makes it go after the group of teens ( ex-Superman Jeff East among them ) involved in the boy's death . Interestingly , Henriksen is able to ' feel ' the creature's wrath ( and , eventually , has second thoughts about the request he made to the witch who revived it ) ; however , the final suggestion that it may have been him all along is rather baffling ? since , as I said , Henriksen winds up confronting the monster himself ! Director Winston is best-known as a special effects wizard , though the film isn't particularly gory . As is the norm for such " boogeyman " fare , it was later followed by a host of obscure sequels .
THE GESTAPO'S LAST ORGY ( Cesare Canevari , 1977 )	This is the fifth Nazisploitation film that I've watched after the arty THE DAMNED ( 1969 ) and THE NIGHT PORTER ( 1974 ) , and the more exploitative NAZI LOVE CAMP 27 ( 1977 ) and THE RED NIGHTS OF THE GESTAPO ( 1977 ) ; it's reputed as the most infamous of the lot , but I was disappointed to discover that the version I ended up with was shorn of about 10 minutes of " sick footage " ( which , reportedly , includes a woman being burned alive and a cannibalistic sequence where the prisoners serve as dinner for the Nazis ) ! That said , what's left in would still alarm and profoundly disturb most conservative viewers . The film opens with an audacious voice-over of a Nazi war-crime trial as a man ( later revealed to have been the Commandant of a concentration camp-cum-makeshift brothel for German soldiers returning from the front ! ) is making his way by car to a rendezvous with his lover ( a Jewish girl he frequently victimized during the war ) ; the meeting place , in fact , is the ruins of the camp itself ? thus resembling most closely the central relationship within THE NIGHT PORTER . During the course of the film , we're treated to several instances of inventively depraved physical torture ? most memorably , one where the heroine , hanging upside down , is hovered above a slew of hungry rodents and another in which a character is made to slide into a deadly lime pit . Characterization is particularly of interest here ( though this element was even more successful in the afore-mentioned NAZI LOVE CAMP 27 ) : the protagonist faces the myriad beatings and constant degradation with utmost stoicism ? believing herself responsible for her family's capture , she has no desire to live ( she's played by Daniela Poggi ? who , years later , would become the conductor of a long-running TV show about the search for real-life missing persons and now , obviously , prefers to totally exclude the picture from her curriculum ! ) ; the Commandant is a closet masochist who's frequently willingly dominated by his female ( if masculine-looking ) warden ; the latter , then , is a standard figure in this type of film ? though she's curiously absent for much of the mid-section ( returning , in fact , merely for her hasty comeuppance ) . Events constantly switch from the present , as the two lovers wander about the place and then give in to their passion for one another , to the past ( including the girl's liberating bed-romp with the sympathetic camp doctor , her eventual ascension to position of the Commandant's favorite ? even turning down a plea of help from her former prison companion ? and culminating in the ' loss ' of her child because it has no place in the Nazi-ruled ' perfect ' world of the future ) ; incidentally , the abrupt downbeat ending is predictable virtually from the get-go . Despite featuring a haunting theme , augmented by half-spoken German lyrics , I reiterate that the end product ( pompously renamed CALIGULA REINCARNATED AS Hitler in some quarters ! ) is inferior to NAZI LOVE CAMP 27 ? or , for that matter , the director's other work that I've come across . Incidentally , I'll be checking out presently another notorious example of the Nazisploitation genre i . e . Tinto Brass ' SALON KITTY ( 1976 ) ?
Hoffman ( Alvin Rakoff , 1970 )	This is at once one of Peter Sellers ' least-known and more interesting vehicles ; the film is virtually a two-hander ? with Sinead Cusack ( daughter of actor Cyril and later Mrs . Jeremy Irons ) as the young girl blackmailed by a middle-aged colleague ( Sellers ) into becoming his lover , because he knows of her boyfriend's involvement in a robbery . While the film is considered a comedy , it doesn't sound like it from that synopsis ; it's really a character-driven piece on a serious theme ? mid-life crisis ? which has been treated several times over the years , though rarely in such perceptively intimate detail ( for which it was deemed tasteless at the time ) . The humorous element ( if one can call it that ) springs from the fact that Sellers ' character ? who had been fantasizing about Cusack for months ? doesn't have the courage to do anything with her once they're together ! Incidentally , Hoffman's innately cruel nature was so similar to the real Peter Sellers that one might be inclined to think that his dialogue was improvised ? but this wasn't the case ! With this in mind , the film can be seen as talky ( though Ernest Gebler's script , adapted from his own novel , does contain a smattering of good lines ) , low-key and claustrophobic ( the narrative strays only occasionally from Sellers ' flat , and the two almost never interact with other people ) ? not to mention repetitive and overstretched at 113 minutes ! One particular sequence included an ambitious shot lasting for some 18 minutes , which certainly belied the rumors that Sellers had suffered brain damage during that infamous incident from the early 1960s in which he suffered no less than seven heart attacks in one day . The film's happy-ending-of-sorts , then , is highly improbable ? but I guess it works well enough in this context ( given that Cusack's boyfriend is depicted as a one-dimensional character and , therefore , no match for the intellectual Sellers ) . Gerry Turpin's cinematography of the bleak London settings is one of the film's main assets , while the tone of romantic melancholy ? inherent in Ron Grainer's score and his Don Black-penned theme song , " If There Ever Is A Next Time " ( sung by Matt Monro ) ? infuses the whole film and even serves as exposition for the main narrative during its deliberately vague early stages . By the way , director Rakoff had already handled the same material as a TV production starring Donald Pleasance ; at his own admission , the film version was too slow ? because the pace seemed to be dictated by the lead actor ? and professed to having misgivings also about the choice of music . As for Sellers himself , he was so disappointed with the final result that the star offered to buy back the negative from the producer and shoot it again from scratch ( the film , in fact , was such a resounding flop that it wasn't shown in New York until 1982 ) !
THE HORROR OF FRANKENSTEIN ( Jimmy Sangster , 1970 )	This was top Hammer screenwriter Jimmy Sangster's first directorial effort for the company ( incidentally , I watched the other two - LUST FOR A VAMPIRE [ 1971 ] and FEAR IN THE NIGHT [ 1972 ] - in quick succession ) . I hadn't picked this up on DVD earlier because of its much-maligned reputation : however , I was extremely surprised to find it quite effective ! Given that it's basically a remake of THE CURSE OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1957 ) , Sangster took a radically different approach - treating the events as black comedy ; the resulting film is very funny indeed at times ( though it almost feels like " Carry On Frankenstein " : witness the disembodied hand coming to life to give the two-finger gesture and Ralph Bates ' comments at Kate O'Mara's cleavage ! ) . The film features an abrupt , doubly ironic ending - while , as opposed to STRAIGHT ON TILL MORNING ( 1972 ) , there's plenty of gore here but no nudity . Still , despite being made on the cheap , it all looks pretty decent ( a virtue common to most Hammer product , in fact ) . Bates ( who showed real promise but , essentially , came to Hammer too late ) and Dennis Price ( as a cheerful body snatcher who likes to have his pregnant wife do the dirty work for him ! ) are very good ; from the rest of the cast - which includes Jon Finch as a dogged police lieutenant who happens to be a former colleague of Frankenstein's - O'Mara as Bates ' sexy but conniving housekeeper / lover comes off best ( though Veronica Carlson , who's somewhat underused here , also proves undeniable eye-candy ) . There are faults , however : Bates's scientist is , ultimately , too glum in comparison to Cushing's animated characterization ; the monster itself is an unfortunate creation ( pun intended ) - Dave Prowse's physique is certainly ideal for the role ( in fact , he returned for FRANKENSTEIN AND THE MONSTER FROM HELL [ 1974 ] and proved far more successful at it ) but , as depicted here , it comes across as a mere killing machine , showing no emotion or curiosity at its surroundings ( such as when the monster kills the O'Mara character or when it ventures outside into the countryside ) . Essentially , then , the film emerges as an interesting but not entirely successful reinvention of the Frankenstein saga and , actually , a curious attempt on Hammer's part at this particular stage - given that it followed closely on the heels of one of their finest ( and bleakest ) efforts ! That said , having now watched Hammer's entire Frankenstein series , I can safely say that it's superior overall to their Dracula films . The extras include a 14-minute career overview by Hammer starlet / beauty Carlson - she feels lucky and privileged to have worked three times for the studio and in the company of such talented people as Freddie Francis , Christopher Lee , Terence Fisher , Peter Cushing , Jimmy Sangster and Ralph Bates . Sangster describes in the Audio Commentary how , when he started as a screenwriter , he was careful not to overstep the limitations set by the budget - which he learned from having been a Production Manager for Hammer for the previous several years ; as a director , then , he often consulted with his editor to determine whether the latter got all the necessary coverage for any particular scene . He also discusses the rest of his career , going into some detail on the making of such films as TASTE OF FEAR ( 1961 ) and THE ANNIVERSARY ( 1968 ) , and seems baffled - but , at the same time , amused - by the critical about-turn Hammer's output has enjoyed in recent years . With respect to THE HORROR OF FRANKENSTEIN itself , he admits that he was initially averse to the idea of Ralph Bates as Baron Frankenstein - but , eventually , the two became very good friends and , in fact , Bates appeared in all three films Sangster directed ! By the way , Travis Crawford's interesting liner notes compare the film's self-mocking attitude to the even more radical ' revisionist ' approach to the Mary Shelley tale seen in FLESH FOR FRANKENSTEIN ( 1973 ) .
FOLLOW A STAR ( Robert Asher , 1959 )	Being one of the infrequent Norman Wisdom vehicles covered in " Leonard Maltin's Movie & Video Guide " - which he rates a lowly - I was wary of this title but , actually , it was quite pleasant if , in no way , a classic ! The very first scene is an inspired one : we see Norman's sweaty face in an atmosphere of overbearing heat ( the film was shot by Jack Asher , a talented cameraman best known for his work for Hammer but who also happens to be the brother of the director ! ) meticulously going about his business thinking he works in a steamship or something , but eventually discovering that what he's doing is simply pressing a pair of pants ( a sophisticated style of gag which has been utilized as early as Harold Lloyd's SAFETY LAST [ 1923 ] ) . The plot - a fading crooner ' borrowing ' the voice of a naïve newcomer - is simple enough and has been partly lifted from SINGIN ' IN THE RAIN ( 1952 ) . While the love interest is more sentimental than usual , since Norman's sweetheart is wheelchair-bound and he wants to make it as a singer mainly so as to have the money for her operation , the film provides plenty of amusing situations highlighting the ageing performer ( Jerry Desmonde at his most despicable ) , ebullient elocutionist Hattie Jacques and long-suffering maitre d ' John Le Mesurier ; a party sequence halfway through the film also features a surprise early appearance by a dark-haired Charles Gray !
Wolf Creek	Although apparently based on true events , this Australian slasher film is ultimately an unsurprising if occasionally effective rehash of The Texas Chain Saw Massacre ( 1974 ) . After a fairly unpromising start which shows a bunch of teenagers partying hard and a group of them setting out for a camping trip , it picks up considerably with the belated entrance of creepy villain John Jarratt whose vivid characterization is the best thing in the movie ; the two girls in the harassed trio are also quite good and one feels empathy towards their plight but the same cannot be said about their ineffectual and rather obnoxious male companion .
HERCULES UNCHAINED ( Pietro Francisci , 1959 )	The sequel to HERCULES ( 1958 ) is even less enthusing but remains , nonetheless , an adequate example of the peplum genre . Sylva Koscina’s role of Iole , Hercules’ love interest , is diminished here since the most prominent female figure on display emerges to be the femme fatale-ish Queen of Lidia Omphale ( the film’s original title , incidentally , translates to HERCULES AND THE QUEEN OF LIDIA ) – the latter is played by another red-headed beauty Sylvia Lopez , who died of leukemia not long after the film’s release ! Needless to say , the muscle-bound hero ( Steve Reeves ) falls under her spell after having conveniently drunk from a spring that renders him an amnesiac ( though not before he’s been engaged in an irrelevant wrestling bout with ex-heavyweight champion Primo Carnera as an irascible giant ! ) ; his friend Ulysses , however , is on hand to watch over him ( ostensibly in the function of Hercules’ deaf-mute slave ) . Meanwhile , back home in Thebes , two brothers fight it out over the throne – with Iole at the mercy of a cackling maniac ( an over-the-top Sergio Fantoni ) . . . By the way , both of these Hercules films featured atmospheric cinematography by Mario Bava - who would himself direct one of the better adventures revolving around this mythical figure , HERCULES IN THE HAUNTED WORLD ( 1961 ) starring Reg Park . As for Francisci , he worked most often in this genre : from ATTILA ( 1954 ; co-starring Anthony Quinn and Sophia Loren ) – which is overdue for a reappraisal and has , incidentally , just been announced as an upcoming DVD release from Lionsgate ! – to the low-brow HERCULES , SAMSON AND ULYSSES ( 1963 ; with Kirk Morris now as Hercules ) and SINBAD AND THE CALIPH OF BAGHDAD ( 1973 ; his last film and which I recall watching eons ago on Italian TV ) .
SIGN OF THE PAGAN ( Douglas Sirk , 1954 )	Before settling down to being almost exclusively the purveyor of glossy melodramas , Douglas Sirk tried his hand at the historical spectacle with this ? dealing with the exploits of legendary warrior Attila The Hun ( vigorously played here by Jack Palance ) ? and CAPTAIN LIGHTFOOT ( 1955 ) , which I had watched as a child and also tried to acquire not too long ago ( but it didn't pan out ) . Incidentally , I had some trouble with this one too at first but then got hold of a copy ? of surprisingly passable quality , despite an almost-constant reddish hue ? culled from a local TV screening dating from the 1980s ( which print is owned by the former sexton film-buff who occasionally invites me and a few other friends over to partake of his extensive private collection ) ! The plot sees the Barbarian hordes joining forces ( under the leadership of Attila ) to attack the divided Roman Empire ; the film starts with Attila releasing a Roman centurion ( Jeff Chandler ) in order to alert his rival Emperors of their coming : this proves an unwise decision because , with the help of the sister ( Ludmilla Tcherina ) of one of them , he manage to unite the Roman legions to face the impending onslaught . Other important figures in the intrigue-laden narrative are : a Roman General ( Jeff Morrow ) who assists Chandler in his task ; Attila's sturdy daughter ( Rita Gam ) who , smitten with the Roman and drawn towards Christianity , begins to find her father's savage ways deplorable ; and the Empress of a nation conquered by the Huns and taken for wife by Attila , but who takes her ultimate revenge by murdering him during the climactic battle . Chandler doesn't look too bad in Roman garb , while Palance predictably chews the scenery ( his Attila is something of a neurotic who organizes his campaigns on the basis of his astrologer's advice ! ) ; on the other hand , Tcherina is saddled with a rather underwritten part but Gam does well in her mix of tomboy and ingénue . While Sirk's handling cannot be called impersonal , it was not exactly inspired either ; that said , the film is not as pious ? and , consequently , dull ? as many of its ilk , the scope reasonably sprawling and the action highlights more than just adequate . By the way , for Palance this was a sort of precursor to Andre ' De Toth's similarly interesting THE MONGOLS ( 1961 ) , which was actually an Italian production ; from that same country and contemporaneously with SIGN OF THE PAGAN came another outing about the bloodthirsty Hun , ATTILA ( 1954 ) , with Anthony Quinn in the lead ( my father had rented the English-language version back in the day but , having recently taped the original on late-night Italian TV , I'll be re-acquainting myself with it presently as a companion piece to Sirk's epic ) .
. . . AND NOW THE SCREAMING STARTS ! ( Roy Ward Baker , 1973 )	I remember being underwhelmed when I first watched this ( a pan & scan airing on TV some years ago ) , but re-acquainting myself with it via Anchor Bay UK's exemplary DVD edition has proved surprisingly enjoyable - despite its utter lack of originality ! Being Amicus ' sole foray into full-blown Gothic horror , this film perhaps draws the most comparisons with the ' rival ' Hammer films , and as such manages to keep its own in their company by virtue of its polished ( if not expensive ) production values - Denys Coop's intricate camera-work , Douglas Gamley's atmospheric score and Tony Curtis ' handsome sets - and its top cast , comprised of any number of renowned genre stars . Stephanie Beacham ( who screams and faints like the best of them ! ) actually manages to keep the audience involved in her plight , which is no easy feat seeing that precious little of the plot is revealed during its first half ; Ian Ogilvy is an adequately brooding master-of-the house ; Geoffrey Whitehead is a mysterious and vaguely sinister woodsmen who lives on the property ( actually doubling as his own grandfather in the flashback sequence towards the end ) ; Guy Rolfe and Rosalie Crutchley have small but fairly important roles in support . However , the film belongs to three thespians and it seems that the producers knew this as well , given they were top-billed : Peter Cushing , whose belated arrival does not disguise the fact that he's the true star of the show ( nothing new for him here , really , but he's always worth watching ) ; Herbert Lom as a particularly nasty descendant of Ogilvy's and whose misdemeanors have put a terrible curse over the entire house ; Patrick Magee as the compassionate but eventually weak-willed town medic ( who's regrettably thrown to the sidelines and eventually dispatched once Cushing , who's of a more analytical approach , arrives on the scene ) . The film features a number of effective moments : the hand bursting out of the painting ; the many scenes involving the crawling hand ( though a rather tired motif by now , especially since it was not a part of the original novel ! ) ; likewise , the many appearances of Whitehead's disfigured and spooky ancestor ; the all-important flashback involving Lom's character ( basically lifted outright from Conan Doyle's " The Hound Of The Baskervilles " ) which , apart from brutal ( if not too graphic ) rape and symbolic mutilation , also features some brief nudity - unless I'm mistaken , a first for Amicus ( in contrast , Beacham's violation by the ' ghost ' is presented in a lot subtler way which , by the end , only led to confusion for some viewers as to what had really happened to her ! ) ; the finale is quite interesting for this type of film ( though , again , hardly ground-breaking in the broader scheme of things ) : Ogilvy going mad a ' la WITCHFINDER GENERAL ( 1968 ) and literally digging up his grandfather's corpse while Beacham , equally unhinged by this time , is perplexed by the presence of her new-born child who may or may not be ' possessed ' ( echoes of ROSEMARY'S BABY [ 1968 ] ) - the sight of Cushing presiding over this scene and realizing that all his ' enlightened ' advise has brought only misery upon the couple lends the whole a rare ( and probably unwitting ) poignancy . With respect to the video / audio department , Anchor Bay UK handles this area of the disc satisfactorily . The Audio Commentaries are the icing on the cake for this release - two excellent tracks that take in everything one would possibly want to know about the production , including the fact that all seemingly agree on the singularly unbecoming retitling of the film by producer Max J . Rosenberg , and then some ( Ogilvy comes off as a very pleasant chap who looks back at his days in horror cinema with great fondness , though he continually underestimates his own memory of them ! ; Stephanie Beacham and Roy Ward Baker seem very glad to be once again in each other's company while also evidently very proud of their respective work here ; moderators Darren Gross and Marcus Hearn , respectively , come up with relevant questions and general factoids so that both tracks remain , ahem , on track for the most part ) . Finally , there are film notes , bios , a trailer , some TV spots and a poster / stills gallery which , as with the other discs in this Collection , add up to a very nice extra touch .
THE SILVER CHALICE ( Victor Saville , 1954 )	Due to its bad reputation , I foolishly missed out on this one on local Cable TV during the late 1990s ; however , when the opportunity arose recently to watch it – in tribute to its late star , Paul Newman – via a somewhat washed-out if quite serviceable 16mm print projected in a private cinema owned by an old friend of my father's ( who's also a well-known film collector ) – I couldn't very well decline ! Incidentally , this was Newman's debut film ( and one he famously later apologized for to his fans , being clearly out-of-place in a biblical epic , even going so far as to call it " the worst film made in the entirety of the 1950s " – I'd say it's definitely in the running for the title of oddest ! ) . By the way , I hadn't intended to include it in my Halloween Challenge list , but the presence of power-mad magician Jack Palance and the weirdly avant-gardist sets which wouldn't be amiss in a sci-fi movie changed my mind about this ! The plot starts off with a young Greek boy , a promising sculptor , being given away for adoption by his poor father ( Ian Wolfe ) to a merchant ( E . G . Marshall ) ; the latter intends making him his heir , sealed by a pact witnessed by a number of servants ( including Albert Dekker ) . All of this , however , doesn't sit well with Marshall's brother ( the face of the actor portraying him seemed very familiar to me , but I had to search the IMDb for his name – it turned out to be Herbert Rudley , whom I'd recently watched in two low-budget but quite impressive films , THE MASTER RACE [ 1944 ] and DECOY [ 1946 ] ! ) ; consequently , after Marshall's death , the boy is sold into slavery ( but not before he has befriended one of his adoptive father's own slave girls , played by a blonde Natalie Wood ) . Some years later , we find that Newman has continued to develop his craft and has made quite a name for himself – so much so that the apostle Luke ( Alexander Scourby ) has sought him out to fashion a silver chalice that would hold the cup Christ drank from during the Last Supper ; as a result of accepting this assignment , Newman befriends Joseph of Arimatea ( Walter Hampden ) and his lovely daughter ( Pier Angeli ) – incidentally , Newman and Angeli would be much more happily reteamed in his breakthrough film SOMEBODY UP THERE LIKES ME ( 1956 ) . In the interim , Wood has turned into the most lusted-after Antioch-based courtesan ( Virginia Mayo ) ; into the story now enter two other important figures – Joseph Wiseman is the member of a sect who wants the people to rise up against the Romans ( he's eventually involved in a scuffle in the desert with Newman ) – an event which he deems possible with the arrival of Palance , who's building himself up as an alternative Messiah ( and who seems to bear a grudge towards Simon Peter , played by a debuting Lorne Greene ! ) . The film was one of a slew of Biblical epics to emerge in the wake of the colossal QUO VADIS ( 1951 ) ; in fact , its plot line isn't dissimilar from that of ( the much more successful ) THE ROBE ( 1953 ) – which also revolved around a coveted relic of Christ epitomizing the struggle between Christianity and Paganism . As I said , the film is highlighted by unusual-looking sets ( by Rolf Gerard ) ; even so , it's nowhere near as bad as Newman ( or contemporary critics ) claimed – though the star is undeniably wooden ; besides , there's a definite ( and not disagreeable ) camp factor to the film with respect to Mayo's make-up , some of the dialogue ( especially Greene's closing straight-to-camera monologue , not to mention his taking on the persona of hunchbacked tavern-keeper to escape Roman detection ! ) and Palance's inspired contribution ( performing magic tricks involving snakes , wearing a beehive-shaped cap and , later , a Riddler-like costume equipped with Wile E . Coyote bat-like wings – by which he seeks to astound the Roman crowds , Emperor Nero among them , by pretending to fly ) ! Victor Saville ( whose last effort as a director this proved to be ) was a distinguished film personality best noted as a producer , but he had previously tread similar period / epic trappings in GREEN DOLPHIN STREET ( 1947 ) and KIM ( 1950 ) . For all its faults and instant notoriety , the film still notched up two Oscar nominations for Best Cinematography ( by William V . Skall ) and Franz Waxman's rousing score ! Despite the film's considerable length ( 142 minutes ) which necessitated two intermissions for reel-changing purposes , the fact that I watched it under those conditions mentioned above made it seem decidedly shorter and I look forward to future visits to that same venue ( in fact , I spent a good deal of time before and after the screening looking over – and simply admiring – his vast collection ! ) .
I DO ( Hal Roach , 1921 )	This Harold Lloyd short opens with a potentially dangerous but carefully choreographed gag in which the love-struck comedian is impervious to the heavy traffic while crossing the road . It also features an amusing gag concerning the hiding of liquor bottles by the hero and heroine inside a baby carriage , with curious bystanders wanting to peek at what they think is a baby ( somehow , this subterfuge seems to have subsequently been adopted by the entire neighborhood ! ) . Later , the plot revolves around a lengthy set-piece in which some opportunistic relatives of the Lloyds dump their irrepressible kids in their care ( considering that my family have been ' suffering ' from this very same burden - with the boy in question being my own mentally-retarded cousin - for the last 17 years , I found this section of the film somewhat uneasy ) but the invention here was certainly up to snuff - as when one of the children starts sawing the furniture and then nails Harold's slippers to the floor , and especially the star's disastrous attempt at preparing a bottle of milk for an infant . Also incorporated at this point is the possible intrusion into the couple's home by a suspicious-looking character ( who turns out to be just the night-watchman ) .
THE DOCTOR'S DILEMMA ( Anthony Asquith , 1958 )	An interesting but not particularly engaging George Bernard Shaw satirical play is given a serviceable cinematic treatment from director Asquith - who clearly had fared much better with PYGMALION ( 1938 ) - but , nonetheless , the film is buoyed by a good cast ( Leslie Caron , Dirk Bogarde , Alastair Sim . Robert Morley , Felix Aylmer , Michael Gwynne , Alec McCowen ) and production values ( cinematographer Robert Krasker , composer Joseph Kosma , costumer Cecil Beaton , production designer Paul Sheriff ) . As it happens , some performers acquit themselves better than others : Bogarde is fun as an impoverished but Machiavellian painter dying of tuberculosis and Sim and Morley are their usual pompous selves as two renowned " quacks " competing to treat him so to earn favors from his lovely wife ( an unfortunately out-of-her-league Caron ) .
DON'T SAY A WORD ( Gary Fleder , 2001 )	While the film has a decent cast and a sound premise , it is also fairly unexceptional and predictable if still quite enjoyable while it is going on . Michael Douglas and Sean Bean make for good antagonists and both Brittany Murphy and Jennifer Esposito acquit themselves well in this company . However , Famke Janssen's role as Douglas ' bed-ridden wife is seriously under-written and the whole " wife-in-distress " subplot could have been jettisoned altogether without adversely affecting the main plot line in any way and I also found the occasionally over-emphatic directorial strokes ( slow motion , freeze frames , etc . ) to be equally unnecessary .
THE BIG BROADCAST OF 1938 ( Mitchell Leisen , 1938 )	This was the fourth and last in a series of " Big Broadcast " movies made by Paramount over a period of seven years ; they were essentially the studio's reply to MGM's run of " Broadway Melody " releases . I've watched two among the latter franchise ( see below and the 1940 entry ) but this is my first brush with the " Big Broadcast " series ; comparing the two , it seems the MGM films had much more plot than Paramount's ? but the latter , to their ultimate advantage , incorporated much more comedy . In this particular case , we get two ( ! ) W . C . Fields and , in his screen debut , Bob Hope ; the former is his typical larger-than-life and iconoclastic self ( traveling on a motorbike that can spread its wings and fly ! ) ? who manages to revive two of his favorite game routines i . e . golf and billiards ? while the latter is already the wisecracking heel ( who has four wives to his name and another in the offing ! ) emceeing the entertainment aboard one of two cruise-liners engaged in a race . The show involves several long-forgotten ( and now highly-resistible ) attractions ? ranging from a Mexican heart-throb to a female soprano ? and even a bland bit of animation ( courtesy of Leon Schlesinger from Warners ' " Looney Tunes " stable ) . Needless to say , there is the obligatory romance as well ? between Hope's proposed No . 5 wife Dorothy Lamour and inventor Leif Erickson , Hope's own re-affirmed affection for ex-spouse Shirley Ross ( while singing his signature tune , the Oscar-winning " Thanks For The Memory " ) and between Fields ' even wackier daughter Martha Raye and her companion Lynne Overman . All the various stars ( including a redundant third comic in Ben Blue ) get to do their thing , but the laughter element is clearly the most effective ? with Fields ' surreal antics ( the best of which , perhaps , is when he unwittingly blows up a gas station ) and Hope's quips mixing quite well ( though the two barely ever meet throughout ! ) . Most of the music , then , is pretty dire ( as already intimated ) , while the choreography includes an energetic number highlighting Raye and the expected splashy finale . At least , director Leisen ( who had also helmed the previous entry from 1937 ) lends the film his customary surface style .
JULIUS CAESAR ( Stuart Burge , 1970 )	This second big-screen attempt at Shakespeare's play is pretty much neglected in the face of the lavish ( despite being in black-and-white ) and acclaimed 1953 MGM version . A number of cinematic adaptations of The Bard's work had been made in the interim , but the Roman Empire setting and concluding battle sequence seemed ideal at a time of big-budget , star-studded epics . That said , the film under review is noted as being " technically ragged " and has even been likened to a peplum ! I had initially balked at the prospect of adding this to my collection in view of the fact that both existing DVD editions are only available in a full-frame format ; still , I changed my mind so that I could include it in my Charlton Heston tribute . When I was in Hollywood , I had watched another Shakespearean film adaptation from the same director ? OTHELLO ( 1965 ) , with Laurence Olivier ; I recall being somewhat underwhelmed by it ? coming across as excessively stagy and , therefore , uninventive compared to Orson Welles ' highly cinematic rendition from 1952 ( though it may also have been due to the massive length , 166 minutes , of Burge's take on that celebrated play ) . At 116 minutes , JULIUS CAESAR is a more manageable enterprise and , as I said , at least it ' opens up ' towards the end ; besides , its gripping narrative of political machinations is among Shakespeare's more compelling . Which brings us to a comparison of the 1953 and 1970 versions : if there's one thing that could be leveled against the former is that it flaunts the trademark MGM gloss ? plus the fact that it was determined to have a star in even the rather negligible female roles ( Greer Garson as Calpurnia and Deborah Kerr as Portia ) , not so much because they were right for the part but because it would have added to the marquee / prestige value or , more crudely , the budget could afford it ! Otherwise , that film is distinguished by Marlon Brando's fiery Mark Antony , James Mason's thoughtful Brutus and John Gielgud's wily Cassius ? not to mention Miklos Rozsa's typically grandiose score . While the 1970 film adds color and a wider aspect ratio ( somewhat negated here by the disappointing panning-and-scanning of the image ) to benefit the spectacular elements of the plot , and the casting itself looks pretty impressive on paper , it can't really hold a candle to the earlier version ! Charlton Heston is decent as Antony : he had already played the character in a 1950 TV adaptation and would do so again in the 1972 ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA ? based on another Shakespeare play and which he personally directed ( I know this latter film was shown a couple of times in my childhood , including a Sunday matinée ' broadcast on local TV but I'm damned if I recall whether I had sat throughout its entire 170-minute running-time , or even if the print was that long to begin with ; inexplicably , the film seems to have vanished off the face of the earth since then ! ) . In any case , Heston's by-now established larger-than-life persona is enough to carry the weight of the role , and he does especially well in the pivotal oratory at Caesar's funeral ? whilst lacking the essential brooding passion that had marked Brando's earlier portrayal . Jason Robards Jr . is a notoriously glum Brutus ? seemingly uncertain as to how approach the text , his resultant feeble performance truly hurts the overall effort . Richard Johnson , on the other hand , is a fine Cassius : ironically , the fury displayed by him at Brutus ' decision to allow Antony to speak on behalf of Caesar in front of the people is that more palpable here in the wake of Robards ' ineffectual Brutus ! John Gielgud exchanges Cassius's robes from the 1953 film for those of the titular figure ? a legendary interpreter of The Bard's work , he offers a dignified portrayal of the fated conqueror / dictator with a misplaced trust in his peers . Robert Vaughn is a surprisingly good Casca , perhaps Cassius ' closest supporter ; Richard Chamberlain is Octavian , Antony's ally in routing the conspirators ? he only turns up in the last third , with his best moment coming during the confrontation on horseback ( flanked by Antony himself ) with Cassius and Brutus at Philippi . Diana Rigg as Portia has just one scene alongside her husband , Brutus , but the future Dame clearly outshines the miscast Robards ! ; Jill Bennett appears as the superstitious Calpurnia . Christopher Lee , who receives fairly prominent billing , has only a very negligible role ? as a citizen ( mystic ? ) whose advice to Caesar to be wary of his flatterers goes tragically unheeded ? but it was nonetheless nice to see him in this company ; Michael Gough , a horror icon in his own right , is another of Caesar's envious senators determined to bring him down for the good of the Empire ; Andre ' Morell plays Cicero ? his character is often mentioned but the actor's silent contribution is completely redundant , since he only appears in a couple of brief shots ! The opening sequence ? a sinister panorama of a battlefield strewn with rotting corpses and vultures hovering above ? is striking ( this is surprisingly followed by one instance of nudity amid the footage serving as background to the credits ! ) and the finale notches up a few acceptable bouts of action , but the rest of it is generally uninspiring . For the record , I've watched numerous straight adaptations of Shakespeare's work over the years ( beginning from a fairly young age ) ; of late , however , I've become wary of them because of the considerable effort required to get attuned to his idiosyncratic style of writing ? and , even if I was already familiar with this particular play via numerous viewings of the 1953 film , it sadly proved to be no exception to the rule here either ?
RINGO AND HIS GOLDEN PISTOL ( Sergio Corbucci , 1966 )	Corbucci's fourth Spaghetti Western is likable enough , but it's still a long way from the baroque style of his subsequent example in the genre - DJANGO ( 1966 ) - much less the ultra-bleak outlook of his masterpiece , THE GREAT SILENCE ( 1968 ) . Besides , star Mark Damon - made up here to look like the long-lost brother of Bob Dylan's Alias character in Sam Peckinpah's PAT GARRETT AND BILLY THE KID ( 1973 ) ! - lacks the screen presence of Franco Nero , let alone the intelligence of Jean-Louis Trintignant ! He still has fond memories of the film , however , since he mentioned it during the Italian B-movie retrospective at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ( which my brother and I attended ) ! Apart from presenting an unusual - and perhaps unlikely - alliance against the cowboys by Mexicans and Indians , the film has a healthy sense of humor : after he's insulted in a bar , Damon orders the protracted preparation of a concoction made up of some ungodly ingredients - only to then throw it in the face of his opponent ! ; later , facing up to three bad men without his coveted golden pistol , he blows them all away by unceremoniously throwing a bomb in their midst ! ; sheriff Ettore Manni's jail has a frequent customer ( to the point where he has come to consider it his home ! ) in a pint-sized old man - told by the former that he can't stay any longer , the latter commits " wilful damage to public property " by breaking the jail's windows as soon as he exits and , turning himself in immediately , he is thus able to keep his place in jail ! The film manages to end with a bang : Damon blowing up the main street of the town ( it seems that's all we ever get to see from it in any Western ! ) - followed by a memorable showdown ( involving Damon's gold-plated paraphernalia ) . Carlo Savina's title tune is catchy , too : the film was originally called JOHNNY ORO and , therefore , has no relation to the two earlier " Ringo " titles made by director Duccio Tessari and starring Giuliano Gemma !
KILLERS OF KILIMANJARO ( Richard Thorpe , 1959 )	This British-made safari adventure is yet another outing from Warwick Films ( which would eventually evolve into Eon Productions with the James Bond series ) ; although the title itself is meaningless , the plot awfully thin and the budget evidently restrained , the end results are quite pleasant and handsome to look at ( despite the panning-and-scanning from the original ' Scope ratio ) . American Robert Taylor fills in the required " fading Hollywood star " spot for added marquee ' value , while fetching redhead Anne Aubrey and amiably clumsy Anthony Newley ? both reunited from the same team's THE BANDIT OF ZHOBE ( 1959 ; a screening of which , coincidentally , also came about for me on the same day I acquired this one ! ) are the proverbial young up-and-coming stars . While Taylor is ostensibly a railroad engineer accompanying Aubrey to seek out her long-lost father and fiancée ( Allan Cuthbertson ) in dangerous Warusha country , there is hardly a train in sight throughout the film but instead as much actual animal footage as their ( limited ) resources could buy . The cast is rounded-up by a would-be villainous Gregoire Aslan , his spunky son played by our very own John Dimech , ( who joins Taylor's expedition and , bizarrely , orders the African porters around in his native Maltese tongue for a while but then swaps for what sounds like gibberish passing for authentic Swahili ! ) , Martin Benson ( as a treacherous head porter ) , Martin Boddey ( as a rival German railroad engineer ) and , very early on , Donald Pleasence as a ship's captain . It was amusing for me to watch Dimech sharing scenes with Newley and Pleasence since both these two stalwarts would themselves come to Malta ? in the late 1960s ( controversially ) and early 1980s ( obscurely , although I did manage to catch a glimpse of him drinking at the bar of a local Band Club ) respectively !
ISLAND OF TERROR ( Terence Fisher , 1966 )	This is a lesser collaboration between director Fisher and star Peter Cushing , one that wasn't done for Hammer Films but rather the short-lived Planet Films . In view of a budget even more limited than usual , therefore , the end result is well enough made and fairly enjoyable in itself . The sci-fi plot is as persuasive as can be expected , the special effects crude but not ineffective ; disappointingly , the famous shot of Cushing's dismembered hand after having been attacked by the bone-crunching Silicates is missing from this print - which , unfortunately , is also quite damaged ( particularly at transition points ) . However , a good cast - including Edward Judd and Niall MacGinnis - keeps one watching , and the film has other assets in its island setting and Malcolm Arnold's efficient score . The main supplement on DD Video's release is a 25-minute interview with Christopher Lee about Terence Fisher : his comments are interesting and informed as always ( though he rather comes off as more cantankerous than ever before ! ) but , given his numerous such participations on DVD , most of the anecdotes recounted here are already familiar to genre fans !
MAGNIFICENT SINNER ( Robert Siodmak , 1959 )	Following his 11-year tenure in Hollywood between 1941 and 1952 , expatriate German director Siodmak decided to return to Europe ; he would subsequently contrive to make three more English-language films , even if they weren’t up to his best work in the States – but , then , neither was the ‘foreign’ stuff . This costumer ( a remake of a 1938 film by Maurice Tourneur ) is a German / French co-production : it’s a good-looking if stilted melodrama involving impossible love in the Russian court of Alexander II ( Curd Jurgens ) ; with an ailing wife , he draws his amorous attention to a proud teenage beauty ( Romy Schneider ) . Their romance , however , is likely to throw the already troubled Czarist rule ( by the activities of a group of terrorists seeking more humane laws ) into turmoil ; he himself mistrusts his ministers , but they in their turn are willing to collaborate with the ‘enemy’ in order to put a stop to Jurgens and Schneider’s love – which is giving the Empire a bad name thus threatening their own position ! In fact , during the course of the film , we are witness to no fewer than four attempts on the Czar’s life – which is a bit much , if you ask me ; nevertheless , it’s in scenes like these where we get a glimpse of the old Siodmak ( he was one of the finest exponents of Film Noir ) : the film’s most creative bit of direction is Siodmak’s decision to refrain from showing a duel but rather concentrate on the snow-covered trees nearby and only cutting to the bloodied body ( Katia’s officer brother who was defending her honor ! ) once the shots are heard on the soundtrack . The revolutionaries themselves – led by future Claude Chabrol regular Michel Bouquet – are typically depicted as desperate men ( and women ) rather than villainous ( a fate reserved for the Ministers , though they’re actually more pitiful and misguided in their own self-importance than truly evil ) ; the ultimate irony is that Jurgens had always been sympathetic to the terrorists’ cause , but the burden of tradition and a whole set of events ( such as the release of the rebels’ imprisoned friends , promised them by the Emperor via Katia , seen as an act of betrayal when the Ministers arrange for the ex-convicts to be gunned down soon after ) eventually seal his fate . . . just as , with the Empress dead , Schneider was about to take her place on the throne by his side ! For the record , the impossibly young Schneider had actually risen to stardom with a similar Ruritanian i . e . quasi fairy-tale role – that of Princess Sissi in a series of three Austrian films made between 1955 and 1957 ; as for Jurgens , I have his second of two Michel Strogoff films ( made in 1956 and 1961 ) recorded , as was this one , off Italian TV awaiting its turn to be watched . Finally , given KATIA’s silly U . S . retitling , one shouldn’t confuse it with an earlier Siodmak picture from his Hollywood days – THE GREAT SINNER ( 1949 ) which , incidentally , was also a period piece about Russians ( adapted , as a matter of fact , from Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s " The Gambler " ) .
FIGHTING ELEGY ( Seijun Suzuki , 1966 )	This was only my fourth Seijun Suzuki film - after TOKYO DRIFTER ( 1966 ) , BRANDED TO KILL ( 1967 ) and PISTOL OPERA ( 2001 ) - and it's a typically energetic outing , with strong doses of comedy augmenting the character study of a young man who can only express himself adequately through violence and how he is forced to take stock of his life after falling in love with a cultured young girl . Drawing obvious parallels to FIGHT CLUB ( 1999 ) , the film's fight scenes are quite well done but , even more interestingly , it looks forward to the struggle between religious faith and a violent environment that would surface in later films , primarily the work of Martin Scorsese ( the script of FIGHTING ELEGY was penned by Kaneto Shindo , director of THE NAKED ISLAND [ 1960 ] and ONIBABA [ 1964 ] ! ) . However , the film runs out of steam towards the end by taking an unexpectedly serious ( and propagandist ) turn which doesn't sit comfortably with the anarchy that had gone on before !
CHURCHILL'S LEOPARDS ( Maurizo Pradeaux , 1970 )	This is a decent example of the Italian brand of war movies which , although they never quite reached the artistic heights or levels of influence which their peplums , giallos or Spaghetti Westerns had , frequently offer an offbeat , mildly diverting perspective on familiar historical events . This one here stars Richard Harrison ( as an English agent posing as his dead German officer twin brother ! ) and Klaus Kinski as a sadistic SS official ; the fetching female parts ( on both sides of the fence , naturally ) are personified by Pilar Velazquez and Helga Line ' , while Giacomo Rossi Stuart and Antonio Casas have key roles to play within the Resistance lines . There are no overwhelmingly spectacular action set-pieces or jaw-droppingly clever plot twists to speak of , but I found this to be an unassuming and adequately handled time-passer which , unlike some of its Italian war film contemporaries , does not heavily feature Hollywood has-beens in an attempt to pass for one of their productions and is , in any case , mercifully short .
Fritz Lang's Indian Epic	I was wary of purchasing Fantoma's 2-Disc Set of " Fritz Lang's Indian Epic " after being somewhat let down by the 1921 Silent original ( co-scripted by Lang himself ) and also its less-than-stellar reputation . For this reason , when the second part of the saga turned up on Italian TV a couple of years ago , I decided to check it out just the same so as to get an inkling of what to expect ! I recall thinking it pretty kitschy and unworthy of Lang's enormous talent , but Fantoma's sale ( through their website ) of their entire DVD catalog a few months back made it an irresistible acquisition ! Well , having now watched the entire saga ( with dialogue and in color , as opposed to the rather static Silent version directed by Joe May - although hearing the Indian-garbed characters talking in German took some getting used to ) , I was pleasantly surprised by how genuinely engaging and sheerly enjoyable it all was ! Though it was sold as an epic production ( to the point of concluding ESCHNAPUR with the promise that Part II would feature greater thrills and even more spectacle ) at a time when such films were all the rage , the saga was actually a pretty modest undertaking by eclectic ( and prolific ) German producer Artur Brauner . Despite the two films ' exotic , handsome look ( not least in the provocative dances of Debra Paget ) , the budgetary constraints were painfully obvious in the special effects department , especially the hilarious appearance of a ' ropey ' cobra which is intended to ' test ' ( the scantily-clad ) Miss Paget's faithfulness to the Maharajah ! ! All in all , even if these films hardly constitute Lang's greatest work ( though he harbored an evident affection throughout his life for this particular tale , which was originally conceived by his former wife Thea von Harbou ) , they have great - and enduring - appeal for aficionados of old-fashioned , serial-like adventure stories tinged with romance and mysticism . Even so , while I don't subscribe to that school of thought myself , there are some film critics ( Tom Gunning , Jean Douchet and Pierre Rissient among them ) who think very highly of Lang's Indian diptych - the first considering it one of Lang's towering achievements and the last two numbering it among the ten greatest films of all time ! !
CONAN THE DESTROYER ( Richard Fleischer , 1984 )	Even before I reacquainted myself with its predecessor , I knew this would basically prove to be an unassuming comic-strip effort – which may have been closer to Robert E . Howard’s source material than the more realistic first film ( which perhaps drew more on the famously stark illustrations of Frank Frazetta for its look ) . Anyway , while this emerged a somewhat more engaging adventure than RED SONJA ( 1985 ) , the plot of both films is strikingly similar – in that the mission in each involves a girl in peril ( here , however , she’s an innocent rather than a warrior ) helped by he-man Arnold Schwarzenegger to fight an evil queen / sorceress and her legions – even if the obligatory comic relief is perhaps even less welcome this time around ( via Conan’s diminutive and cowardly sidekick Tracey Walter ) ! The action highlights are also more elaborate ( though they’re far from the stylized ones featured in the 1982 CONAN THE BARBARIAN – and , consequently , less impressive ) : these include the oft-seen trick involving a wizard defeated by shattering his multiple reflection in a hall of mirrors , and the climax where Conan ( with the dubious help of Walter ) battle a Toho-style monster ( ! ) called Dagoth . Despite employing director Fleischer and legendary cinematographer Jack Cardiff ( both of whom had worked on THE VIKINGS [ 1958 ] , one of the most impressive – and evocative – epics from the genre’s heyday ) , the film can hardly be compared to that magnificent achievement . For starters , Schwarzenegger’s Conan comes off rather buffoonish at times , especially during a drunken reverie in which he stumbles clumsily into rockfaces and in an unintentionally hilarious shot when villainess Sarah Douglas asks Conan to think and we cut to a close-up of wide-eyed Arnie ! The cast is made up of veteran character actors ( Mako , Jeff Corey and Ferdy Mayne ) and supporting newcomers ( Grace Jones , Olivia D’Abo , Wilt Chamberlain ) and Basil Poledouris once again provides stirring musical accompaniment . Although I revisited the film via the UK R2 DVD , unfortunately it was the original , bare-bones and slightly censored disc rather than any of the two subsequent SE DVDs which include Audio Commentaries with Fleischer , Douglas , D’Abo and Walter !
KRIMINAL ( Umberto Lenzi , 1966 )	Fun caper which anticipated Mario Bava's DANGER : DIABOLIK ( 1968 ) - which I rewatched the very next day via Paramount's SE DVD - but isn't nearly as stylish ! Glenn Saxson is a wooden lead ( I should be watching him again soon in a Spaghetti Western , DJANGO SHOOTS FIRST [ 1966 ] ) , though Helga Line ' - in a dual role ! - is an attractive foil . Raymond Full's score is infectious and appropriately playful , while Angelo Lotti's pleasing cinematography takes in picture-postcard views of London , Madrid and Istanbul . Still , even though Kriminal's skeletal costume may work on paper ( the film originated as a comic-strip ) , it feels rather silly when displayed on the screen - and , ultimately , has been infrequently used ! The film , however , creates some pretty exciting set-pieces ( including the ruse of exchanged identity towards the end ) and even concludes with a nice twist , opening the way for an eventual sequel - which arrived in the form of IL MARCHIO DI KRIMINAL ( 1968 ) . . .
THE LONG SHIPS ( Jack Cardiff , 1964 )	Richard Flesicher's THE VIKINGS ( 1958 ) was , together with the original version of KING KONG ( 1933 ) , the film I watched most during my childhood - and I still consider it one of the finest adventure movies ever made . Knowing that this was made in its wake , I have always been interested in watching it and , actually , I had seen bits and pieces from the film on a Sicilian TV channel one Sunday afternoon some 20 years ago ! I finally acquired it a few weeks back but when , in anticipation of my viewing it , I read what my favorite online DVD reviewer Glenn Erickson aka DVD Savant , had to say about the film - calling it " a feeble joke " , " a real embarrassment " , " a total botch " , and " one big goulash of mistakes " - I was somewhat dreading the prospect of watching it ! The cast is certainly promising : Richard Widmark and Sidney Poitier ( in their second of three collaborations ) , Russ Tamblyn , Rosanna Schiaffino ( surprising casting , given that the film is a British / Yugoslavian production , but actually quite good as Poitier's non-Moorish wife who eventually has a brief fling with Widmark ) , Edward Judd , Oskar Homolka , Clifford Evans , Colin Blakely , Gordon Jackson , David Lodge and ( in hindsight , unrecognizable ) Lionel Jeffries ! Widmark is fun as the tell-tale Viking hero but Poitier , saddled with an unbecoming Billy Dee Williams-type wig as a Moorish prince , looks miserable throughout ( he later considered the film " a disaster " himself ) ; Tamblyn as Widmark's brother is typically energetic and Homolka is evidently aping Ernest Borgnine's turn in THE VIKINGS as the Norse patriarch . . . but the most bizarre casting of all is that of Jeffries as the insufferable eunuch in Poitier's harem ( although his screen time is mercifully brief ) ! Director Cardiff had been the cameraman on the earlier Viking epic and , though THE LONG SHIPS was based on a book , it clearly took much inspiration from the Fleischer film : the Viking festivities , the Norse community welcoming its returning males , Widmark and Tamblyn both falling for female enemies , etc . Two of THE VIKINGS ' major assets were the awesome cinematography and the unforgettable score ; these two aspects are also notable here ( courtesy of Christopher Challis and Dusan Radic respectively ) - though the latter does grow repetitive after a while . The action scenes , with a surfeit of falling horses and leaping Norsemen , are decent enough - though the ' Mare of Steel ' torture device promises brutality which never materializes ! The quest for the Golden Bell ( introduced in the notably colorful animated prologue ) even equates this with the search for the Holy Grail ( of Arthurian times ) and the Golden Fleece ( from Greek mythology ) . The highlight of the film is certainly the discovery of the bell itself and its subsequent tumble into the sea taking many of Widmark's crew along with it ( although , it's rather inconceivable how a thing of that magnitude would float after falling from such heights ) ! My verdict , therefore , may not be as harsh as that of Erickson or Poitier but there's little doubt that the amount of talent involved in THE LONG SHIPS should have made for a more significant film ; ultimately , it's enjoyable as a juvenile romp but falls short of the full-blooded thrills delivered by THE VIKINGS . Incidentally , producer Irving Allen would soon go on to make GENGHIS KHAN ( 1965 ) - another maligned international epic which , again , I've been wishing to check out for a couple of decades and which is , surprisingly enough , still unavailable on DVD . . .
Hammer House Of Horror : Witching Time ( Don Leaver , 1980 ) ( TV )	While I can't say that I was especially looking forward to this series ? considering the undeniable drop in quality during Hammer's last years ( I did , however , catch at least one memorable episode from its follow-up , HAMMER HOUSE OF MYSTERY AND SUSPENSE [ 1984 ] ) ? this one certainly sets it off to a pretty good start . Incidentally , it was unusual to have nudity in a TV show of the era , even if ? by now ? this was pretty much a Hammer requisite . Here , we get a predictable but well-handled plot involving a strained relationship accentuated by the intervention of the supernatural . The ' attacks ' on the heroine by the jealous witch and the latter's influence on her husband ( causing his descent into near-madness ) are , again , par for the course ? as is , needless to say , the witch's eventual come-uppance by virtue of the elements ( water and fire ) . The opening episode of this particular series is helped a lot by good casting ( notably Patricia Quinn as the witch ? alternating between hysteria , sensuality and menace ) and the remote countryside setting .
THE HELLBENDERS ( Sergio Corbucci , 1967 )	Watchable Italian Western set in the aftermath of the Civil War ; humorless and rather downcast ( the only notable here being a visibly tired Joseph Cotten ) but with an interesting plot , both incident-packed ( involving as it does the Cavalry , Mexican bandits and renegade Indians ! ) and twist-laden . . . although it's relatively short on the violent action typical of Spaghetti Westerns – a surprise coming from one of the genre's key figures ! As usual , the poor dubbing and full-frame presentation get in the way of one's full enjoyment of the film , but it's certainly a harmless diversion as is ( if , clearly , nowhere near the best we've seen from Corbucci or the Spaghetti Western sub-genre ) .
FOR PETE’S SAKE ( Peter Yates , 1974 )	Although I have been aware of this film for a long time , it was only after watching its amusing theatrical trailer – on THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT ( 1970 ) DVD – that I became eager to watch it . The end result proved to be a patchy affair but , nevertheless , it does have its fair share of belly-laughs and , in any case , watching Streisand in kooky mode is always fun ; Estelle Parsons and William Redfield are her hubby ( Michael Sarrazin ) ’s well-to-do and snobbish relatives who particularly look down on Streisand . It clearly emulates the screwball style of WHAT’S UP , DOC ? ( 1972 ) , parodies THE FRENCH CONNECTION ( 1971 ) – the underground station cat-and-mouse chase between Gene Hackman and Fernando Rey is performed here by a disguised Streisand and a persistent police dog ! – and it also homages Buster Keaton’s GO WEST ( 1925 ) in the urban cow stampede sequence and Luis Bunuel’s BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) in the role-playing encounters during Streisand’s disastrous stint as a call-girl ! British action director Yates was surprisingly roped in for this , but he seems to have enjoyed the experience as his next project was on similarly zany lines – the black comedy MOTHER , JUGS AND SPEED ( 1976 ; which I’ll be watching presently ) . Another notable sequence sees the heroine involved , unbeknownst to her , in terrorist activity ( she’s asked to deliver a package in disguise to a similarly-dressed woman ) – which eventually rebounds on her shady brother employers ! Similarly , one of the best lines has Streisand’s nonchalant black maid ( she hires a Hispanic woman to do her own cleaning-up ! ) who , admiring the former’s tenacity , tells her : " Girl , you could even sell a Confederate flag in Harlem ! "
FLAVIA , THE HERETIC ( Gianfranco Mingozzi , 1974 )	I first read about this " Nunsploitation " effort ? considered among the most extreme of its type ( infamously featuring a scene in which a naked girl climbs inside the hanging carcass of a cow ! ) ? in the Leslie Halliwell Film Guide , but became even more interested in checking it out in the wake of online reviews for the R1 DVD from Synapse . However , I somehow never got around to acquiring it ? chiefly because the print included was English-dubbed ? though , in retrospect , that's what the actors are speaking ( with leading lady Florinda Bolkan providing her own voice ) . Then , just last week ? coincidentally , on the very same day I acquired an even more obscure entry within the same genre ( albeit of a much-filmed source i . e . THE NUN OF MONZA [ 1969 ] ) ? I stumbled upon a copy of FLAVIA itself and , at this stage , I simply could not let the opportunity pass me by . The film's reputation for gory depictions of carnage and torture was not exaggerated but , seeing how these scenes are part and parcel of its unflinching portrayal of the Middle Ages ( stunningly shot in earthen tones by Alfio Contini ) , they do not feel gratuitous or sensationalistic ; besides , the whole comes wrapped in an evocatively beautiful soundtrack courtesy of future Oscar-winner Nicola Piovani . Bolkan , able to convey much without the benefit of dialogue , is impressive as ever : she convinces in her character's every facet ( including donning a soldier's armor ) , and this is possibly her signature role . Maria Casares ( best-known for playing Death in Jean Cocteau's ORPHEUS [ 1950 ] ) is animated and uninhibited , despite her time-ravaged looks a ' la Alida Valli : for the record , I thought she would be playing the convent's obligatory stern Mother Superior but is actually the one to inspire Flavia towards rebellion . Claudio Cassinelli appears as a Jew befriended by the heroine , whereas Anthony Corlan ( later Higgins ) ? of Hammer's 1972 outing VAMPIRE CIRCUS ? is the young leader of the Muslim invaders ( none of whom look remotely Arabic ! ) aiding the heroine in accomplishing her male / Christian-hating campaign ? until she rejects marriage and conversion to his own religion . While having undeniably greater significance and scope than most films of its ilk ( though the expected hysterical writhing is still present in the form of a wandering sect afflicted by the bite of a tarantula ! ) , plot development is curiously lacking here ? which , coupled with the trademark deliberate pacing of the " Euro-Cult " style , makes for an altogether muddled ( if never less than interesting ) affair . An unexpected touch involves fantasy sequences showing various religious paintings come to life , often as a result of the nuns ' ( typical ) sexual repression . Naturally , we get plenty of nudity and , for violent highlights , anything from numerous beheadings , the castration of a horse ( ! ) , rape , sodomy , cannibalism , boiling oil being poured on a girl's naked body , nipple-slashing , impaling and skinning alive is the order of the day ! One final thing : viewers of the Synapse edition had regretted the lack of a trailer on that disc ; incidentally , a German one has been made available among the extras accompanying the X-Rated Kult R2 DVD of the afore-mentioned THE NUN OF MONZA ?
FASCINATION ( Jean Rollin , 1979 )	This is the seventh Rollin film I've watched , after THE IRON ROSE ( 1973 ; still his finest work ) , THE DEMONIACS ( 1974 ; the least among his vintage efforts ) , LIPS OF BLOOD ( 1975 ; another good one ) , THE GRAPES OF DEATH ( 1978 ; not bad ) , THE LIVING DEAD GIRL ( 1982 ; one of his most compelling ) and Fiancée ' OF Dracula ( 2002 ; an unsatisfactory hodgepodge of ideas ) . This unusual ' lesbian vampires ' film ? of which the director made quite a few , though the only other such title I'm familiar with is the above-mentioned ( and slightly superior ) LIPS OF BLOOD ? evokes much of the same atmosphere , not only of Rollin's work but of that of Jess Franco as well . In fact , the scenes depicting a scantily-clad Brigitte Lahaie walking the castle grounds ( albeit armed with a scythe ! ) in search of victims brings to mind Lina Romay in the Spaniard's own ( rather dismal ) FEMALE VAMPIRE ( 1973 ) ! One of Rollin's traits seems to be that of throwing modern-day characters ( in this case a handsome but dumb crook ) into essentially Gothic i . e . uncanny surroundings ( the annual reunion at the château by a bunch of lovely ladies ) . The thief believes their mysterious activities to be of a sexual nature and decides to stick around , despite being warned by the two girls who came to the venue beforehand in preparation for the ' ceremony ' that the only other male likely to appear is none other than Satan himself ! Having the jaded aristocracy of another era indulge in odd rites ( such as drinking ox's blood to treat anaemia ! ) is an intriguing notion ? a group of depraved female members , then , decide to take the cure one step further and periodically resort to the intake of human blood ( the revelation isn't all that surprising , but nicely handled just the same ) . An ' unexpected ' development results when it's time to do in with the young man ( his criminal associates , who were actually pursuing him after he ran away with the stash of gold , had already been swiftly dealt with by Lahaie's scythe ) . Though the latter had already been sexually involved with him , her companion believes she has fallen in love and , when the leader of the ' vampires ' dispatches Lahaie to eliminate the thief , the other girl shoots her instead ! Lahaie stumbles outside to the passageway and , with the spilling of the girl's own blood drawing her ' anaemic ' cohorts , they feast on her indiscriminately ! The thief pleads with his savior to flee the cursed place together ? but , on relating to him their back-story , she realizes that the ' call of blood ' is too strong for her to ignore ? Inevitably , the film has all the trademarks of Rollin's style ( and , by extension , the whole " Euro-Cult " vibe ) : lethargic pace , an effective score and ? it goes without saying ? plenty of naked women ( even if , save for Lahaie's unmistakable looks , most prove interchangeable due to the film's essential dearth of characterization ! ) . All of this ensures a haunting and often beautiful piece of work though , not necessarily , a fulfilling { sic } one ; by the way , the DivX copy I acquired ( which also regrettably displayed brief instances of pixellation ) bafflingly omitted any form of credits either at the start or the conclusion ? not even the film's very title is anywhere to be seen ?
TECHNIQUE AND RITE ( TV ) ( Miklos Jancso ' , 1971 )	This was shown , along with its follow-up ROME WANTS ANOTHER CAESAR ( 1974 ; which I watched shortly thereafter ) , as part of an all-night marathon on Italian TV highlighting the Hungarian film-maker's little-seen work in Italy . Also included in this broadcast was THE PACIFIST ( 1970 ) , which I foolishly opted to miss out on in view of its inherent political disposition ( this being the era of the Vietnam War and all that ) ? when it transpired that the two would-be epics ( which I had taken to be more readily engaging ) ended up being just as concerned with this element , demonstrating an almost complete disregard for standard plot mechanics into the bargain ! In all fairness , Jancso''s best-known and widely admired film THE ROUND-UP ( 1965 ) ? with which I've also just become acquainted ? is similarly marked by a deliberate stylization which , in hindsight can be seen as the director's personal stamp . Even so , while this abstraction lent itself admirably well to the central situation of that film , here and in ROME WANTS ANOTHER CAESAR , it all feels inordinately muddled and gratuitously pretentious ( thus rendering the whole oppressive even when taking into account their considerable brevity ) ! Both these films , then , are somewhat hard to define ? and even harder to enjoy ; that said , the title of this one alone should have provided ample warning as to the picture's overtly didactic nature ! The narrative purports to deal with the barbaric exploits of Attila The Hun ( an appropriately brooding if unsympathetic figure throughout ) ? and , yet , none of the characters ever leave the remote seaside stretch of land on which the film is set or do much of anything ? with the ensuing moralizing interrupted only by the occasional ( and equally obscure ) music-infused rites ! This is not to say that the film is actually boring , however : Jancso''s visual sense here is strong indeed ( ditto for ROME WANTS ANOTHER CAESAR ) ? which , again , suggests a consistency within his oeuvre and , at the same time , undeniably emerges to be one of the director's most remarkable qualities .
WHITE FEATHER ( Robert D . Webb , 1955 )	This is one of a number of 1950s Westerns which attempted to redress the balance by painting a fairly sympathetic view of the American Indian ; even so , to spice up proceedings , we get a couple of rebels ( second lead Jeffrey Hunter among them ) opposing the impending peace treaty offered by the white man . Incidentally , though inspired by a factual incident , the film's plot line basically mingles elements from two contemporary examples of the genre ? BROKEN ARROW ( 1950 ; whose director , Delmer Daves , contributed to the script of this one ) and ARROWHEAD ( 1953 ) . With this in mind , the film doesn't really bring anything new to the table ? but , made with consummate Hollywood professionalism , the result is undeniably entertaining nonetheless . Casting is adequate , too : apart from the afore-mentioned Hunter ( though not exactly convincing as a redskin ) , we get Robert Wagner as an all-too-young Government agent hero who mediates between the two parties , Debra Paget ( in a virtual reprise of her BROKEN ARROW role and who eventually defies her people by eloping with Wagner ) , John Lund as the experienced Cavalry officer in charge , Eduard Franz as Hunter's dignified chieftain father , Hugh O'Brian ( as with Peter Graves in the same director's BENEATH THE 12-MILE REEF [ 1953 ] , a viewing of which preceded this one , he's the heroine's brash but unloved intended ) , Virginia Leith as a more mature secondary love interest for Wagner , and Emile Meyer as her racist storekeeper father . By the way , I've just taped the first cinematic adaptation of Ira Levin's thrller A KISS BEFORE DYING ( 1956 ) off Cable TV ? which I noticed shares a remarkable number of cast and crew members with the title under review ( not least its hunky stars ) ! Being a largely outdoor film and in order to supply the appropriate grandeur , Lucien Ballard's widescreen photography is rather frustratingly limited to long or medium shots ? which , when screened on a normal-sized TV set , unfortunately leads to a certain detachment on the viewer's part ; by the way , in the accompanying poster gallery on the DVD , the fact that patrons would be watching a " Cinemascope " production was deemed a bigger draw than even the stars involved ! The film culminates with an unusual sort of showdown as Hunter and O'Brian face an entire cavalry unit ( apparently an Indian battle custom which explains the film's title ) ? however , the duo's come-uppance sees the personal intervention of Franz , who's not pleased with their ' brave ' gesture ; this is then followed by a lengthy ( and , I'd even say , unwarranted ) scene in which Wagner meticulously prepares Hunter for burial . The Fox DVD includes quite a nice assortment of extras : these include a reproduction of the original pressbook ( filled with amusingly irrelevant ballyhoo ) , a reasonably comprehensive photo gallery , and a number of trailers for the studio's other catalog entries in the genre ( among them the desirable Victor Mature vehicle FURY AT FURNACE CREEK [ 1948 ] ? surprisingly narrated and carrying the personal endorsement of none other than Gregory Peck ! ? and latterday black-and-white potboiler CONVICT STAGE [ 1965 ] , which I'd never heard of myself and can't fathom why it was even deemed worthy of a DVD release ) .
CAST A GIANT SHADOW ( Melville Shavelson , 1966 )	Earnest , well-mounted but essentially dreary epic about the real-life involvement of an American Jew in the post-war struggle for Israel's independence ? thus sharing its theme with EXODUS ( 1960 ) , and clearly aiming ( but failing ) for a " Marcus Of Israel " feel ! Kirk Douglas stars as Mickey Marcus ? perhaps chosen due to the character's similarities to another historical figure forced by circumstances into leadership , Spartacus , whom Douglas had portrayed in 1960 . He's supported by an eclectic cast which includes Angie Dickinson as his neglected ( ! ) wife , Senta Berger as the Israeli girl he falls for , Topol as an ill-tempered Arab sheik , Luther Adler as a local politician , a plethora of reliable British character actors ? and even guest appearances by Frank Sinatra ( which doesn't amount to much ) , a glum Yul Brynner as a fellow freedom fighter , and John Wayne as a U . S . General whom Douglas initially falls foul of but the two eventually end up respecting one another ( still , seeing Wayne at the liberation of the Dachau concentration camp is about as incongruous as his stint playing the Roman Centurion at Christ's crucifixion in THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD [ 1965 ] ! ) . Despite a sharp script and good individual sequences , the film is compromised by its necessity to be both a spectacle and a message picture ( the WWII flashbacks , for instance , are unnecessary and merely render the film overlong ) ; unsurprisingly , it works best during the action highlights ( complemented by a typically fine Elmer Bernstein score ) . Apparently , the events have been partially fictionalized ? I wonder whether these embellishments concerned the romantic complications and the Hollywood-style ironic ending . For the record , Shavelson had started out as a scriptwriter ( and later director ) of Bob Hope and Danny Kaye vehicles ; this was his most serious effort ? a brave try , but not quite the ' giant ' film he clearly intended . . .
FORBIDDEN TO KNOW ( Nadine Marquand Trintignant , 1973 )	This is a convoluted but interesting murder mystery with political overtones ; the revelations ( verging on an ironic banality ) are presented intermittently via confessions made by a variety of characters which come as a series of flashbacks . It's aided a great deal by a splendid cast ( featuring several veterans of the French New Wave ) : Jean-Louis Trintignant , Michel Bouquet , Charles Denner , Juliet Berto , Bernadette Lafont , Marie Trintignant and Claude Pieplu ; the best performances , in my estimation , are those given by Berto and Denner , though the scenes involving the two Trintignants have an obvious intimacy about them as to make them quite special ( this film was a real family affair , as it was directed by the wife of one and the mother of the other ! ) . Composer Bruno Nicolai also adds a valuable contribution to the fray with his good score .
THE FRISCO KID ( Robert Aldrich , 1979 )	Aldrich's penultimate film is an odd and mildly interesting Western which , given its unlikely alliance between Polish rabbi Gene Wilder and young robber Harrison Ford , actually ties in nicely with the various buddy-buddy Spaghetti Westerns I've been going through this past week or so ! Still , the two-hour running-time is too great to sustain its rambling but , ultimately , pointless narrative ( Wilder goes through many a misadventure , including being mistaken for Ford's accomplice and then having to depend on him for survival , on his long voyage ) and few elements of the typical Western fare are utilized in any significant way ( despite trains , banks , shoot-outs , posses , Indians , etc . ) - though the landscapes are pleasant enough . Wilder's characteristically energetic performance helps a lot ; Ford , however , is both too young and too modern for this type of role ( according to Wilder's autobiography , it was originally intended for John Wayne ! ) .
Virgin	This earlier film from Breillat is a typically truthful look at a foul-mouthed teenager's quest to lose her virginity ; this time , the film's restraint in what it shows is understandable because it is dealing with an under-aged character but the Lolita-esquire aspects of the story ( particularly apparent in the girl's love-hate relationship with her older brother's mature friend ) are still effectively rendered . The film does not shrink from honing in on what the main character is truly after and ends just a few moments after she succeeds in reaching her goal . It also takes time to show that her parents are helplessly ineffective in containing their reckless daughter and distracting her from her single-minded quest to blossom into a woman before her time .
FANTOZZI ( Luciano Salce , 1975 )	This film is a veritable milestone in the history of Italian film comedy and was the start of a series of 10 outings ( which spanned nearly 25 years ) featuring the hapless titular character , the epitome of a working-class underdog ( who had been introduced in novel form by star / co-writer Paolo Villaggio himself ) ; in itself , while patchy overall , it's still the second best in the entire series . Here we are introduced to the characters which would reappear throughout the series : Fantozzi's frumpy wife ( which would eventually be played , from the third entry onwards , by Luis Bunuel regular Milena Vukotic ) , his hideous daughter who looks more like a monkey ( actually played a boy - subsequently a man - in drag ! ) ; his overbearing colleagues - the ever-optimistic myopic organizer ( Gigi Reder ) , the playboy figure who's arrogant to his peers but utterly complacent to his superiors ( Giuseppe Anatrelli ) , the free-spirited woman ( Anna Mazzamauro ) whom he desires but who's really quite unattractive herself ; the employers , as befits the satiric nature of the films , are depicted as near deities with their offices fitted with armchairs in human skin and in whose aquariums swim a selected number of ' lucky ' employees ! ! The first entry has its fair share of memorably comic sequences : the football game during a thunderstorm between single and married men , Fantozzi's recurring mystical visions which invariably occur after having incurred a particularly heavy physical blow , the road rage sequence featuring a confrontation with a gang of thugs , the billiard game in which Fantozzi , after much verbal abuse , turns the tables on his superior and eventually kidnaps the latter's love-struck mother as security against his vengeance and a scene at a Japanese restaurant where , among other calamities , samurai are lopping off the limbs of those customers who are not appreciative of their cuisine ! !
MIDWAY ( Jack Smight , 1976 )	In the vein of THE LONGEST DAY ( 1962 ) and BATTLE OF THE BULGE ( 1965 ) , this one’s basically the equivalent of BATTLE OF Britain ( 1969 ) – as well as a sort of companion piece to TORA ! TORA ! TORA ! ( 1970 ) . For this reason , it tries hard to be as authentic and detailed as possible ( with stock footage of the real WWII battle and constant captions indicating names of places , vehicles and personnel ) but then doesn’t allow much acting opportunity to its star-studded cast : with this in mind , the contribution of James Coburn ( as an officer who mistrusts the information denoting Midway as a probable enemy target ) , Robert Mitchum ( more on his character later ) , Cliff Robertson ( as Heston’s former buddy and superior to his pilot son ) and Robert Wagner ( as Commander Henry Fonda’s aide ) results in being especially negligible . Charlton Heston is the nominal lead : he’s seen having problems with son Edward Albert over the latter’s inopportune relationship with a Japanese girl ( when the latter continues to mope about his personal situation , Heston snaps in his inimitable fashion : " You better shape up , Tiger , or some hotshot Jap pilot's gonna flame your ass ! " ) . Henry Fonda is , as ever , the authoritative figure – playing the Admiral in charge of the defense operation at Midway ; Glenn Ford is Mitchum’s low-ranking replacement ( the latter appears as the well-known Admiral Halsey , who’s been confined to hospital due to a skin disease : apparently , the bulky and notoriously laid-back actor could have chosen to play any real-life character involved but deliberately opted for this thankless role – even so , he lends a welcome dose of humor to the proceedings , especially when he rebukes Ford , who wants to shake Mitchum’s hand for displaying the utmost confidence in him , with " You want us to lose the war ? ! " ) . Hal Holbrook is the enthusiastic old-timer who first detects , through a coded message , the Japs’ intention to attack Midway ; Robert Webber is the Commander of one of the three U . S . cruisers who see action during the famous and decisive battle . Monte Markham is the intelligence officer whom Heston approaches to intervene for the Japanese girl and her parents , who have been detained ; Christopher George is unrecognizable in the cock-pit as one of the leaders of the various flying squadrons involved in the dogfight sequences . Toshiro Mifune and James Shigeta are the most renowned actors on the Japanese side ( one can notice the effort they all did to speak their lines in English ! ) – the country’s defeat at Midway was clearly the result of over-confidence ( brought on by a previous victory , albeit a sneak attack , at Pearl Harbor ) and constant bad judgment on the part of the officers concerned . Incidentally , just for the record , the film features three actors from the cast of THE YAKUZA ( 1974 ) – which I’ve just watched – namely Mitchum , Shigeta and Christina Kokubo ( Albert’s girl ) . The various strategies by which the battle was fought maintain reasonable interest throughout , and the action sequences – which virtually take up the last third of the running-time – are certainly spectacular enough . Hell , even the domestic asides emerge to be less distracting than I had anticipated ( though the same can’t be said of the few scenes from the so-called " TV version " of the film included among the DVD supplements , which introduce the useless character of Heston’s much-younger girlfriend ! ) ; having said that , this added footage does dwell a little on Heston's inability to fly due to a hand injury ( which , of course , has a bearing on his eventual fate ) . In the long run , however , I feel that MIDWAY comes across a bit stiff as entertainment .
Masters Of Horror : The Screwfly Solution ( TV ) ( Joe Dante , 2006 )	THE SCREWFLY SOLUTION is my fourth venture into this promising TV series and what attracted me primarily to this particular episode was the involvement of Joe Dante ( whom I often saw – and even spoke to twice – during the 61st Venice Film Festival in 2004 ) ; however , the fact that a hunk – BEVERLY HILLS 90210’s Jason Priestley – was going to be the lead didn’t seem too promising on paper and , in fact , the recurring steamy sex scenes ( while related to the theme of the episode ) almost made it seem like something out of the RED SHOE DIARIES series at times ! Still , Priestley’s bedfellow – Briton Kerry Norton – gives a good performance , is the real protagonist of the story and , ultimately , the best thing about it ; Elliott Gould is also on hand to offer fine support as Priestley’s scientific partner and , eventually , together with Norton , one of the last untainted earthly survivors . Unfortunately , the theme – the male population is infected by a virus which makes them viciously exterminate every female they come across indiscriminately – while interesting and engrossing in itself is just too similar to that of 28 DAYS LATER ( 2002 ) and its sequel , 28 WEEKS LATER ( 2007 ) ; besides , its resemblance to the screwfly’s predicament is tenuous at best ( though the revelation as to the source of the epidemic is interesting ) .
MIKEY AND NICKY ( Elaine May , 1976 )	A strange film to come from a woman film-maker and one best-known for comedy at that ; its rough , intense quality makes it feel more like one of co-star John Cassavetes ' own radical works and , in fact , around this same time made one of his finest films - THE KILLING OF A Chinese BOOKIE ( 1976 ) - which incidentally also deals with the trials and tribulations of a small-time crook ( played by Ben Gazzara ) who unwisely takes on the mob . The film under review is buoyed by two excellent performances from Peter Falk and Cassavetes who , for the most part , are the only people on screen ; however , Ned Beatty is also notable as a beleaguered hit-man . The film , however , can't make up its mind whether to be an existential neo-noir gangster melodrama or a perverse , eccentric inversion of a " buddy " movie ! Cassavetes ' come-uppance at the very end is arguably the film's highlight and , interestingly , it was shot by veteran cinematographer Lucien Ballard who , among others , had previously shot THE RISE AND FALL OF LEGS DIAMOND ( 1960 ) a fine gangster picture and Budd Boetticher's Hollywood swan song . May herself would go on to direct just one more film , the unfairly maligned ISHTAR ( 1987 ; see review above ) ; having watched her delightful debut , A NEW LEAF ( 1971 ; in which she also starred ) , I've only got THE HEARTBREAK KID ( 1972 ) left to catch up with ( though I did miss a number of Cable TV screenings over here several years ago ) .
THE SORCERER'S APPRENTICE ( Michael Powell , 1955 )	This is a ballet short by Michael Powell - " devised and designed " by Hein Heckroth - in the style of THE RED SHOES ( 1948 ) and THE TALES OF Hoffman ( 1951 ) . During the Audio Commentary for the latter , it was stated that Powell was very much influenced by the animated films of Walt Disney ; this short is certainly evidence of that , since the Disney Studios had tackled the same Goethe story in the most famous segment from FANTASIA ( 1940 ) - though the celebrated Paul Dukas score that's become synonymous with it wasn't utilized here ! Despite the considerable talent on display , however , the overall concept of the short is too modest to favorably compare - and , perhaps , it shouldn't be - with the boundless imagination that is afforded by a cartoon , or the sheer charm of the Disney classic itself . The film is , in any case , compromised by the unsuitable widescreen format and the fact that it was shortened from 30 to 13 minutes !
Snow White And The Three Stooges ( Walter Lang , 1961 )	Lavish if overlong version of the popular fairy-tale ( most famously incarnated on screen via the 1937 Walt Disney animated milestone ) which incorporates a skating star ( whose numbers go on forever ) , the comic trio's brand of violent slapstick ( replacing the Seven Dwarfs ? though they feel constrained by the material , much like the Laurel & Hardy of THE BOHEMIAN GIRL [ 1936 ] and SWISS MISS [ 1938 ] ) and saccharine songs ; the familiar plot is further enlivened by an amiable ventriloquist act and numerous swashbuckling routines . It's colorful and pleasant ? certainly more enjoyable than I had anticipated , and wholly undeserving of Leonard Maltin's unflattering BOMB rating ? emerging , all in all , to be perfect unassuming entertainment for the festive season . Guy Rolfe and Patricia Medina convey appropriate comic-book villainy in their respective roles ( each receive their just desserts in memorable fashion ? but while his is particularly gruesome , hers is done in a rather clever way ) ; burly Buddy Baer is their evil henchman who subsequently has a change of heart . Incidentally , this was the first of five belated feature films starring The Three Stooges ? the others being the equally improbable THE THREE STOOGES MEET HERCULES ( 1962 ) , THE THREE STOOGES IN ORBIT ( 1962 ) , THE THREE STOOGES GO AROUND THE WORLD IN A DAZE ( 1963 ) and THE OUTLAWS IS COMING ( 1965 ) . Frank Tashlin is said to have contributed to the film under review but , at any rate , the producers involved did have their hearts in the right place by employing director Lang ( whose last effort this proved be ) ? having been responsible for the splendid Shirley Temple fantasy vehicle THE BLUE BIRD ( 1940 ) ? and screenwriter Noel Langley ? who had co-scripted the classic MGM version of THE WIZARD OF OZ ( 1939 ) . By the way , this viewing of SNOW WHITE AND THE THREE STOOGES came in anticipation of my acquiring a 2-Disc collection of the comic trio's vintage shorts . . .
SOLDIER OF FORTUNE ( Edward Dmytryk , 1955 )	This typically glossy Fox production from the 1950s , hinging on equal parts star power and exotic locations , was another title I had missed out on several times along the years ; after its recent SE DVD release , I made it a point to catch up with the film next time around . Anyway , for an adventure film , it's rather talky and , even if just 96 minutes long , it devotes too much attention to irrelevant subplots involving secondary characters ( including gruff bar owner Tom Tully and a comeback role for former Swedish star Anna Sten ) to the ultimate detriment of major ones : in fact , Susan Hayward ? who gets to interact with most of the cast ? is given more screen-time than Clark Gable ( which is even more surprising when one remembers that this was Gable's first non-MGM film in 20 years ! ) and , in spite of their billing , both Michael Rennie and Gene Barry don't have a lot to do until the climax ( though , in the latter's case , it's understandable as he's a prisoner in the hands of Communist China ) . With respect to the narrative itself ( Ernest K . Gann adapted his own novel for the screen ) , the film seems to fall between several stools ? action , romance , politics ? but , with its eye firmly on the box-office , this superficial and sometimes contrived approach ends up satisfying no one . That said , it's a generally entertaining ride ? and Dmytryk handles the proceedings in an efficient , if highly impersonal , manner . In the end , I'd say that SOLDIER OF FORTUNE is the least of the 3 Fox titles released as part of the rather expensive " The Clark Gable Collection " ? the others being William Wellman's THE CALL OF THE WILD ( 1935 ) and Raoul Walsh's THE TALL MEN ( 1955 ; disappointingly , this is the only one not to feature an accompanying Audio Commentary ) .
SINS OF THE BORGIAS ( Christian-Jaque , 1953 )	This reasonably well-mounted and quite stylish historical saga features impeccable period detail but , unfortunately , fizzles out in the second half – emerging to be rather uneven overall . Besides , it doesn’t rise to the full potential offered by its famous ( and much-filmed ) events – especially given the fact that the character of Lucretia has been considerably whitewashed ! Still , the court intrigue is more interesting than the romance – but the pageantry is rather splendid , and there’s plenty of exciting action throughout ( including a manhunt a ' la THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME [ 1932 ] ) . The casting , too , is exemplary : Martine Carol is an ideal Lucretia ( she went on to portray another famous ‘courtesan’ in Max Ophuls’ sublime LOLA MONTES [ 1955 ] ) ; a dashing Massimo Serato ; a rather subdued Pedro Armendariz as Cesare Borgia ; an impressively slinky Arnoldo Foa ' as Cesare’s resourceful lieutenant ; rugged Christian Marquand and an impossibly young Maurice Ronet as two of Lucretia’s ill-fated conquests ; a blink-and-you’ll-miss-him Howard Vernon as a vicar ; Valentine Tessier as a wealthy eccentric ( she had been Madame Bovary in Jean Renoir’s 1933 version ) ; and Pieral , the psychoanalyst dwarf from Luis Bunuel’s THAT OBSCURE OBJECT OF DESIRE ( 1977 ) , who provides amusing but somewhat misplaced comic relief . For the record , the following are the other films I’ve watched centering around this infamous noble family : Mitchell Leisen’s BRIDE OF VENGEANCE ( 1948 ) , Henry King’s PRINCE OF FOXES ( 1949 ; recently released on DVD ) ; and Sergio Corbucci’s much-inferior remake of THE MAN WHO LAUGHS ( 1966 ) . One I’d love to check out is Abel Gance’s LUCREZIA BORGIA ( 1935 ; also available on disc through Image ) .
THE SINS OF RACHEL CADE ( Gordon Douglas , 1961 )	Tolerable romantic / exotic / religious melodrama from producer Henry Blanke , who had earlier been responsible for the more acclaimed THE NUN'S STORY and the more popular THE MIRACLE ( both 1959 ) . As a matter of fact , this basically extends the African scenes of the former's second half to take up its entire length but , at the same time , incorporating the emotional / vocational struggle inherent in the latter ? and , for good measure , the male stars of each ( Peter Finch and Roger Moore respectively ) were brought on board for this new venture as well ! Anyway , the titular figure is played , quite convincingly , by Angie Dickinson ; as for her co-stars , Finch is typically commanding but one has a hard time believing Moore as either a flyer ( the setting the eve of WWII ) or a doctor ( and it is clear he did not take the part seriously himself ) ! The most prominent among the indigenous community are ' holy man ' Juano Hernandez ( who holds his own against Finch in the acting stakes ) and ' medicine man ' Woody Strode ( whose contribution is , alas , rather limited ) . The narrative takes a thoroughly predictable but pleasing route ? with earnest ( and luscious ) Dickinson having as hard a time convincing agnostic Governor Finch of the true faith as the superstitious natives ? but the ' miracle ' finally occurs when she cures a local boy , whom Hernandez and Strode had already given up for dead because his father had dared defy the gods ! Similarly , when Moore's dashing but uncommitted character turns up in the second half , conflict naturally arises between him and Finch over the heroine ( since both have no qualms about showing their feelings to the missionary girl ) ! The denouement , then , is as unlikely ( with spiritual grace taking the upper hand over basic human fulfillment ) as it is melodramatic , but that's Hollywood for you . While unsurprisingly meandering somewhat over the course of its generous two-hour length , the film emerges a good-looking and mildly enjoyable effort very typical of the time ? also marked by a lush score courtesy of veteran Max Steiner ( that is perhaps exceedingly reminiscent of his Oscar-winning theme from NOW , VOYAGER [ 1942 ] ! ) . Incidentally , while the full title of this one smacks of exploitation which is barely present in the film proper , the print shown on TCM UK actually dropped the heroine's foibles and left us with just her name ? an alternate moniker under which , however , it seems never to have been shown until now !
SON DE MAR ( Bigas Luna , 2001 )	Yet another film with an illicit affair at its centre - I recently watched MATCH POINT ( 2005 ) , DAMAGE ( 1992 ) and LA SEDUZIONE ( 1973 ) - though this is actually a variation on a much-used plot line which dates back to MY FAVORITE WIFE ( 1940 ) , in which one half of a married couple is thought dead and , on returning several years later , finds the partner now belongs to a new family . As is to be expected from director Luna , the emphasis this time around is on eroticism - though it's not particularly graphic - and , here , leading lady Leonor Watling at least serves this purpose supremely well ! Still , the decision to embellish the love-making with a purportedly poetic touch - in the form of the scholarly hero's recital of a suggestive elegy to the sea - ends up being a misfire , for the simple reason that the repetition serves only to render the whole somewhat monotonous ! The film isn't bad but the narrative ( courtesy of screenwriter Rafael Azcona , once valued collaborator to cult Italian film-maker Marco Ferreri ) is just too predictable to generate much involvement from the viewer . The finale - in which the two lovers decide to leave everything behind them and sail away ( on the boat which bears the film's name ) to a new life together - adheres to the ideal of l ' amour fou , but Luna and Azcona opt for an ironic double-twist instead ! In essence , SON DE MAR is not as intriguing as the only other Bigas Luna title I've watched - THE CHAMBERMAID OF THE TITANIC ( 1997 ) - but I should be checking out at least one more film of his ( BAMBOLA [ 1996 ] ) fairly soon . . . which now makes me regret all the more having missed an Italian-TV showing of VOLAVERUNT ( 1999 ) a few months back !
MOTHER , JUGS AND SPEED ( Peter Yates , 1976 )	To the 1970s , nothing was sacred – so , we had a string of black comedies / satires about army surgeons ( M . A . S . H . [ 1970 ] ) or the goings-on at a big-city hospital ( THE HOSPITAL [ 1971 ] ) and , in this film’s case , ambulance-drivers . However , another thing these films had in common is that , amid the jokes , there was something serious being said – and things often took an unexpected tragic turn ( as in the scene here where a call to a gun-toting junkie sees a young hospital attendant being blown away when he tries to reason with her ! ) ; another is the one in which a woman in labor , denied access to a hospital’s facilities due to the proverbial red tape , delivers her baby inside the ambulance and dies because the " rig " is ill-equipped to deal with massive haemorrhaging ! The men ( and women ) themselves are depicted as having a detached , even flippant , attitude to their sensitive profession – but we’re told that this is needed if one is to keep his sanity ; still , there are those who overstep the line of decency ( one attendant allows his green partner to drive the ambulance , when it had previously been his sole prerogative , so as to be alone with the unconscious and good-looking patient ! ) . Other gags , however , are more typical : for instance , the scene where they have difficulty transporting a large black woman down a flight of stairs – which predictably ends with her slipping out of their grasp and scurrying down the street on a stretcher , miraculously dodging the oncoming traffic – brought tears to my eyes . A topical subplot , then , involves the rivalry between ambulance companies whose members would go to extreme lengths to intercept or otherwise stall their opponents – the issue is ultimately resolved in court by suggesting a merger between the two . Though the film is somewhat uneven , it’s well served by the cast ( incidentally , several films from this era opted to use monikers in connection with their protagonists for a title , such as the recently-viewed road movie DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY [ 1974 ] ) : Bill Cosby ( as " Mother " , a seasoned driver everyone looks up to ) ; Raquel Welch ( " Jugs " , the secretary who wishes to be an ambulance driver and takes night school to acquire the requisite training – her first unofficial job proves memorable as a police car gallantly offers to escort her but , having no address , leads them on a wild goose chase until a colleague she unwittingly absconded with improvises a patient’s get-up ! ) ; the latter , then , is Harvey Keitel ( a former cop suspended for drug-dealing , which earns him the nickname " Speed " – at first glance , the Method actor seems out of his element here but wisely plays it straight most of the time ) ; Allen Garfield shines as the loud-mouth yet flustered director ; and equally effective is Larry Hagman , naturally playing the biggest scumbag of the lot ( the afore-mentioned lecherous driver who even gambles as to how many lives are lost per day – which causes Cosby to physically assault him when he wants to add Bruce Davison , the attendant who fell in the line of duty , to the list ) and who , during the climax , suddenly reappears at his former workplace armed with a gun and making demands ( having gone berserk in the interim ) . . . only to be pinned down with a bullet fired by an over-eager cop .
THE TRIUMPH OF MICHAEL STROGOFF ( Viktor Tourjansky , 1961 )	This is a rare instance of a prequel from this era in cinema and , even more so , an international production : in 1956 , Curd Jurgens had appeared in an adaptation of Jules Verne’s " Michel Strogoff " – revolving around the adventures of a valiant and legendary Russian warrior . Now , I say this is a prequel because in the ‘original’ the protagonist is blinded – this , then , would seem to be a ( probably fictionalized ) previous mission of his . Anyway , I recall watching Jurgens’ first Strogoff film on a now-defunct Sicilian TV channel as a kid ; I guess I had enjoyed it back then and , in fact , I’d like to re-acquaint myself with it . . . particularly on the strength of this one , which proved a surprisingly efficient – if rather stodgy and decidedly overlong – affair . The plot of Russians-vs . - Arabs isn’t particularly exciting or novel ; what holds the interest is Strogoff’s ambivalent relationship with both a famous singer ( Capucine – who’s eventually revealed as a half-caste , therefore a spy ) and the arrogant , impetuous Russian prince ( whom the Empress has personally asked experienced officer Jurgens to keep under control and which , naturally , leads to many a clash over the military tactics to adopt in the campaign – including the treatment of prisoners ) . With a traitor in their midst and the systematic depletion of transport , equipment and rations ( the camels , fitted with poisoned needles , are being killed off ! ) , the prince is forced to capitulate and subsequently held captive in an Arab fortress . However , the resourceful Strogoff organizes a wild rescue attempt – he’s to infiltrate the prison armed with explosives and , at his signal , the Russian forces deployed outside the city walls will charge ; needless to say , the ruse pays off – signaling Strogoff’s " triumph " and supplying the requisite action climax to the film . By the end of it , the prince is humbled . . . while Capucine discovers that her love for Jurgens is stronger than her loathing of the Russians ; the viewpoint is a romanticized one , then , but one hardly expected otherwise from a product designed for mass consumption as this clearly was ! Incidentally , I should be getting presently to another Russian epic ( but made in Italy rather than France ) from the same director i . e . THE COSSACKS ( 1960 ) . . .
DON'T LOSE YOUR HEAD ( Gerald Thomas , 1966 )	I've only watched 8 of the long-running and hugely popular " Carry On " films ; their overall quality is quite patchy , but the most consistently entertaining so far have been CARRY ON . . . UP THE KHYBER ( 1968 ) and CARRY ON HENRY ( 1971 ) . This one was actually in the same vein as the latter i . e . a period romp and , in fact , I find their brand of bawdy humor works best in this environment - not only because it allows for a contrast between modern times and the era being lampooned ( including , in this case , parlor entertainment that features a minstrel tune whose chorus is lifted from The Beatles ' " She Loves You " ! ) but also because it gives the low-budget films a semblance of grandeur not possible with their outings having contemporary settings . I decided to check this film before others in the series ( happily , my local DVD rental outlet carries a handful of them ) because I'm currently going through a bit of a swashbuckling phase as part of my Christmas marathon . Anyway , it's an extremely typical offering ( despite dropping the " Carry On " from the title , though it did get renamed CARRY ON PIMPERNEL for the U . S . ) that obviously deals with the French Revolution , which is being thwarted by a Scarlet Pimpernel-type figure who calls himself " The Black Fingernail " and leaves as his calling card a drawing with the " Up Yours ! " gesture : the overall effect is hit-or-miss and the pace rather sluggish for what should essentially be a zippy adventure - but the host of practiced regulars from the series are in good form , thus ensuring the occasional hilarious moment or quip ( usually for this gang , these would be double entendres and even include asides to the audience ! ) .
NIGHT OF THE SKULL ( Jesus Franco , 1973 )	This is a rare example of a period giallo , and an interesting one ; not tremendously suspenseful and quite predictable in the long run , but certainly enjoyable along the way ( with welcome touches of humor from time to time ) . It was supposedly adapted from John Willard's " The Cat And The Canary " , erroneously attributed to Edgar Allan Poe on the credit titles ( though this was probably done strictly for commercial purposes ! ) . The pace is somewhat lethargic but the atmosphere is well enough caught , accentuated by a slightly unnerving score , frenzied cross-cutting and some weird images ( the assassin's ' costume ' itself and the first claustrophobic murder ) . The casting is effective , though I wasn't familiar with too many of the actors : from Lina Romay and Antonio Mayans as the young couple to the various conniving members of the family ( including William Berger ) and various other interlopers ( like the Police Chief who always forgets to pick up his sombrero when he leaves , and Franco himself as a drunken ' lawyer ' ) . This is my first Lina Romay film : frankly she seems so young it's hard to believe she would soon be appearing in films that would border on the hardcore ( this film's only perverse erotic charge is delivered by the scene where the sleeping Romay , nude of course , is beaten up by her tipsy and jealous step-mother with a belt ) ! The concept of a series of murder methods lifted from a passage in the Apocalypse is an interesting one , though the death-by-fire itself is pretty unconvincingly staged . All things considered , a minor Franco but one I wouldn't mind revisiting in future .
FOUR FRIGHTENED PEOPLE { Edited Re-Release Version } ( Cecil B . DeMille , 1934 )	Good-looking but rather disappointing film for a DeMille in exotic vein although , to be fair , the version I watched was pared down from the original 95 minutes to 78 . Still , a few Pre-Code touches remain ( notably Claudette Colbert's nude bathing scene ) , along with the standard action of jungle adventure fare and a genuinely cringe-inducing encounter with a cobra . Handling is typically stilted for a product from the early Talkie era , and the cast interesting yet variable : Colbert , initially dowdy as a geography teacher ( ! ) but gradually " blossoming " into womanhood to the initial consternation ? and eventual rivalry ? of rugged newspaperman William Gargan and middle-aged but essentially decent Herbert Marshall ( stifled by his high-society marriage ) . The last member of the titular group is Mary Boland in an unlikely role as an expert on indigenous culture , and also on hand is Leo Carrillo as an affable native guide . Incidentally , this is one of a handful of films by the larger-than-life director I'll be watching in order to commemorate the 50th anniversary of his death ( which actually fell on January 21st ) .
L'Istruttoria E ' Chiusa : Dimentichi ( Tante Sbarre ) ( Damiano Damiani , 1971 )	This poliziottesco of sorts isn't quite what I was expecting as lead Franco Nero's plight is only one of several events tackled in the film . The star is ideally cast as a wronged prisoner ; however , Riccardo Cucciolla's paranoid character grows in importance in the film's second half . The initial stages are actually akin to bizarre black comedy ( detailing all the various eccentric antics of the inmates ) , which doesn't quite jell with the more serious tone later on ; John Steiner ( as a despicable lifer ) and Georges Wilson ( as a dying old-timer ) make a particular impression during this first part . The film - whose translated title , " The Case Is Closed : Forget It " , is no better than that of the novel " Many Bars " on which it's based - depicts everybody as corrupt and reprehensible , with even Nero's everyman hero succumbing in the end ( indulging in clandestine sexual encounters with a female inmate and keeping silent over Cucciolla's harrowing murder ) ! Though the score is by Ennio Morricone , it's nothing like the iconic work by the maestro we all know and love - consisting solely of sound effects ( in fact , I had first heard of the film by way of a CD featuring some of his oddest soundtracks ) ! This was Nero's third of four films he made with director Damiani , all in the same vein ; two of them , which I hadn't watched before either , followed this viewing ( I had caught up with HOW TO KILL A JUDGE [ 1974 ] , recently released on R1 DVD by Blue Underground and perhaps the most satisfactory of them , a couple of years ago ) .
Fantastic Four : Rise Of The Silver Surfer ( Tim Story , 2007 )	While slightly superior to the original , this is still essentially bland and juvenile stuff ? and entirely forgettable once it's over . The film is obviously a special effects bonanza and sees the emergence of a new anti-hero ( as opposed to an out-and-out villain ? that requirement is filled by the reappearance of the Four's old nemesis , Dr . Von Doom , with whom they're forced to collaborate in order to ' understand ' the Silver Surfer ! ) . Certainly the most novel and engaging element about the plot is the fact that , on contact with the alien , our superheroes are able to exchange ' gifts ' . On the debit side , the Surfer's ominous ruler is a big disappointment when it finally makes its very belated appearance , the military personnel are pompous and downright obnoxious ( ditto Chris Evans ' relentless strutting and inane antics ) but , thankfully , Jessica Alba is on hand to provide the redeeming and expected eye candy .
CARRY ON AGAIN DOCTOR ( Gerald Thomas , 1969 )	Being the third outing in the series to be set against a medical backdrop , I was fully expecting this to be a tired rehash of old gags and ideas ; however , I found it quite an agreeable latter-day entry ? if still essentially second-tier material . The cast sees Kenneth Williams , Hattie Jacques and Jim Dale in more or less similar roles as its predecessor CARRY ON DOCTOR ( 1967 ) ; on the other hand , Sid James , Joan Sims , Charles Hawtrey and Barbara Windsor play different characters . Also , the mid-section of the film reverts to a tropical island setting ( to which Dale has been assigned as a punishment , and where wily orderly James is stationed ? though , even in such remote surroundings , he manages to keep up-to-date with English soccer results via coded drum-playing from the natives ! ) . Some of the best gags involve Dale's accident-prone antics at the hospital early on ( including his examination of scantily-clad starlet Windsor ) and the latter stages set in Dale's private clinic ( James has devised a concoction which turns out to be an effective slimming treatment ? subsequently exploited by Dale under the patronage of wealthy Sims ) , which also sees Hawtrey once again in drag ( he's a doctor who's jealous of Dale and has infiltrated the clinic on a mission for Dale's ex-superior / now-rival Williams ) . Series regular Peter Butterworth only has one wacky scene ; other bits highlight Wilfrid Brambell ( uncredited as an eccentric patient ) , lovely Valerie Leon ( as Dale's sultry secretary ) and future Mrs . Michael Caine Shakira Baksh ( as a native-girl who successfully undertakes James ' miraculous cure ) .
CARRY ON CAMPING ( Gerald Thomas , 1969 )	This is perhaps the quintessential " Carry On " film , which also means that it's terribly dated when viewed today ! That said , it's quite funny scene by scene ? even if the plot itself is alarmingly thin and disjointed . In fact , it follows three separate narrative threads during the first half which then come together : one involving Sid James and Bernard Bresslaw and their girlfriends , sisters Joan Sims and Dilys Laye ; another with bickering couple Terry Scott and Betty Marsden , who pick up annoying drifter Charles Hawtrey along the way ; and the members of a finishing school ( including perky Barbara Windsor ) and led by the series ' all-too-typically reserved authority figures ? namely Kenneth Williams and Hattie Jacques . With this film , the bawdiness which has since become synonymous with the series really took off ? beginning with the very opening sequence , which finds James et al in a cinema showing a documentary about a nudist campsite ! ; a scene in which James and Bresslaw spy on the women's baths through a hole in the wall was subsequently much imitated . Many of the film's best moments highlight Terry Scott ? exaggerating his afternoon activity when asked by the wife how it was , knowing full well she isn't lending him the slightest attention ; his encounter with a bull in a field ; at the end , when he takes stock of the situation in his tent and forcibly throws out Hawtrey . Popular British starlet Valerie Leon , who appeared in a number of " Carry Ons " , has a bit here as a salesgirl . By the way , CARRY ON CAMPING was trimmed by the BBFC on its original release ; ironically , it ended up being the highest grossing film of the year in the U . K . !
THE GUN AND THE PULPIT ( TV ) ( Daniel Petrie , 1974 )	Of the various Westerns included in the 2-Discer I rented in order to view THE JACKALS ( 1967 ) , this made-for-TV outing seemed to me to be the least promising or , if you will , the most disposable . However , it seemed silly to me to consciously pass on it as long as it was in my hands and , funnily enough , it turned out to be the most satisfactory of the lot ! The cast list was decent enough , actually – Slim Pickens , Geoffery Lewis , Jeff Corey and Estelle Parsons – so I had that to look forward to from the outset . However , it was the winsome performances of the youngsters – Marjoe Gortner and Pamela Sue Martin – which was the most pleasant surprise . The latter was familiar to me from THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE ( 1972 ) and her signature role of Fallon Carrington Colby in the TV-series DYNASTY ( 1981-84 ) but the former I only had vague knowledge of i . e . that he appeared in the disaster epic EARTHQUAKE ( 1974 ) and the notorious Euro-Cult item , STARCRASH ( 1979 ; which , incidentally , I recently acquired as a DivX ) . Gortner’s amiable personality – playing a hounded gunfighter opportunistically taking on the identity of a dead parson in a one-horse town – managed to carry the film throughout its brisk 74-minute running time . Frankly , the above-mentioned character actors don’t have all that much to do in the film – apart from Slim Pickens who appears as Gortner’s cynical observer of a sidekick – but Geoffrey Lewis scores as another famed gunfighter out to take Gortner in a face-to-face shootout which sees both duellists missing each other ( out of respect for one another ) !
History Of The World Part I ( Mel Brooks , 1981 )	I had watched this as a kid , a popular but not highly-regarded Brooks effort . It is wildly uneven but , also , undeniably funny at times ( even if most of the gags are , unsurprisingly , of the vulgar kind ) . Brooks managed to rope in Orson Welles to provide indifferent narration over his lampoon of various historical eras ( the film's one-liners , too , read better than they play ) . Still , " The Stone Age " ( featuring Sid Caesar ) offers a nice parody of the " Dawn Of Man " sequence from Stanley Kubrick's 2001 : A SPACE ODYSSEY ( 1968 ) ? while the brief but hilarious " The Old Testament " sees Brooks himself as Moses accidentally lose a third of God's original 15 Commandments ! " The Roman Empire " ? the longest segment ? features Brooks veterans Dom De Luise and Madeleine Kahn , the film's single best joke ( the Senators ' spontaneous reply , in unison , to a fellow members ' concern over the plight of the city's poor ) , plus wonderful conclusion involving John Hurt as Jesus Christ . " The Spanish Inquistion " is , again , brief but surely one of the film's highlights with its tastelessly inspired depiction of this infamous period as a Busby Berkeley-ish production number ( though Brooks ' typical Jewish jokes seem baffling in this context ) . Just as Monty Python had done the definitive parody of the Roman Empire with LIFE OF BRIAN ( 1979 ) , " The French Revolution " follows on from the " Carry On " gang's DON'T LOSE YOUR HEAD ( 1966 ) . The results are just as middling ( involving the inevitable impersonation of the King by a commoner ) ? but highlighting two established presences in Brooks ' films , Harvey Korman and Cloris Leachman . Easily the funniest bit from this segment is the King's outrageous shooting practice . Still , at the end of the day , Brooks can't avoid repeating himself : the " Walk This Way " gag from YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN ( 1974 ) turns up here as well ; Brooks ' lecherous French king is virtually a copy of his Governor characterization in the Western spoof BLAZING SADDLES ( 1974 ) ; and the surreal nick-of-time escape at the very end , which also derives from the latter film .
THE LIVING COFFIN ( Fernando Mendez , 1958 )	This is a weird amalgam of Gothic horror elements with the Western genre , also interesting for being shot in color . The 71-minute film emerges to be a generally likable curiosity that , with an engaging ( even complex ) plot , evokes affectionate memories of American ' B ' serials from the previous decade ? though , ultimately , it's marred by a lethargic pace and , when finally exposed , a trio of uninteresting villains . Gaston Santos , a famous bullfighter , plays the hero ; he's flanked by his resourceful steed and a chubby , perennially sleepy sidekick ( initially amusing , he soon becomes overbearing ? especially when his antics are accompanied by incongruous ' comic ' sound effects ! ) . Unfortunately , too , the star is engaged throughout in some extremely fake fistfights ! The main ' ghost ' of the narrative actually ties the film with a long-running horror series revolving around a legendary character known as " La Llorona " ( The Crying Woman ) ; I've only watched one such film , the fine Mexi-horror THE CURSE OF THE CRYING WOMAN ( 1961 ) ? which , incidentally , has also been released on DVD by Casanegra . The typical atmosphere of the horror films originating from Mexico ? steeped in family secrets , shadows and superstition ( by way of Edgar Allan Poe and Agatha Christie ) ? is further boosted in this case by the muted but pleasant color scheme . Finally , I much prefer the original title of this film ? EL GRITO DE LA MUERTE , which roughly translates to SCREAM OF DEATH ? to its American moniker , the rather meaningless THE LIVING COFFIN ( which is actually a reference to its being armored with an alarm system in case of body snatching , or in the event the coffin's occupant has been buried alive ! ) . The most substantial extra on the disc is a very interesting essay by David Wilt about this characteristically Mexican hybrid genre ( incidentally , the potential camp entertainment promised by the wealth of titles mentioned here ? the absolute majority of which have yet to see the light of day on any digital format ? is proof once again that this particular cinematic well is far from exhausted ! ) . However , given its considerable length , the inordinately tiny font used ( also for the accompanying cast biographies ) is a real strain on the eyes ! ; besides , the audio for the main feature is a bit low .
CHANCE AND VIOLENCE ( Philippe Labro , 1974 )	I had never heard of this film before but it turned out to be quite a strange little item , interesting and stylishly handled ( with the disorientating editing and the score by Michel Colombier particularly notable ) . Still , its point - other than being a denunciation of gratuitous violence , offset by a complex romance ( Yves Montand and Katharine Ross make a nice couple here , even if their characters are pretty much left deliberately in the dark ! ) - is obscure , resulting in a generally pretentious film also taking in the justice system ( Montand had been wrongfully imprisoned during the war and now , on revisiting his old cell , provides the current inmate with a means to escape ! ) . The most memorable thing about it , though , is the almost surreal presence of a karate-happy hooligan who , first , fells Montand in the lavatory of a hotel and , then , demolishes a confectionery owned by a pair of elderly female twins ( ! ) . . . though he gets his just desserts soon after this hilarious episode .
THE TERROR OF THE TONGS ( Anthony Bushell , 1961 )	Surprisingly , I quite liked this atypical Hammer offering , which is basically a companion piece to THE STRANGLERS OF BOMBAY ( 1960 ) – with the setting changed to 1910s China , and the vicious " thuggees " replaced with the equally murderous Red Dragon Tongs . As a matter of fact , one might say that the script for STRANGLERS served as a virtual template for this one – to which Hammer then assigned Jimmy Sangster , their in-house scribe , in order to apply the necessary alterations ( though , in the long run , the former still emerges as the better picture of the two ) ! With this in mind , THE TERROR OF THE TONGS likewise thrives on violent acts ( with the exploitation factor increased a notch in this case thanks to the compulsively sleazy atmosphere of taverns and opium dens ) – and the hero , too , is eventually subdued to excruciating torture but saved at the last minute . Interestingly , Christopher Lee’s role as the Tong leader anticipates his later Fu Manchu characterization – which he played in five low-budget outings ( of gradually decreasing merits ) throughout the second half of the decade . While the gaunt actor is always worth watching , here he seems to be acting through his voice alone – as his character is usually depicted sitting down and ordering his underlings about ( even when finally cornered , he keeps a thoroughly calm demeanor ) ! Geoffrey Toone is an agreeable hero , being unusually brawny : he goes after the Tongs after they callously murder his teenage daughter ; later , he saves slave girl Yvonne Monlaur from their clutches – the French actress ( who was also in THE BRIDES OF Dracula and CIRCUS OF HORRORS { both 1960 } ) is a delightful presence in the film , even if her role seldom rises above that of the ‘servile Oriental’ stereotype ! Supporting characters include a crippled beggar ( played by Marne Maitland , who was also in STRANGLERS ) who’s secretly organizing opposition to the Tongs – and has no qualms about exploiting Toone’s personal tragedy to this end ! ; returning from the earlier film , too , is Roger Delgado – who virtually replicates his part of the chief villain’s closest henchman ! Ultimately , THE TERROR OF THE TONGS looks very good in color and is generally pacy at just 76 minutes ; by the way , director Bushell had himself been an actor – numbering genre roles such as the bland hero of THE GHOUL ( 1933 ) and the ill-fated snobbish Colonel in the QUATERMASS AND THE PIT ( 1958 ) TV serial among his resume ' .
BILLY BLAZES , ESQ . ( Hal Roach , 1919 )	Harold Lloyd parodies the William S . Hart stoic Western hero prototype , resulting in an interesting one-reeler rather than an uproarious one ; the later and somewhat similar AN EASTERN WESTERNER ( 1920 ) is , however , a superior effort because it was fitted to the star's typical formula . Bebe Daniels is once again the heroine / damsel in distress ( she made a staggering 146 shorts with Lloyd according to the IMDb - apparently , only a handful of these have survived to make it into New Line's DVD collection devoted to the comic genius ! ) . Incidentally , I had first come across BILLY BLAZES , ESQ . while in Hollywood late last year on TCM , as part of an all-night Harold Lloyd marathon shown in conjunction with the release of the 7-Disc Set ( compiling 28 of his films made between 1919 and 1936 ) . In the end , it easily emerges as the least among 7 of the star's Silent comedy shorts that I've watched up to this point .
IMMORAL WOMEN ( Walerian Borowczyk , 1979 )	This is another Borowczyk compendium of erotica : the original title may translate to HEROINES OF EVIL , but the film might just as well be considered a sequel to his IMMORAL TALES ( 1974 ) – hence the similar moniker . The first episode – featuring frequent Borowczyk muse Marina Pierro – is the longest and , in a way , most substantial : it’s set in Renaissance Rome , with the lusty ( and perpetually nude ) leading lady sexually involved with famous painters and church benefactors . However , the girl is revealed to be harboring motives of her own , as she proceeds to poison and rob her wealthy admirers for the sake of her true love ! Worth noting here – apart , obviously , from the luscious Pierro’s classical beauty – is the period décor , especially the labyrinth in which Raffaello’s quarters are concealed . The second episode is the most notorious and , consequently , gave the film its controversial poster – featuring a rabbit slowly disappearing under the skirt of a teenage girl ( played by Gaelle Legrand ) . This segment is also a period piece , but it’s set in 19th century France – with the girl’s excessive fondness for her pet bunny ( she likes to spread on the garden lawn stark naked and let the curious , furry little animal ‘explore’ her body ! ) falling foul of her condescending and slightly barmy family . She then visits the horny black butcher who supplies them with lamb chops ( ostensibly to steal his carving knife ) but he proceeds to ravage her , immediately regrets his selfish act and decides to hang himself – leaving the girl free to exact her bloody revenge on her oblivious sleeping parents . The latter event , then , subsequently becomes a bedtime story told by Legrand to her companions at the orphanage she ends up in ! The third and final episode , which has a modern-day setting , is the shortest – but also , possibly , the most outrageous : Pascale Christophe is a young married woman who’s abducted on a busy Parisian street by a small-time hood hidden inside a cardboard box ! They move inconspicuously ( i . e . the box moves ! ) through the crowd until they reach his van , from where he starts organizing her ransom . She goes to a phone booth to call her husband , all the while being in the criminal’s line of fire ; the woman’s faithful Doberman senses that something is wrong and sets out in pursuit of her . Amazingly , the dog manages to locate the van by a river and savagely attacks the young man ( who , at the time , was raping its mistress ) as soon as he appears out of the vehicle . . . but the same thing happens when the husband finally arrives ( both he and the criminal , screaming in pain , eventually tumble into the water ) . Apparently , the woman is unperturbed by all of this – and is merely overjoyed at her savior’s prowess ! IMMORAL WOMEN , therefore , provides many of Borowczyk’s typical ingredients – filmed in his traditional dreamy soft-focus and set to the equally familiar strains of a harpsichord / synthesizer-based score : sexualized objects , suggestions of bestiality , a depraved religious environment ( which includes depicting Michelangelo as a neurotic homosexual given to liberating bouts of mud-slinging ! ) , snooty bourgeoisie , etc . As was the case with IMMORAL TALES , the cumulative experience of the film is somewhat underwhelming and , at nearly 2 hours , decidedly draggy ; such slight and fanciful pieces are , perhaps , best sampled individually ! Even if Borowczyk started his career by churning out surrealist animated shorts , it seems to me that he did his most potent work when his themes were fleshed out to feature-length form ( a case in point being THE BEAST [ 1975 ] , whose bizarre centre-piece was initially intended to form part of IMMORAL TALES itself – but was ultimately given added texture by being framed inside a modern , and quite fascinating , morality play ! ) .
I DREAM OF JEANIE ( With The Light Brown Hair ) ( Allan Dwan , 1952 )	On the surface , this is a poor man's SWANEE RIVER ( 1939 ) ? the big-budget 20th Century Fox biopic of celebrated American songwriter Stephen Foster ( played in that film by Don Ameche ) ; actually , there had been an even earlier film version of the same events entitled HARMONY LANE ( 1935 ) and starring Douglass Montgomery ! This Republic production is , nevertheless , a colorful diversion ? with a third-rate cast scoring quite nicely with their enthusiastic performances , and especially Ray Middleton ( as famous minstrel man , E . P . Christy ? portrayed in SWANEE RIVER by Al Jolson , and whom Middleton appears to be mimicking throughout ) , Muriel Lawrence ( as Foster's snobbish fiancée ) and Eileen Christy ( as her earthier younger sister , the Jeanie of the title ) . However , the actor who portrays Foster here ? Bill Shirley ? is rather weak and fails to do real justice to the troubled , short-lived composer ! Rotund character actor Percy Helton has a nice supporting role as Foster's sarcastic employer during his day job as a book-keeper . The film starts off amiably enough , but the second half is mostly bogged down by an uninterrupted succession of musical numbers ? although Middleton's forceful , slightly campy portrayal of the flamboyant Christy does a lot to enliven proceedings nevertheless . Prolific Hollywood veteran Dwan dabbled in practically every genre ; this , in fact , wasn't his first musical ? having earlier made the 1939 version of THE THREE MUSKETEERS ( also known as THE SINGING MUSKETEER , and whose recently-released DVD edition I need to pick up , especially now that I've just acquired a number of his work via budget releases from VCI ) . For the record , three cast members from the film ? Middleton , Shirley and Christy ? were re-united with their director here for next year's SWEETHEARTS ON PARADE .
ZARAK ( Terence Young , 1956 )	This desert-set adventure flick exemplifies the subtle difference between Hokum and Camp : recently , I had watched its star , Victor Mature , in THE VEILS OF BAGDAD ( 1953 ) ? spirited , tongue-in-cheek and generally exuding an air of unpretentious low-budget professionalism , it falls firmly into the former category ; ZARAK , on the other hand , tries to be serious ( with its religious / political undertones and calling into question familial / patriotic loyalties at times of stress ) but is so relentlessly high-strung as to emerge a fount of virtually uninterrupted ( but clearly unintended ) hilarity ! These are too numerous to cite and most have , in any case already subsided in my memory , but I can't fail to mention Mature's irrepressible resourcefulness ? though very obviously doubled at times ? when aroused ( including high-kicking his opponents and vigorously hacking away at a rope-bridge on which his arch-nemesis Michael Wilding is hanging for dear life ) , stoicism in the face of torture and impending death and , particularly , his wallowing in self-pity ( and hysterically funny subsequent haunting ) after unwittingly bludgeoning to death the current Mullah of the mosque ? who had actually interceded for Mature during a public flogging and does the same , much to the latter's evident chagrin , for the British Major at the aforementioned bridge sequence ! That is not to say ZARAK is a bad film in the strict sense of the word : for one thing , there's plenty of action throughout ( some of it actually borrowed from the classic Alexander Korda production of THE FOUR FEATHERS [ 1939 ] ! ) ? but , to be sure , the narrative is inordinately muddled for this type of film ( not only in delineating the plot or the hero's motivations , but also by having such a prominent character as that of Bernard Miles vanish altogether halfway through ) ! This was the second of six British-made actioners featuring Hollywood hunk Mature , filmed virtually back-to-back and after which his career would slowly grind to a stand-still ; for the record , the others ? none of which I've watched ? were SAFARI ( 1956 ) , INTERPOL ( 1957 ; also with co-star Anita Ekberg ) , THE LONG HAUL ( 1957 ) , NO TIME TO DIE ( 1958 ) and the somewhat similar THE BANDIT OF ZHOBE ( 1959 ; actually directed by the co-story writer of this one , John Gilling ) . Sexy in scantily-clad attire , Ekberg even gets to perform a sultry exotic dance but is otherwise underused here ; Wilding is as ineffectual playing the stiff-upper-lipped cavalry officer after Mature as the latter is wooden in Afghan tinge and garb ( ! ) , Miles appears as the star's one-eyed comic relief sidekick ( at one point drooling over the heroine's writhing and to which he's vainly attempting to draw his brooding partner's attention ) , while Finlay Currie is ? what else ? ? the earnest but ill-fated Holy Man . Apart from these , the supporting cast includes : Bonar Colleano ( as one of Zarak's treacherous younger siblings ) , Frederick Valk ( in his last role as his tyrannical father ) , Eunice Gayson ( best-known for first eliciting the celebrated trademark response of " Bond , James Bond " ? in DR . NO [ 1962 ] , of course ? is here Wilding's ingenuous bride ) and Patrick McGoohan ( youthful but already imposing in what is presumably his first sizeable part in a film as Wilding's aide ) . The behind-the-scenes credits are similarly notable ? several of whom would soon prove instrumental in cementing the 007 image into the public consciousness .
THE SILENT FLUTE ( Richard Moore , 1978 )	I'd been intrigued by this one for some time due its being based on a story concocted by Bruce Lee and James Coburn ; when it emerged as a " Special Edition " via the Blue Underground label , I had considered purchasing the DVD but somehow never got around to it . Eventually , CIRCLE OF IRON ( as it's better-known ) was even expanded into a fully-loaded 2-Disc Set ? but , then , I happened upon the original disc at a local rental outlet and finally decided to check it out . As it happened , I was somewhat let down by the film : I'm all for exotic action / adventure stuff ? a genre which got something of a revival during this era ? but , despite the various trimmings ( martial arts , mystical overtones , plus a number of rather superfluous cameo appearances by the likes of Roddy MacDowall , Eli Wallach and Christopher Lee ) , THE SILENT FLUTE came across as invincibly low-brow ! Besides , while David Carradine is ostensibly the star ( and even gets to play four different parts for no discernible reason ! ) , the hero proper of the narrative was played a beefy protégé of his ? Jeff Cooper ? whose wooden performance here really drowned the film for me ! ! The plot ? the winner of a martial arts tournament is assigned the task of seeking the whereabouts of a famous wizard ( played by horror legend Lee ) who is in possession of an all-powerful book ? sounds intriguing on paper but , to be honest , the way this plays out on screen it's not terribly compelling ; worse still , the denouement is a real cop-out ! That said , the numerous action sequences and Carradine's characterization of a blind shepherd ( himself a martial arts champion ) who guides Cooper on his danger-fraught journey make the film palatable for the most part . Despite the obvious low-budget at his disposal , too , one-time-only director Moore ( his more typical credit is as a cinematographer ) lends the film reasonable visual style ? accentuated by the expansive Israeli locations ( which constitutes the film's main asset along with Australian composer Bruce Smeaton's beautiful score ) . As a matter of fact , Moore admits in the disc's Audio Commentary that the main reason that seemed to have gotten him the assignment in the first place was because his background as a cameraman assured ( in the eyes of the producers , at least ) outstanding visuals ! THE SILENT FLUTE is , ultimately , a hodgepodge of disparate ideas ( with its most bizarre element being Wallach's masochistic " Man In Oil " and his diatribe on the virtues of a life without one's own genitalia ! ) which don't really jell and , consequently , it works only in fits and starts . . .
LUST FOR A VAMPIRE ( Jimmy Sangster , 1971 )	Like THE HORROR OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1970 ) , this is one of the most reviled Hammer efforts - but , again , I found it not that bad after all ! Still , being one of the countless vampire-themed outings from the studio , it does feel like a tired rehash of better films ; actually , it happens to be the middle part of Hammer's " Karnstein Trilogy " ( inspired by J . Sheridan Le Fanu's classic short story " Carmilla " ) - if , admittedly , the least of them . As was the case with THE VAMPIRE LOVERS ( 1970 ) and would be again with TWINS OF EVIL ( 1971 ) , the main behind-the-scenes credits weren't the usual Hammer stalwarts : producers Harry Fine and Michael Style , screenwriter Tudor Gates and composer Harry Robinson . While the latter's score is appropriately grandiose for the most part , the love song - apparently inserted without director Sangster's consent , or even knowledge - is a total embarrassment ! It starts off well enough : all-too-typical material , to be sure , but very atmospheric ( Carmilla's reincarnation , for instance , or the scene where hero Michael Johnson is surprised at the dilapidated Karnstein Castle by three cloaked female figures he takes to be vampires ) and reasonably entertaining for all that . Other effective moments include : Carmilla's botched seduction of the Suzanna Leigh character ; a couple of falls down a well , rendered stylized by the use of slow-motion ; and the climax with the vampires trapped inside their flaming castle ( lit by the inevitable torch-bearing villagers ) . However , following the demise half-way through of top-billed Ralph Bates ( yet another impressive turn from Hammer's candidate to replace Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee ) , the film slowly falls apart ; reportedly , Cushing was supposed to have played the scholar / would-be vampire disciple - but I can't help feeling he'd have been both too old and ill-suited for the role . Similarly , Sangster replaced Terence Fisher : it would have been interesting to see Hammer's top director tackle " Carmilla " - but I wonder how he'd have handled the erotic aspects of the story . With its full-frontal nudity and scenes of lesbian love-making , THE VAMPIRE LOVERS had been credited with pushing the boundaries of permissiveness in Hammer horror - and this certainly follows in that tradition , with the script coming up with every possible excuse to have its scrumptious female cast disrobe ! The film does suffer from the lack of a star cast or even those familiar Hammer faces ( other than Bates , that is ) : there's no denying that leading lady Yutte Stensgaard looks great throughout but , ultimately , she makes for an inadequate vampire ( since she's depicted as being more pathetic than evil ) ; Suzanna Leigh , then , is an equally attractive heroine ; Barbara Jefford and Mike Raven , however , don't exactly ignite the screen as the Karnstein descendants ( he was an especially poor choice and Hammer apparently realized this , to the extent that they had his voice dubbed by Valentine Dyall - while close-ups of Christopher Lee's eyes were roped in to ' aid ' his character display the requisite fierceness ! ) ; Helen Christie is unintentionally funny as the headmistress of the school ( where a good deal of the action takes place ) , who breaks down at ill-fated Police Inspector Harvey Hall's interrogation after a girl goes missing - which she fails to report immediately so as not to damage the school's reputation ! In the Audio Commentary , Sangster explains how he was dismissed by the producers ( with whom he never saw eye to eye ) during the editing stage . Suzanna Leigh spends more time discussing her career ( in particular the actress ' brief stint in Hollywood ) than her contribution to the film proper , also mentioning her role in an episode of Hammer's JOURNEY TO THE UNKNOWN ( 1968-9 ) TV series - that , incidentally , was entirely filmed in Malta - and , at one point , even describes an out-of-body experience she went through in the mid-70s ! However , Leigh does recall the atmosphere on the set of LUST FOR A VAMPIRE as being somewhat tense - with the troupe divided into two camps ( one of which was snobbish about the profession , while the other kept a good-humored attitude towards the whole thing ) . Curiously , no mention is made at all of the film's literary origins - or , for that matter , the fact that it formed part of Hammer's Karnstein trilogy !
ABBESS OF CASTRO ( Armando Crispino , 1974 )	Another Italian example of " Nunsploitation " , this one supposedly scores a few more points in prestige over its contemporaries for being ' inspired ' by a Stendhal source ? although , frankly , it seems to share some of its storyline with an earlier ? and better-known ? film , THE NUNS OF ST . ARCHANGEL aka THE NUN AND THE DEVIL ( 1973 ) ! It is perhaps just as well that these kind of movies were mostly ignored upon original release because otherwise I fail to see how the Vatican can have permitted such squalid and potentially sacrilegious depictions of its members : in this film , Barbara Bouchet is driven to a convent by her ambitious mother in order to squash an affair she was having with an undesired adventurer ; once enrolled , she quickly claims the top spot because her mother's wealth finances the convent's operations ? thus incurring the hatred of her rival Evelyn Stewart , who loses no opportunity to inform on Bouchet to an influential Cardinal when the former catches the eye of the womanizing warrior-bishop who , eventually , impregnates her ! ! This is not to mention the fact that the bishop clearly feels only contempt and disgust for the famished beggars who hover outside the convent walls ; moreover , the solution for the prevailing draught is sought in the throwing-snakes-in-the-fire rites of a traveling charlatan whose arrival somehow serves to erotically arouse the repressed nuns , leading to some barnyard shenanigans between a lowly priest and a novice who are subsequently hypocritically persecuted to their death by the all-but-innocent bishop himself ! Lead actress Bouchet looks great in and out of the cloth ( who , for some reason , keeps asking her feeble-minded maid to strip her stark naked for bedtime ! ) but , at just 31 years of age , she is too young to be believable as a Mother Superior . The rest of the cast is not very well-known or even all that interesting , except for Stewart ( amusingly misspelled as Eveline Sthewart ! ) as Bouchet's nemesis within the cloister and a red-headed Mara Venier as the ill-fated novice . As for the crew , cinematographer Gabor Pogany and composer Carlo Savina are , respectively , prolific Art-house and Euro-Cult exponents ; on the other hand , obscure director Crispino only has a handful of intriguingly oddball genre flicks to his name .
D-DAY THE SIXTH OF JUNE ( Henry Koster , 1956 )	Another big-budget WWII adventure , filmed in color and widescreen by Fox in the ' 50s - and a misleadingly titled one , as it barely concerns the crucial 1944 Normandy invasion it references ( not surprisingly Fox returned to this subject , and tackled it much more comprehensively , in THE LONGEST DAY [ 1962 ] ) ! As a matter of fact , the film's one genuine battle sequence , while quite well done , occurs only after having gone through some 80 minutes of incessant talk ; the bulk of this footage is devoted to a romantic triangle , told in lengthy flashbacks , which comprises American Robert Taylor and Brits Richard Todd and Dana Wynter , plus a rather irrelevant subplot involving maverick Colonel Edmond O'Brien ! That said , the film is glossily proficient and remains highly watchable as the kind of unassuming entertainment turned out on a general basis by Hollywood in its heyday . . .
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK ( Jean Yarbrough , 1952 )	I had watched this previously ( at secondary school , of all places ! ) and recall not liking it all that much . However , I was more amenable to it this time around ? perhaps because it came hot on the heels of a similar film pitting a comedy act in a fairy-tale setting , i . e . the self-explanatory SNOW WHITE AND THE THREE STOOGES ( 1961 ) ; here , of course , it's Abbott & Costello we're talking about . The film utilizes the sepia-into-color transition popularized by THE WIZARD OF OZ ( 1939 ) between its modern-day bookends and the period-set main narrative ; less welcome are the entirely resistible love interest and musical numbers , seemingly compulsory ingredients of this type of family-oriented fare but which now date them most of all ! As usually happens , too , most of the characters who appear in the fairy-tale also turn up in ' real life ' ? including , in this case , the Giant ( played by Buddy Bear from the afore-mentioned SNOW WHITE AND THE THREE STOOGES ) who also fills in for a burly cop whom the pint-sized Lou Costello aggravates ! The stars are amiable as always and manage to adapt their standard characterizations to the requirements of the familiar formula . Incidentally , this proved to be the boys ' fourth of five films with director Yarborough ? and one of only two A & C vehicles to be made in color ( the other being the similarly adventurous ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET CAPTAIN KIDD [ 1952 ] ) . Atypically for them , this was not a Universal production ? but rather an independent one distributed through Warner Bros . , which explains its public domain status ! Finally , I really ought to spring for those four " Abbott & Costello " DVD collections from Universal one of these days ? plus I still have a handful of filmed fairy tales / children's classics to go through during this Christmas period . . .
LET'S SCARE JESSICA TO DEATH ( John Hancock , 1971 )	For all its cult reputation ( especially given the loud decrying by fans over the film's unavailability on DVD - until recently , that is ) , this initial viewing proved somewhat underwhelming . Being a studio product ( courtesy of Paramount ) , it did receive some exposure on original release : for instance it's listed in " Halliwell's Film Guide " , which usually skimps over such non-mainstream fare ! Still , some of its independently-made low-budget contemporaries - which I came across thanks largely to the Internet - were more immediately impressive ( BONE [ 1972 ] , DEATHDREAM [ 1972 ] , GANJA & HESS [ 1973 ] , DEAD AND BURIED [ 1981 ] ) . For starters , the unknown performers fail to bring conviction to ( or elicit much sympathy for ) the rather dully-written characters . Besides , the film can't quite make up its mind what it wants to be - ghost story , psychological study , or an exercise in low-grade artiness a ' la the contemporaneous work of Jean Rollin ! That said , despite its overly-familiar depiction of a hostile backwoods townsfolk , the eerie lakeside atmosphere ( coupled with an evocative score ) is undeniably effective - resulting in the occasional well-timed frisson ; if anything , the tense latter stages ( with their enigmatic revelation and inconclusive ending ) improve on a slow-moving and somewhat uncertain beginning . Furthermore , the film's clever device of concluding with a repetition of ( actually , a lead-up to ) the opening sequence - that is , without alerting the audience to its essential flashback structure - is also note-worthy and has been imitated in such recent supernatural thrillers as FALLEN ( 1998 ) .
COLT 38 SPECIAL SQUAD ( Massimo Dallamano , 1976 )	Slightly above-average and pretty bleak poliziottesco ; it came , more or less , halfway through the run of the genre and , while well enough made , it is also curiously undistinguished ( though buoyed by a typically great pounding score by Stelvio Cipriani and expert cinematography by Gabor Pogany ) . The " Special Squad " of the title is a hand-picked team of fearless cops determined to fight the most nefarious criminal minds – their prowess and agility gives rise to plenty of exciting chase sequences ( cue the remarkable stuntwork which often came in handy within this particular genre ) but only one of them is really well-defined as a character . However , there’s also the topical element of terrorism – exemplifying such heinous acts as plagued the country during this era – with a couple of spectacular but harrowing explosions in public places . The film is given a nice boost by having Marcel Bozzuffi , best-known for playing the criminal pursued by Gene Hackman in THE FRENCH CONNECTION ( 1971 ) , essaying the role of the iconoclastic cop this time around ! Carole Andre ' , a regular starlet in Italian films of the time , is somewhat wasted as the long-suffering moll ( though leading an outwardly luxurious life ) of one of the hoods ; her one attempt to stand up to the gang , plus her innocent involvement with a member of the Squad , seals her fate and she’s eventually marked for death . Ivan Rassimov is the dour villain , typically given a fashionable name ( Il Marsigliese ) and who engages throughout in a cat-and-mouse game with Bozzuffi – the former had killed Rassimov’s brother in a run-in with the police , and the criminal reiterated by murdering Bozzuffi’s spouse . The final showdown ( with Bozzuffi predictably turning up to execute Rassimov just when it seems he’s likely to get away ) is swift but nonetheless effective ; disappointingly , they share no real confrontation scene . Unfortunately , this turned out to be director Dallamano’s last film ; he died some time after the end of shooting in a car accident ! Also , Grace Jones makes an unremarkable early appearance here as a nightclub singer . The No Shame Limited Edition DVD is quite splendid : not only because of the shining transfer of the film itself and some wonderful supplements – fascinating interviews with both editor Antonio Siciliano and composer Cipriani – but also the fact that it includes a bonus feature on a second disc , namely Luciano Ercoli’s own swan-song called THE RIP-OFF ( 1978 ) , actually a poliziottesco spoof once thought lost and which I’ll get to in due time . . .
STRANGE OCCASION ( Nanni Loy { uncredited } , Luigi Magni and Luigi Comencini , 1976 )	This is another of the myriad Italian compendium films , highlighting some of their more popular stars and dealing with one of the most commercial of subject matters – sex . The first episode with Paolo Villaggio was the centre of controversy over its tastelessness , resulting in director Loy removing his name from it . The star resides in Amsterdam with his wife , making very little money selling specialty Italian food ; one day he crosses paths with a local bigwig who notices the generous size of his member and , soon , Villaggio starts bringing home lots of dough – appearing in mask and costume , billed as the " Italian Superman " , in live porn shows making love to nubile girls stretched out on a large plate of pasta ! It’s not long , however , before the wife finds out – but , rather than ask him to stop , she wants to get in on the act ; the catch is that he can’t ‘work’ with his wife , and this soon leads him to be replaced by a Turkish hunk ! Perhaps the best moment in this episode sees Villaggio hanging over the side of a ship : on chasing his initially distraught wife , he tries to explain that he’s doing it for her as well as the country’s honor , before nonchalantly confessing that he has just s his pants ! Nino Manfredi’s episode may be the most ordinary of the lot , since it’s not much different from many another Italian comedy of the era where an ageing man has one last fling with a teenage acquaintance . However , the star’s wonderful performance – not to mention the lovely presence of the entire female cast ( including Manfredi’s elegant wife and their spunky daughter ) – make it a very engaging romp ( while also commenting on the state of ‘modern’ families ) . The final episode is universally considered the best of the three : it revolves around a very simple situation , where Monsignor Alberto Sordi is trapped in an elevator for three days with sexy young Stefania Sandrelli . They start off by loathing one another , but their predicament ( which happens during Italy’s Ferragosto period , where literally everybody goes on vacation ! ) soon has them bonding . The girl is even lulled into confiding her deepest secrets to the elderly man of the cloth , i . e . how she chose to console a young boy she just met whose mother had recently died ( though when Sandrelli tells the priest that she wasn’t comfortable doing it , due to the presence of the boy’s sister at the same party , he bursts out with a spontaneous " What the f ? " ) . Sordi , however , is eventually revealed to be less pious than he lets on – and his declaration that someone freeing his natural instincts under abnormal conditions ( as happens to him in the dark with Sandrelli here ) isn’t responsible for them is rather a moot point ! With respect to the erotic content in the film , there’s full-frontal nudity only in the first episode , while it’s pretty mild in the second and – understandably – non-existent in the third ; still , one has to admire such respected stars as Manfredi and Sordi for not being afraid to play characters which , basically , could only be labeled ‘dirty old men’ ! Typically , the film is accompanied by a lively lounge score from the late Piero Piccioni . Incidentally , I recently taped a similarly-themed compendium ( starring and directed by Sordi ) called A COMMON SENSE OF MODESTY ( 1976 ) , which I hope to watch one of these days . . .
DR . JEKYLL AND MR . HYDE ( TV ) ( Mark Redfield , 2002 )	Although I had heard good things about this shot-on-video adaptation of the Robert Louis Stevenson horror classic , the fact that it was the most recent version I've watched so far , that it was maligned cheapo label Alpha which had released it on DVD and that I had seen Giorgio Albertazzi's superlative TV mini-series JEKYLL ( 1969 ) fairly recently , made me postpone this viewing past its Halloween Challenge due date ! As it happens , while it may not rank anywhere near the top of the pile in JEKYLL & HYDE movies , it is lively , engaging and innovative enough to earn a respectable placement in that pantheon . Practically a one-man labor of love for writer - producer - designer - director - leading man Mark Redfield , his excellent portrayal of the two facets of the good doctor ( but especially his despicable Hyde incarnation ) is the film's major asset ; also putting in good work is the lovely Elena Torrez as Hyde's prize streetwalker , Robert Leembruggen as Torrez's dethroned pimp and R . Scott Thompson as Jekyll's nemesis , Mordecai Carew . The sets are cleverly effective in a cheaply naïve sort of way but the inherently drab look of DV shooting and the obvious theatrical origins of the whole production work against the film's overall appeal . Rather than making unwieldy comparisons to other superior film versions of the story , it would be more fruitful to dwell on what this film took from them and how it differs from the norm : for example , the setting is moved forward a little to after the Ripper murders like EDGE OF SANITY ( 1989 ) ; Jekyll keeps portraits of his ancestors in his living room ( two of them being none other than John Barrymore and Fredric March ! ) ; the Hyde make-up here is more akin to Spencer Tracy's " less is more " approach than the overtly simian look of March's Hyde ; like Jean-Louis Barrault in Jean Renoir's LE TESTAMENT DU DOCTEUR CORDELIER ( 1959 ) and Giorgio Albertazzi's aforementioned Italian TV version , Hyde here dies by his own hand ( strangulation ) rather than being shot by the police ; Jekyll narrates the progress of his experiments into a dictaphone like in the Renoir film , as well as by Udo Kier in Walerian Borowoczyk's DOCTEUR JEKYLL ET LES FEMMES ( 1981 ) , etc . The fanciful liberties taken with the original text are more of a hit-or-miss affair , however : Hyde turns into Jekyll in front of an insignificant new intern rather than his skeptical rival Dr . Lanyon ; Jekyll's fiancée jumps to her death off a balcony when Hyde takes over Jekyll and , as a result , the latter stops calling at her mansion ; Jekyll indulges in some unexplained dealings with body snatchers ( ! ) for his experiments ; Hyde loses a finger when , in a trigger-happy mood , he despatches Leembruggen ; this being set around the turn-of-the-century , Jekyll takes the time to record the outcome of his experiments on film courtesy of a cinematographic device purchased directly from the Lumiere brothers ! ; a bumbling Scotland Yard Inspector ( who even namedrops Arthur Conan Doyle at one stage ) aids Jekyll's attorney , Mr . Utterson , in investigating the disappearance of Jekyll and cornering Hyde in his hideout ; an eccentric Chinaman is Hyde's landlord in his Soho abode , etc . P . S . Redfield has just completed THE DEATH OF POE and is , apparently , in the pre-production stages of THE CRIMES OF SHERLOCK HOLMES , THE MADNESS OF FRANKENSTEIN and THE TELL-TALE HEART . . .
THE FIVE MAN ARMY ( Don Taylor and Italo Zingarelli , 1969 )	To begin with , this is one of the first films I ever recall watching ? my father having acquired a copy on 16mm when I was still a kid ! ; needless to say , I've been wanting to re-acquaint myself with it for several years ? particularly to see how it stacked up against other Spaghetti Westerns which , naturally , I came across much later ? and , this , in spite of Leonard Maltin's unflattering rating ! As it turned out , the film lived up to my expectations in being a middle-of-the-road genre effort ? not one of the best , perhaps , but reasonably entertaining all the same . Incidentally , it forms part of a handful of Spaghetti Westerns with the Mexican Revolution as backdrop ; an added attraction to the film , then , is its main plot involving a caper aboard a moving ( and heavily-guarded ) train ? it has , in fact , been referred to as a cross between THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN ( 1960 ; in view of the select group called upon to aid in a cause ) and THE WILD BUNCH ( 1969 ; which had a similar robbery as a subplot ) ! While the central train sequence involves some notable tension ( the elderly dynamite expert loses part of his equipment , the samurai falls off and has to run across a lengthy stretch of fields in order to rejoin his associates ) , the gang is never shown to be in any serious danger throughout ; the final confrontation with the Army , for instance , is nothing at all like the notorious massacre seen in THE WILD BUNCH itself ? in fact , none of them gets wounded or killed ? and even the tension within the outfit over whether they should hand over the gold to the revolutionaries or else keep it for themselves is resolved without so much as a punch ( rather it's shrugged off with a laugh ! ) . The multi-national group is played by Americans Peter Graves ( well cast in a basic extension of his signature role in the classic MISSION : IMPOSSIBLE TV series ) and James Daly ( his presence here isn't displeasing yet quite baffling , as he can't have been at all a familiar name to Italians ? personally , I only knew him from his brief role in PLANET OF THE APES [ 1968 ] ! ) , Japanese Tetsuro Tamba ( who's just as anonymous as Daly ? perhaps the film's budget could afford only one foreign ' star ' ) and , of course , Italians Bud Spencer ( a staple of the genre and , thankfully , resorting only very briefly to his trademark comic brawling ) and the youthful Nino Castelnuovo ( who , naturally , sides with the Revolution all along ) . The supporting cast includes another genre contribution from Italian starlet Daniela Giordano ( as a Mexican peasant girl who shows interest in samurai Tamba ) : her lovely presence is always welcome ? and I still recalled the scene here in which the Army General tears off her clothes from all those years ago ! ? but it's not quite as captivating as in the two other films of hers that I've watched ; there's also Giacomo Rossi-Stuart ? who , for an actor of his stature , is given very little screen-time as a lieutenant to the Mexican General . Having mentioned the surprise casting , one also has to question the decision behind offering the directorial reins to a minor-league American , former actor Taylor ; incidentally , years later , when Giordano was asked by a magazine to comment about the film , she couldn't even recall him being on the set and that co-director Zingarelli handled most of the proceedings ! Dario Argento was also behind this film as a scriptwriter ? which makes the film's tameness all the more curious and , given its derivative nature , perhaps shows his ultimate disenchantment with the Spaghetti Western genre ? or else he was already thinking of branching out into direction ( his debut film , the seminal giallo THE BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE [ 1970 ] , was released not long after ) . THE FIVE MAN ARMY is marked by yet another rousing Ennio Morricone score ? which is cited by fans as being among his best from this era but , to me , it felt somewhat too similar to his work on Sergio Leone's " Dollars " trilogy ! Finally , I couldn't really determine the running-time of the film ? since it was interrupted by numerous publicity spots ( I watched a VHS recording of a TV broadcast ) ; however , curiously enough , the Italian version is listed as being only 91 minutes long on " Stracult " ? whereas the edition prepared for U . S . consumption is 107 minutes !
MEN IN BLACK ( Raymond McCarey , 1934 )	This Oscar-nominated Three Stooges short was possibly a spoof on the Clark Gable hospital drama MEN IN WHITE ( 1934 ) . The insane comedy style of the film is pretty much influenced by The Marx Bros . – but actually anticipates their own assault on the medical profession in A DAY AT THE RACES ( 1937 ) ! The Stooges go to their designated operating rooms via horses , racing-cars and the like ; the operation on their own boss sees them using an electric drill and then stitching him up with all the various instruments of the profession still inside ! As ever , the comic trio fall back too often on slapping each other around ( not to mention fooling around with some girl , in this case a dumb nurse ) ; actually , the best gag revolves around the glass on the boss’ office door ( which is smashed every time our heroes leave his company , since they’re constantly being called to explain their unethical behavior – seeing them coming one more time , the janitor who’s forever replacing the glass anticipates them by breaking it himself ! ) . Incidentally , both director McCarey and screenwriter Felix Adler worked contemporaneously on the ( more sympathetic but no less havoc-ridden ) films of Laurel & Hardy .
THE GOOD THIEF ( Pasquale Festa Campanile , 1980 )	This was a highly unlikely but surprisingly effective and enjoyable venture for Italian cinema to undertake at the start of the 1980s : the fanciful story of ' The Good Thief ' who ended up being crucified next to Jesus Christ on Golgotha Hill . Then-popular comic Enrico Montesano is ideally cast in the title role of a confidence trickster who roams the streets of Galilee forever in search of the next merchant to sell his defective goods to ( passing off a black goat ? harbinger of bad luck ? as white by painting it ! ; a dead dog , sold for his silvery skin , which jumps back to life upon hearing its master's whistle , etc . ) or the next gullible simpleton to impress with his ' magical ' skills ( changing water into wine via a tube hidden inside his robe attached to his arms , etc . ) . Naturally , he does not take kindly to the appearance of Jesus ( a very understated and virtually silent appearance by regular Euro-Cult tough guy Claudio Cassinelli ) who , not only seems to impinge on his territory , but also seemingly outdoes his every trick with the greatest of ease and the minimum of fuss ! Despite its reverent subject , being ostensibly an Italian comedy of its time and co-starring the bountiful Edwige Fenech ( playing Lazarus ' cousin , a has-been leper whore ! ) no less , one could hardly fail to find nudity here ? although , surprisingly enough , the film's sexiest episode involves distinguished French actress Bernadette Lafont who , as the nymphomaniac wife of a Roman aristocrat , indulges in some prolonged posterior playtime with her willing slave Montesano ! ! Another ingredient that comes with the territory is crude humor of the scatological variety and this is exhibited via Montesano's encounter with a bunch of Roman soldiers who , entrapping him in a grave , first force him to display his circumcised organ and , then , to repay the favor douse him in collective peeing ! ! Incongruously , this is then followed by the film's most poignant sequence when the soldiers callously shoot dead his fateful dog ( that , amusingly , had previously served as Montesano's ' eye ' during card games ) ! Furthermore , director Festa Campanile ( who was also the author of the controversial original source novel ) cleverly makes his hapless protagonist a witness to Christ's ministry long before their fateful meeting on Good Friday : he shares a beggars ' banquet at the Cana Wedding ; he sees a lame man being cured ; he goes to the Sermon on the Mount when the miracle of the multiplication of the bread and fish to feed the masses is performed ; he is there to observe His walk on water ; he is the one to benefit ( albeit for a short-term ) from Christ telling a wealthy acolyte to go dispose of his every earthly possession and follow Him , etc . Strangely enough , however , the all-important Cruxifiction scene is rather carelessly dealt with , as if the film-makers where impatient to wrap things up ! In any case , their decision to shoot in Tunisia pays dividends in an authentic recreation of the times and the ubiquitous Ennio Morricone supplies a jaunty music score that pleases the ear without taxing one's memory .
Hammer House Of Horror : The Thirteenth Reunion ( Peter Sasdy , 1980 ) ( TV )	The second episode in the series is directed by a veteran ( albeit a latter-day recruit ) of Hammer Films . Again , while hardly outstanding , this is a more than adequate effort ? even if , for the most part , the narrative follows a mystery-thriller pattern rather than outright horror . Then again , the studio has had its fair share of films in this style and , in any case , the final revelation is horrific ( if not exactly unpredictable ) ? truth be told , it's more ' shocking ' than most of their now rather quaint films ! The casting is modest but nonetheless effective : Julia Foster overacts somewhat ( particularly when supposed to show bewilderment ) as the reporter heroine covering the goings-on at a newly-established diet clinic , Dinah Sheridan ( best-known for her role in GENEVIEVE [ 1953 ] ) is her newspaper editor , Gerard Kelly the young funeral attendant who alerts Foster to his employers ' extra-curricular activities ( which she discovers have a connection with the clinic ) , and Warren Clarke ( Dim from A CLOCKWORK ORANGE [ 1971 ] ) gets a nice role as an ill-fated patient who befriends Foster but ends up getting the wrong sort of raw deal !
BUTCH AND SUNDANCE : THE EARLY DAYS ( Richard Lester , 1979 )	This unnecessary prequel to a seminal western is still fairly enjoyable on its own and the two leads ( Tom Berenger and William Katt ) , then virtually unknown , mimic Paul Newman and Robert Redford , respectively , surprisingly well ; Jeff Corey is even on hand to reprise his role from the earlier film ! Good-looking if forgettable entertainment - and curiously straightforward , given the stylization of the original and the involvement of Richard Lester ( A HARD DAY'S NIGHT [ 1964 ] , PETULIA [ 1968 ] ) who , earlier in the decade , had also directed two rousing adventures , THE THREE MUSKETEERS ( 1973 ) and its sequel , THE FOUR MUSKETEERS ( 1974 ) !
HOUSE OF CARDS ( John Guillermin , 1968 )	Mildly interesting ( if typically muddled ) 1960s European-set political thriller – while not as glum as many of its ilk , it’s still hampered by an essentially far-fetched premise and the occasional silly passage ( more on this later ) . The plot involves a proposed coup d’etat in France organized by the exiled ‘Algerian’ elite : apparently , this web of intrigue already holds most of the country’s high places in its grip and has even started to spread across to the United States ! ; the head of these aristocratic dissidents is played by Orson Welles . Enter rugged ( if washed-up ) boxer George Peppard who , surprisingly , finds himself recruited as tutor to a boy who’s the future hope of said organization ; the latter’s mother ( the ill-fated Inger Stevens , who’s quite radiant here ) is obviously frustrated by this arrangement – seeking comfort in alcohol and , eventually , Peppard’s affections . The widow of a famed General , she had suffered a nervous breakdown ; her doctor , played by Keith Michell , doesn’t take kindly to Peppard’s presence in the house – for a reason we only learn of towards the end . Anyway , both hero and heroine soon become a danger to the safety of the operation – so , when Stevens’ son is kidnapped by Welles and company ( while framing Peppard for the murder of his own best friend ) , the couple decide to escape together in an effort to outwit the villains and rescue the boy . Their journey takes them to several other ‘bases’ being used by the gang : a château ( where they’ve already begun assembling the army for the eventual take-over ) , a little house by the river in Italy ( to which the fugitive duo travel by train ) and , later , an abandoned monastery ( ! ) in Rome . After a brief tete-a'-tete in a sauna , Peppard and Welles decide to meet for an exchange ( the hero has come into possession of a list with the names of the secret society’s associates in America ) at the Coliseum ; when he gets there , Peppard is met by the boy – who’s been brainwashed into killing the former – but , predictably , he turns on Welles instead . . . who , trying to evade his aim , lamely falls to his death ! The latter is one of the silly passages I mentioned at the beginning ; another is a scene aboard the train in which Stevens has to distract a burly official by parading around the compartment in her underwear ; not to mention the one in which , having no money when the car they ‘borrowed’ runs out of gas , Peppard and Stevens decide to pinch the coins famously thrown for luck by tourists in the Trevi fountain ! Commendably , the film maintains a good pace throughout – with much of the heavy-going aspects of the plot relegated to the first half ; besides , it delivers in most areas where this type of gene effort usually excels : attractive Widescreen photography , a notable score ( and theme song ) by Francis Lai and , of course , lovely girls ( apart from Stevens , we get sexy Perrette Pradier – with whom I was unfamiliar – and , in one scene , Rosemary Dexter from Jess Franco’s MARQUIS DE SADE’S JUSTINE [ 1968 ] and the Malta-filmed VENDETTA FOR THE SAINT [ 1969 ] ) . Also in the cast are Ralph Michael ( the would-be murderer in " The Haunted Mirror " , a celebrated episode from the classic horror compendium DEAD OF NIGHT [ 1945 ] , as Stevens’ apparently genial brother-in-law ) and beefy " Euro-Cult " regular Renzo Palmer as one of the organization’s choice thugs ( at one point , passing himself off as a monk – complete with trademark shaven head ! ) . Incidentally , HOUSE OF CARDS ( adapted from Stanley Ellin’s novel by the husband-and-wife team of Irving Ravetch and Harriet Frank Jr . – albeit under the pseudonym James P . Bonner , and where the significance of the titular Tarot cards has been all but eliminated ! ) was the last of three consecutive films director Guillermin made with George Peppard in the lead – the others being the WWI epic THE BLUE MAX ( 1966 ) and the detective thriller P . J . ( 1968 ) .
ROME ARMED TO THE TEETH ( Umberto Lenzi , 1976 )	For the most part , this is one of the better poliziotteschi I've watched with several of the virtues associated with the genre - unrelenting action , pounding score , hard-boiled dialogue , an undercurrent of sleaze - and two of its top stars in Maurizio Merli and Tomas Milian . A measure of the film's popularity is the fact that the characters played by both leads here ( Inspector Tanzi in Merli's case and Vincenzo Moretto , dubbed " The Hunchback " , in Milian's ) were developed into individual series : in fact , the latter appeared in two more outings , while Tanzi had only one more film to go - THE CYNIC , THE RAT AND THE FIST ( 1977 ) which , interestingly , still had Milian co-star as an odious criminal but in a totally different characterization . One other typical feature of the genre is the presence of a veteran American star - in this case , Arthur Kennedy as Merli's by-the-book superior ( but who's eventually converted to our hero's iconoclastic viewpoint ) . The supporting cast , then , features any number of familiar faces who thrived in Italian genre movies - chief among them Ivan Rassimov and Luciano Pigozzi . The film has no real plot to speak of - other than to place Tanzi , at times in rather contrived fashion , in the midst of some action set-up ( chasing and / or beating up petty criminals or intimidating some rich-kid suspect ) - and , hence , may feel somewhat disjointed . The narrative , however , takes care to include as many social plagues as possible - underage delinquents involved in snatch-and-grab cases , a gang-rape , a drug-overdose victim , a hold-up from a post office ( which our hero manages to disrupt virtually single-handed ) , etc . Besides , while the requisite romantic subplot does come in , it's an unusually complicated one - as Tanzi's girlfriend happens to be a magistrate whom he believes to be too lenient , and the couple eventually decide to go their separate ways . That said , I feel that the climactic showdown between Merli and Milian comes up a bit short in comparison with the action sequences throughout the rest of the film . Still , the film is quite often hilarious : my favorite moment is when Merli blows his top in front of an elderly colleague - but whose meek interjection eventually leads Tanzi to crack the case ! For genre addicts , however , the absolute cult scene in the film is the one in which Milian is made to swallow a bullet by the incensed Merli - but whose tough exterior isn't quite broken in the way the latter had expected , as The Hunchback proceeds to give out a loud hearty burp in defiance ! In the end , I ought to say that I'll be getting to another of Milian's poliziotteschi - EMERGENCY SQUAD ( 1974 ) , where he's actually the cop hero - soon . Also , if my Unwatched DVD backlog hadn't taken a serious beating of late ( I haven't gone through much but DVD-Rs and rentals for some time ! ) , I would have been inclined to schedule a second viewing of the film ( also directed by Lenzi ) which contains perhaps his most important role in the genre , i . e . ALMOST HUMAN ( 1974 ) - via the " Special Edition " Italian DVD , which comes with an accompanying Audio Commentary ( not included on the R1 " No Shame " release ) and a second feature ( Sergio Martino's VIOLENT PROFESSIONALS [ 1973 ] ) to boot ! !
MADAME BOVARY ( Jean Renoir , 1933 )	Drastically reduced by more than half its length ( the original cut ran for an incredible three-and-a-half hours ) , this is still an artfully directed but rather cold adaptation of Gustave Flaubert’s famous novel which is , unfortunately , marred by unsympathetic leads ; Valentine Tessier is perhaps too old for the title role and she resorts to rather extreme histrionics at particularly strenuous points in the narrative . From the rest of the cast , those who come off best are Renoir’s own brother , Pierre ( playing the cuckolded Monsieur Bovary ) , Max Dearly ( as Bovary’s anti-clerical friend ) and Pierre Larquey ( as Hippolyte , a man on whom ambitious country doctor Bovary operates unsuccessfully ) . An undeniable sense of anti-clericalism permeates the film both through the character of Homais ( who is often seen discussing philosophical aspects with the Parish Priest ) and especially during the scene in which Emma tries to confide her emotional turmoil to the oblivious Parish Priest . Having already brought NANA to the screen in 1926 , Renoir would adapt yet another celebrated feminist work in the following decade , Octave Mirbeau’s THE DIARY OF A CHAMBERMAID ( 1946 ) , a little-seen adaptation which is not only among the best films Renoir made during his wartime exile in Hollywood but which I actually prefer to Luis Bunuel’s 1964 version ! Furthermore , I have watched two other cinematic renditions of MADAME BOVARY by great directors - Vincente Minnelli’s in 1949 with Jennifer Jones in the title role ( which I have recently acquired on DVD via Warner Bros . ’ " Literary Classics Collection " set ) and the 1991 one helmed by Claude Chabrol ( whom I met very briefly at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ) with Isabelle Huppert as the eponymous heroine . According to the IMDb , there are at least 11 more of them , including a German one in 1937 with Silent film star Pola Negri and two which , judging from the snippets shown on the " After Hours " programme preceding this Italian TV screening of the Renoir version , seem quite intriguing : another German production in 1969 with , of all people , Edwige Fenech ( ! ) and one made for Italian TV with Carla Gravina .
SAFARI EXPRESS ( Duccio Tessari , 1976 )	More by accident than design , my Christmas film viewings this year have been punctuated by a nostalgic flavor which has taken me back to my childhood days , either through films which I haven't watched since ? the Fairy Tale Popeye cartoons , Abbott & Costello's JACK AND THE BEANSTALK ( 1952 ) , the two Lou Ferrigno HERCULES movies , etc . ? or ones which I recall being released theatrically at the time but which I hadn't managed to catch up with until now ( examples of which I should be getting to over this coming weekend ) . It follows , therefore , that the film under review is another one pertaining to the former group : actually , this is the second of two similar movies with the same trio of leads ( albeit two of whom are playing different characters ) and the same African setting ? the first was entitled Africa EXPRESS and had been released the previous year . Giuliano Gemma reprises the role of John Baxter , ex-WWII fighter pilot turned African tourist guide extraordinaire , Ursula Andress is a nurse whose traumatic experience when her missionary camp was attacked by a horde of bloodthirsty natives made her lose her memory and Jack Palance is a shady Dutch engineer with an eye on the uranium supplies recently discovered in the vicinity of that camp . Gemma is flanked by Biba , his amiable chimp companion whose fits of jealousy ( sparked by Gemma , understandably , straying in his affections for it when he meets the sultry Andress ) , drunken antics and " erotic dreams " ( one of which opens the film itself ) are often the source of amusement for the viewer . Although I had also watched its predecessor on Italian TV , it's been so long ago that I can't hope to make any sensible comparisons with this one : still , despite finding the film enjoyable enough today , I guess I was more tolerant of such mindless fare then because it seemed that , even at 93 minutes , the pace dragged slightly in spots ; besides , Palance's come-uppance is pretty lame . For the record , there are also a colorful assortment of supporting characters : Enzo Bottesini as Gemma's greedy , ill-fated partner who , at one point , is involved in a rousing fistfight with Gemma which sees them hitting dining tourists with umbrellas ! ; Giuseppe Maffiolo , also reprising his role of the missionary suffering carnal temptations because of Andress ; Peter Martell - who , Gemma reveals in the DVD supplements , was the first choice for the role of Trinity before having to bail out in favor of Terence Hill because of a broken leg { see my comments above on BLACKIE THE PIRATE [ 1971 ] } - as a real twit of a British sergeant ; an uncredited actor playing the leader of the natives who , of course , is a good friend of Gemma's and who , in his futile attempts to have a male heir , fathered eleven daughters and might well strangle his wife and the witch doctor if the former doesn't deliver next time , etc . The ubiquitous De Angelis brothers , Guido & Maurizio , typically provide a nicely percussive score ? although I wouldn't say this was one of their most memorable works .
ENCORE ( Pat Jackson , Anthony Pelissier and Harold French , 1951 )	The third and final cinematic anthology of W . Somerset Maugham stories ( with the celebrated author turning up to introduce them ) is also the weakest , if still eminently watchable and reasonably entertaining along the way . Again , here we have three tales ( adapted by such noted scribes as T . E . B . Clarke and Eric Ambler , among others ) – while the middle one is virtually the distaff version of " Mr . Know-All " from the previous film , TRIO ( 1950 ) , and the third somewhat insubstantial and melodramatic , the first is one of my favorites from all three compendiums . " The Ant And The Grasshopper " , then , is once more a brilliant showcase for underrated actor Nigel Patrick – he plays the ne’er-do-well younger brother of respected businessman Roland Culver . In the past , the latter had lent his sibling money but now refuses to support him any longer : Patrick retaliates by taking odd jobs unbecoming of the family status but making sure to be seen by Culver , thus embarrassing him at every turn ( the former even contrives an ingenious plan by which to swindle the latter out of yet another sum of money via a third party ) ! Eventually , much to everyone’s surprise , Patrick lands himself a wife who also happens to be one of the richest women in the world – in this way , he’s not only able to repay Culver all his dues but also to retain their family estate . . . which the elder brother had earlier tried to sell off for his own selfish ends ! " Winter Cruise " replaces Nigel Patrick’s sophisticated know-it-all Mr . Kelada with an even more irritating chatterbox i . e . spinsterish coffee-shop owner Kay Walsh , one of the passengers on a ship commandeered by Noel Purcell . When it’s called back to England , since Walsh is the only one with a return ticket ( not having stopped at any port of call during the journey ) , the navy men – including doctor Ronald Squire and engineer John Laurie – are forced to take her along . . . which is a prospect none of them are looking forward to , given the woman’s presumptuous nature ! Therefore , to take stock of the situation , they decide Walsh needs some form of distraction – which arrives via a most unlikely romance supplied by the timid French steward on board ! ! " Gigolo And Gigolette " deals with a couple ( Glynis Johns and Terence Morgan ) engaged at a holiday resort to provide specialist entertainment for the guests – twice per night , she performs a dangerous stunt by diving from a great height into a flaming pool . While some jaded members of the public feel they’re not getting their money’s worth because the show is over all-too-soon , others are morbidly drawn to it in the event that an accident occurs and the girl is killed before their very eyes ! The pressure of having to repeat the drop over and over eventually gives the girl cold feet ( pardon the pun ) ; this is accentuated by a sudden visit from a formerly renowned woman stunt-performer who’s long since been forgotten . Morgan had become used to the idea of making money in this way , and he even negotiates an extension of their contract with the hotel manager – but Johns will have none of it ; after the inevitable row with her husband , in a desperate bid to secure a future for themselves , she gambles all their savings at a casino and loses . Therefore , she resigns herself to the jump without having Morgan at her side – however , he rushes to his wife’s support when the old ex - " Human Cannonball " lady tells him Johns will be carrying on with the act regardless .
GUNG HO ! ( Ray Enright , 1943 )	This fact-based war film ( detailing the first ground assault on Japan following the attack on Pearl Harbor ) is neatly divided into two parts ? showing , first , the specialized training session of the carefully-chosen platoon ( which is quite interesting ) and the mission itself ( displaying fairly standard heroics but well enough done nonetheless ) . The film has been criticized for glamorizing what was essentially a band of cutthroats ( Leonard Maltin even describes it as " a jaw-dropping experience " ) . Still , there was no doubt that any war picture made during this time wouldn't ram propagandist slogans down the audience's throat ( witness Randolph Scott's final straight-into-camera speech ) ; ironically , even if the latter was the film's nominal star , he's rarely involved in the action proper ? being there mainly to co-ordinate things , and repeatedly instigate his men to kill every Jap on the island ! ) . The supporting cast is good , made up of veteran character actors ? J . Carroll Naish , Sam Levene ? and newcomers ? notably Robert Mitchum ; however , a fair share of the running-time is unwisely devoted to the romantic triangle involving a girl and two soldiers who happen to be half-brothers ( one of them played by Noah Beery Jr . ) ? all of which has a quite deadening effect on the main narrative ! Despite being a relatively early WWII film , the action sequences are surprisingly gutsy ? though accentuated on occasion by obvious stock footage .
IL SECONDO TRAGICO FANTOZZI ( Luciano Salce , 1976 )	The second , and arguably the best , entry in the FANTOZZI series is basically more of the same but here the results are even livelier and funnier . It goes without saying that all of the following are better watched and heard than read about and a knowledge of the Italian language is compulsory for fully appreciating this series in particular and most Italian comedies in general but , for what it's worth , here are the highlights of the film under review : 1 ) A superstitious boss takes Fantozzi to a gambling casino where the latter is mistaken for a homosexual and is subsequently forced by his boss to drink a case of sparkling water which inevitably causes Fantozzi to emit a gargantuan belch2 ) The hunt which turns into a veritable battleground ( complete with war tanks ) and with the hunters eventually shooting on one another3 ) The masterstroke of the film is the sequence which shows Fantozzi revolting against a film-fanatic superior of his when the employees are forced to watch Sergei Eisenstein's THE BATTELSHIP POTEMKIN ( 1925 ) for the nth time while there is an Italy vs . England football match being shown live on TV at the same time ; Fantozzi blows his top and exclaims the immortal phrase : " For me , THE BATTLESHIP POTEMKIN is crazy s " which is met by a flurry of applause by his ( for once ) appreciative colleagues , after which the superior's personal copy of the film is burnt and he is then himself forced to watch for three days running GIOVANNONA LONG-THIGH ( 1972 ) , THE EXORCIST - Italian STYLE ( 1975 ) and a fictitious poliziottesco THE COPS ARE MAD ! ; the employees ' eventual punishment is a weekly re-enactment of the famous Odessa steps sequence from Eisenstein's film with Fantozzi invariably being given the role of the baby in the ill-fated carriage ! By the way , another favorite film of the superior to which the employees are often subjected to is Carl Dreyer's DAY OF WRATH ( 1943 ) ! 4 ) Fantozzi receives free tickets for a circus performance during a period of sickness but decides to attend just the same highly camouflaged but , of course , he is immediately recognized by a superior of his and so tries to pass himself off as a circus performer with increasingly disastrous results including being fired from a cannon5 ) A visit to a brothel with Reder and Anatrelli ends with the former in hospital ( suffering the ire of a horde of unpaid taxi drivers ) and Fantozzi himself sleeping outside his own flat as a watchdog ( while the latter , who has since married Mazzamauro , goes on about his business on the inside with one of the girls they picked up ) 6 ) A disastrous escapade with Mazzamauro shows Fantozzi incompetently performing several extreme physical feats so as to prove to her that he is even better than her husband7 ) In the final sequence . Fantozzi goes back to work for the company as a human shield against lightning !
THE APPALOOSA ( Sidney J . Furie , 1966 )	Yet another film from Brando's lean years ; now , I only have THE UGLY American ( 1963 ; also included in Universal's " The Marlon Brando Franchise Collection " ) to watch from this period ? but , all in all , it's an underrated phase for the celebrated method actor . Incidentally , it was nice to see such long-term Universal regulars as composer Frank Skinner ( SON OF FRANKENSTEIN [ 1939 ] ) , editor Ted Kent ( BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN [ 1935 ] ) and make-up man Bud Westmore ( ABBOTT AND COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN [ 1948 ] ) still involved in high profile productions such as this one after all those years . Anyway , Brando made only three Westerns in his career ? the others being the self-directed ONE EYED JACKS ( 1961 ) and Arthur Penn's THE MISSOURI BREAKS ( 1976 ) ? but they're among the more intriguing , if pretentious , from their respective eras ; having said that , the film under review is easily the least rewarding of the three . The simple plot finds aspiring rancher Brando falling foul of small-time Mexican tyrant John Saxon over the former's appaloosa stallion ( later on , Saxon's girl , Anjanette Comer ? who does what she can with a basically underwritten role ? becomes the object of contention between the two ) ; beaten up by Saxon's men and his prize horse stolen , Brando follows in pursuit ? ignoring the advise of friend Rafael Campos and a goat herder ( Frank Silvera ) , he encounters on the way . Reaching the town where Saxon lives with his band of cut-throats , Brando tries to pass himself off as a local ( by affecting a silly Mexican accent whose inspiration seems to have been Speedy Gonzales ! ) ; it doesn't take long for Saxon to discover his ruse and , when he does , challenges the star to a game of arm-wrestling ( with a sting in its tail ) ! Brando loses and is beaten up again , after which Comer ? fed up with her own way of life ? takes him to Silvera's place to recover ; catching up with the latter , Saxon's men kill him because he won't reveal the rancher's whereabouts but they're eliminated soon after by Brando himself . Finally , a showdown between the two parties takes place in the mountains . Thematically , THE APPALOOSA - which celebrated film critic Pauline Kael had dismissed as " a dog of a movie about a horse " and whose title was , understandably changed to SOUTHWEST TO SONORA for its British theatrical release ? doesn't really cover any new ground despite Brando and director Furie's attempts to respectively infuse meaning into every gesture and shot . The latter was known for his flashy camera stylistics , and he really goes overboard here ( placing characters in the extreme foreground when the main action is occurring in the remaining part of the frame ? including the very last shot ? or choosing bizarre angles ? such as a tilted shot during the arm-wrestling bout from the POV of a scorpion ! ) ; with this in mind , I had become even more interested in checking this one out after learning how Italian B-movie exponent Enzo G . Castellari drew on it for his impressive latter-day Spaghetti Western KEOMA ( 1976 ) on the Audio Commentary of that film's R1 Anchor Bay DVD . All of this ? plus Saxon's enjoyably hammy , Golden Globe-nominated performance ( with an exaggerated Mexican accent to match ) ? keeps one watching , even when the pace flags or the plot turns dreary . Brando is said to have agreed to do this principally because he needed the cash to pay in alimony for his two ex-wives and that he quickly lost interest in the project ( to the consternation of his producer and director ) ; consequently , his contribution is atypically understated ? thus allowing co-star Saxon to walk away with the film ! Nevertheless , the confrontation scenes between their two characters constitute definite highlights ( and the climax is nicely handled ? kudos , in fact , to Russell Metty's cinematography throughout ) ; otherwise , Silvera and popular Mexican actor / director Emilio Fernandez ( perhaps still best-known for playing General Mapache in Sam Peckinpah's THE WILD BUNCH [ 1969 ] and here appearing as Saxon's right-hand man ) are notable among the supporting cast .
The Bride With White Hair ( Ronny Yu , 1993 )	Colorful Asian fantasy with the emphasis on romance and fanciful action ; enjoyable enough in itself but not particularly compelling . The plot and look of the film reminded me of the " Chinese Ghost Story " Trilogy ( 1987-91 ) , which I watched ? and loved ? only a few years back , while the gravity-defying stunts looked forward to Ang Lee's ( obviously more accomplished ) CROUCHING TIGER , HIDDEN DRAGON ( 2000 ) . As is the norm for this sort of film , the characters are all stock types ( the nasty Siamese-twin villains being a particular liability ) ? which means that , for all the pseudo-philosophy which gets spouted ( usually by elders ) from time to time , the tale follows a rigid , rather simplistic and all-too-familiar path which doesn't allow for much depth or surprise ? though " The Bride With White HaIr " herself ( when she belatedly appears ) is a memorable creation ? and I wouldn't mind catching up eventually with this film's sequel ( from the same year and director ) .
NIGHT KEY ( Lloyd Corrigan , 1937 )	Initially , I had scoffed at this title's inclusion in Universal's " The Boris Karloff Collection " Set - but it turned out to be a ' B ' film with plenty of interest : a fast-moving crime drama which leaves room for characterization , featuring a very good atypical performance by Karloff ( playing an inventor far older than his current age ) . The film ( which demonstrates a novel obsession with gadgetry ) could easily have seen the star turned into a criminal mastermind or another mad scientist-type - but he remains a victim , a pawn in the hands of unscrupulous manufacturer Samuel S . Hinds and baby-faced racketeer Alan Baxter . Romantic leads Jean Rogers and Warren Hull are actually quite appealing and the supporting cast includes Edwin Maxwell as Karloff's double-crossing lawyer , Ward Bond as one of Baxter's henchman and Hobart Cavanaugh - who actually steals the film - as a small-time hood who finds himself an unlikely partner to Karloff ( his character , nicknamed " Petty Louie " , has a penchant for slang with " Are we in ? " and " It's in the bag ! " as his favorite phrases ) .
THE PACIFIST ( Miklos Jancso ' , 1970 )	As I’d written in previous reviews for other Jancso ' films , I had missed out on an opportunity to watch this one on late-night Italian TV ; given that the first edition of the Italian DVD itself is out-of-print and also in view of the fact that I’ve recently acquired a number of the director’s works on disc , I opted to add it to my DVD collection now rather than wait for another broadcast of the film ( which , for all I know , might never happen ! ) . Typically for Jancso ' , very little was available to me on the printed page except for a succinct entry on Marco Giusti’s " Starcult " guide wherein he describes the film as being , " . . . frightfully enjoyable . . . ridiculous . . . exasperating . . . sincere . . . ( it was ) totally rejected at the time " . In any case , having now made a fair idea of what the Hungarian director’s style is all about ( albeit this being his first of four films made in Italy ) – plus the fact that I’ve watched a few of the " Political Revolution " films made in the wake of the famous May 1968 events ( of which THE PACIFIST is an example ) – I knew more or less what to expect from it . Thankfully , the film is short enough at 83 minutes ( and sparked by occasional humor ) not to become overly oppressive – since , needless to say , it’s rather hard-tack as entertainment : obviously didactic in nature to begin with but also considering Jancso'’s customary ( i . e . curiously aloof ) approach to things ! For marquee value , it features two popular names and faces of the era – Monica Vitti and Pierre Clementi ; the latter’s characteristic mix of arrogance and earthiness is ideal for this environment ( in fact , he had already appeared in Bernardo Bertolucci’s similar but even more opaque PARTNER [ 1968 ] ) . . . but Vitti seems ill-at-ease with the demands of the leading role . She plays a TV reporter who becomes involved with revolutionary-bum Clementi : at first , he seems to be stalking her – and , being afraid , reports him to the police ; however , when he’s caught and brought before her for identification , she claims it was somebody else ! After this , she invites him to live with her but , before long , his companions turn up , admonishing him for having balked from doing his duty ( among them is Daniel Olbrychski who , curiously enough , goes uncredited here : for the record , the Polish actor appeared in two other Jancso ' films – AGNUS DES [ 1970 ] , which I haven’t watched , and ROME WANTS ANOTHER CAESAR [ 1974 ] ) . Clementi was supposed to kill a man as a sure sign of his devotion to the ‘cause’ – and , for failing to deliver on his promise , his former friends offer him a way out by playing at Russian roulette ! Vitti leaves intent on setting the law after them but , on arriving at Police Headquarters , the Commissioner takes her for a neurotic ! ; by then , Clementi has been executed regardless – and , noticing that Olbrychski has followed her there , Vitti shoots him ( thus causing a commotion ) . I have to say , though , that one of the reasons Vitti’s performance feels artificial is due to the fact that her distinctively plaintive voice is inexplicably dubbed on the Alan Young R2 DVD edition I watched ! I know that the custom in Italian cinema at the time was to shoot without sound and then recreate the dialogue track later in the studio . . . but , ironically , Vitti can still be heard on the trailer ! ! Considering that the print was reportedly culled from the original negative , I wonder whether the ‘re-dubbing’ was done prior to the film’s original release – rather than newly re-recorded specifically for the digital format ( as had been the case with , say , the Italian DVD I rented not too long ago of Mario Bava’s HATCHET FOR THE HONEYMOON [ 1970 ] ) . For what it’s worth , THE PACIFIST is notable for a few inventively-deployed sets ( Vitti’s home is enveloped by windows as if it were a glass showroom , ditto for a derelict church turned into an impromptu display for the newest fashion in cars ) and a score by Giorgio Gaslini which even includes a couple of pop songs – one of these ( translating to " Stop Raining " ) , incidentally , was adopted on its home ground as a subtitle to the film itself .
DON'T BOTHER TO KNOCK ( Roy Ward Baker , 1952 )	Fox was one of the leading purveyors of film noir during the 1940s and 1950s ? this melodrama is done somewhat in this style , though British director Baker inserts a couple of Hitchcockian touches ( a little girl is about to be thrown out of a window , a pan down to this same child reveals her being tied-up in bed ) . It's compact at a mere 76 minutes , with a FATAL ATTRACTION ( 1987 ) - type plot ( Richard Widmark quarrels with chanteuse Anne Bancroft and flirts with young nanny Marilyn Monroe , who turns out to be mentally unbalanced ? though the eventual violence isn't directed towards him ) occurring in a single setting ? a hotel ? during the course of one night . Both female leads bring a welcome freshness to the proceedings ( Monroe , who is surprisingly good here , would soon reach stardom in the Technicolor but noir-tinged NIAGARA [ 1953 ] ) ; Elisha Cook Jr . ? like Widmark , a genre fixture ? is the hotel's elevator boy and Monroe's well-meaning uncle ; Jim Backus appears as the distressed girl's father ( who has to attend a dinner at ground level ) . The rushed finale sees confused Monroe being talked out of committing suicide by both Widmark and Bancroft ? who , predictably , end up back together .
MAKING " MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS " ( V ) ( Laurent Bouzereau , 2004 )	Ever since the inception of DVD , Laurent Bouzereau has practically cornered the market in featurettes detailing the behind-the-scenes of classic films ; this look into the making of the most commercially successful Agatha Christie adaptation is an exemplary effort , with the participation of several of the people involved ( including director Sidney Lumet , producers John Brabourne and Richard Goodwin , production / costume designer Tony Walton and , of the surviving cast members , Jacqueline Bisset , Sean Connery and Michael York ) . As expected , the many backstage vicissitudes are discussed ( though , frankly , there is little that cannot be easily gleaned from the film's trivia section on IMDb ! ) and , equally unsurprisingly , they all have fond memories of the reasonably arduous shooting ( filming took place all over Europe in a cramped single setting replicating the train compartments and where the schedules of numerous international stars had to be accommodated ) and nothing but praise for the end result . Which , perhaps , is where its main problem lies : a certain lack of objectivity . Also , it is decidedly disappointing not to find Finney among the interviewees or that no mention whatsoever is made of the subsequent Poirot films , especially since the same production team of MURDER itself were also behind the first few of those as well .
NIGHT CHILD ( James Kelly and , uncredited , Andrea Bianchi , 1972 )	I'd always been intrigued by this controversial film , given its cast and subject matter ; being an international production between Spain , Great British and Italy , it was released under various titles ? DIABOLICA MALICIA in Spain , LA TUA PRESENZA NUDA in Italy and several more in English-speaking countries , but perhaps most popularly as the obscure NIGHT HAIR CHILD ( which is how I knew it ) and the lurid WHAT THE PEEPER SAW ; the print I watched , then , omitted the middle word from the former and left it at that ! Anyway , the film is notorious for turning Mark Lester , the cute protagonist from the musical OLIVER ! ( 1968 ) , into a true nightmare of a child : liar , sadist , voyeur , lecher , murderer ! As I said earlier , he's surrounded by other notables : Britt Ekland ( at the height of her beauty ) is his bewildered stepmom ; Hardy Kruger plays the boy's clueless and over-protective father ; and , also appearing in bit parts , are Harry Andrews as the headmaster of Lester's school ( who's forced to expel him due to gross misconduct ) and Lilli Palmer as a psychiatrist ( intending to analyze the boy , she ends up checking in Ekland for treatment ! ) . The film is undeniably sleazy , as we get to see Ekland stripping in front of Lester ( at his behest , but to which she acquiesces in order to get at the truth of his mother's mysterious demise ! ) and even getting into bed with him stark naked ( though this is presented as a mere hallucination on her part , witnessed by a cackling Kruger ! ) ; however , it's lifted out of the exploitation rut by all-round credible performances and a typically nice score by Stelvio Cipriani . The scene , then , in which Lester imagines his mother's corpse ( whom he has callously killed in the film's very opening scene ) in the pool is effectively macabre ; the finale , too , is worth waiting for : the boy almost coerces Ekland ( no sooner has she been released from the asylum ) into murdering Kruger and becoming his lover since he tells her she's closer to his own age ( Lester being 12 and Ekland 22 , while Kruger's 42 ! ) ; she gives him the impression of agreeing with this latest scheme of his but , realizing the kid will never change , Ekland immediately provides herself with the opportunity to get rid of Lester once and for all ? Incidentally , co-director Bianchi would go on to make an even more explicit ' monster child ' effort on his home turf with MALABIMBA ? THE MALICIOUS WHORE ( 1979 ) ; as for Britisher Kelly , his only other film was the passable Tigon production THE BEAST IN THE CELLAR ( 1970 ) . By the way , I have two more of Lester's vintage films to check out ? MELODY ( 1971 ) and another Italian-made " Grindhouse " flick , REDNECK ( 1973 ) ; while I'm at it , I should try to get my hands on EYEWITNESS ( 1970 ) , the well-regarded Hitchcockian thriller he starred in that was entirely filmed in Malta .
NIGHT OF DARK SHADOWS ( Dan Curtis , 1971 )	Well , this was nowhere near as bad as the Leonard Maltin Film Guide claimed ? where it's been unenviably slapped with a BOMB rating ! Nonetheless , I was confused by the fact that , while the events once again take place in the Collinswood manor , there's no mention at all of vampirism ? in fact , the ' villain ' of the piece is a witch who , like Barnabas Collins from HOUSE OF DARK SHADOWS ( 1970 ) , is intent on kindling an unnatural romance with the lookalike descendant of her former lover ( in this case , young painter David Selby ) . Even more baffling is the fact that several actors return from the first film but as totally different characters ( for instance , Grayson Hall is now the enigmatic housekeeper devoted to her former mistress in the best Mrs . Danvers tradition , while Thayer David merely appears in a flashback as the witch's nemesis ! ) ? still , we get here a similar unhinged acolyte played by a different actor who , however , serves no discernible function this time around ! In any case , the hero arrives with a wife ( future Charlie's Angel Kate Jackson ) in tow ? incidentally , his progenitor had also been married to another woman , and the witch was actually his own brother's spouse ! ; Selby , initially mystified by intermittent visions from the past , eventually falls under the witch's spell and retreats to the tower to paint ? barring entry to his wife , whom he begins to neglect and mistreat ( culminating in a murder attempt ! ) . Though hardly original , the plot is more complex ( and , in a way , intriguing ) than that of the previous film ? approximating , in fact , the classic Gothic / romantic melodrama in the tradition of " Jane Eyre " and , as already intimated earlier on , " Rebecca " . The film , therefore , is much more of a mood-piece than its predecessor with the various nightmares , apparitions and other strange occurrences throughout giving the whole an agreeably uncanny , even surreal vibe ; tying in with this , Robert Cobert's evocative score seems even better suited to the tone of this particular film than that of the more genre-specific HOUSE OF DARK SHADOWS . That said , the end result ( at least , judging by the 94-minute Theatrical Release Version under review ? since the ' lost ' Director's Cut was , reportedly , a hefty 129 minutes long ! ) emerges to be vaguely unsatisfactory ( not helped by the less-than-stellar quality of the source , bearing fuzzy credits and a distracting echoey soundtrack ) : for one thing , the ' established ' actors were generally better served by their roles in the first film ? while the new recruits don't exactly set the screen on fire ! The script does take care to provide one final twist leading to a downbeat ' curtain ' ( of the type we have relentlessly suffered from in recent years ? note my comments to the recently-viewed HATCHET [ 2006 ] ) ? though its coda of a newspaper report describing the mysterious road accident in which the central couple's married friends were killed ( but which is then interrupted half-way through ) proves a genuine " What The F ? ! " moment . The film was immediately followed by two distinct theatrical trailers for it , as well as an alternate one for HOUSE OF DARK SHADOWS than what was included on its own edition .
THE GYPSY MOTHS ( John Frankenheimer , 1969 )	I had been underwhelmed by my first viewing of this film but , re-acquainting myself with it now , has proved a relatively more satisfying experience . Director John Frankenheimer here tries to do for sky-diving what he had previously done for motor-car racing in GRAND PRIX ( 1966 ) - which , ironically , would virtually be the last unqualified critical and commercial success he¡¦d enjoy for over 30 years ( as it happens , I've just learned that it'll be released by Warners this year as a 2-Disc Set ! ) - and in the accompanying Audio Commentary states that THE GYPSY MOTHS is one of his own personal favorites ! The actors are all extremely convincing - both established and upcoming stars - managing to overcome the potentially soap opera-ish situations of the script ; apparently , Scott Wilson's role was originally slated for John Phillip Law ( who had to be replaced when he hurt his wrist while performing a stunt for the film ) . This was Lancaster's fifth and final collaboration with Frankenheimer , in which he shares a fairly ridiculous sex scene with Deborah Kerr ( 16 years after their famous clinch on the beach in FROM HERE TO ETERNITY [ 1953 ] ! ) ; incidentally , that same year , she also appeared in the nude alongside Lancaster's old pal Kirk Douglas in Elia Kazan's THE ARRANGEMENT ( 1969 ) . . . and then disappeared from the screen for 16 years ! As a matter of fact , for all the film's air of an old-fashioned melodrama , it's surprisingly " with-it " ( Sheree North is also featured as a performing stripper Gene Hackman picks up in a bar ) . Anyway , the small-town atmosphere is vividly captured ( down to the irascible old coot of a band-leader , actually Lancaster's dialogue coach ! ) and the sky-diving sequences - highlighted by elaborate and spectacular photography - create the appropriate excitement ( even if they do not take up too much of the running time ) . However , the existential undertones ( Lancaster as a taciturn sociopath with a death-wish ; Kerr , trapped in a loveless marriage , consoles herself with the boarders she takes in from time to time ; Hackman , a regular church-goer for all his philandering , getting the shakes the night before the big day , etc . ) are less successful . Still , the film is kept going steadily by virtue of Elmer Bernstein's evocative and memorable score . . .
TORPEDO BAY ( Charles Frend and Bruno Vailati , 1963 )	This Italo-British production feels like the European equivalent of THE ENEMY BELOW ( 1957 ) , adapted from the book " Beta Som " inspired by a true WWII incident . For the record , director Frend had helmed the classic naval drama THE CRUEL SEA ( 1953 ) – whereas Mason had appeared in THE DECKS RAN RED ( 1958 ) ; also , the film is one of a few instances from this era of an Italian co-production with English-speaking countries : two similar war efforts were THE BEST OF ENEMIES ( 1961 ) and THE CAPTIVE CITY ( 1962 ) – both of which , incidentally , co-starred David Niven ( I’ve lost the former many a time on TV , but should be checking out the latter soon ) . Anyway , back to the film at hand : Mason isn’t particularly taxed by his role here , but his graceful presence is a plus to any film ; Lilli Palmer , pushing 50 , is a surprising choice to provide the romantic interest – yet she carries it with elegance and conviction , Andrew Keir appears as Mason’s burly lieutenant ; Geoffrey Keen has a rather memorable role as the nasty head of British Intelligence at Tangier . Gabriele Ferzetti , then , is the rugged captain of the Italian ranks ( who manages to hold his own in Mason’s distinguished company ) ; Alberto Lupo is one of his officers ( later involved with voluptuous chanteuse Valeria Fabrizi ) ; Andrea Checchi is Ferzetti’s ‘contact man’ at the Moroccan port ; and Paul Muller has a small role as the ( surprisingly tolerant ) district Police Commissioner . The two sides’ peculiar attachment to one another is tested during a bar-room brawl ( the Italians stand up for the outnumbered British sailors against the locals ) ; later , the English oblige in the procurement of penicilin to treat a wounded Italian soldier . The film’s adherence to a serviceman’s code of ethics is clearly wishful thinking , but the proceedings come across as reasonably engrossing for all that – while offering a mix of hysteria , irony and sentimentality at the climax . By the way , co-director Bruno Vailati had been the producer of the Riccardo Freda / Mario Bava horror / sci-fi opus CALTIKI , THE IMMORTAL MONSTER ( 1959 ) ; besides , the film's remaining technical credits include at least two other " Euro-Cult " stalwarts in cinematographer Gabor Pogany and composer Carlo Rustichelli .
BLOOD OF THE VAMPIRE ( Henry Cass , 1958 )	Decent Hammer imitation with a script by that studio's chief scribe , Jimmy Sangster . Producers Monty Berman and Robert S . Baker competed with Hammer in the horror stakes during the late 1950s / early 1960s ( with Berman usually doubling also as cinematographer ) via such efforts ? besides the one under review which was actually their first ? as THE TROLLENBERG TERROR aka THE CRAWLING EYE ( 1958 ) , JACK THE RIPPER ( 1959 ) , THE FLESH AND THE FIENDS ( 1960 ) and THE HELLFIRE CLUB ( 1961 ) . Director Cass is best-known ( if at all ) for the Alec Guinness comedy LAST HOLIDAY ( 1950 ) , itself recently retooled for the dubious talents of Queen Latifah ! The film ( which I had been looking forward to for ages after viewing stills from it in critiques of the genre penned by film historian Alan Frank ) is a lurid melodrama in vivid color and with , pardon the pun , full-blooded performances ? but the contrived end result somehow misses the mark . For starters , the script seems uncertain whether it wants to be a Dracula ( given its title and ' bloodthirsty ' villain ) or a Frankenstein ( in view of the villain's guinea-pig experimentations with moribund or dead subjects ) clone ; the fact that it is almost entirely set in a mental institution-cum-prison ( that includes future " Carry On " member Bernard Bresslaw as a rowdy jailbird ) brings forth comparisons with the superior final Hammer Frankenstein entry FRANKENSTEIN AND THE MONSTER FROM HELL ( 1974 ) ! Distinguished thespian Donald Wolfit is surprisingly but effectively cast in the lead , while Victor Maddern has a memorable look as his knife-wielding henchman ( although , again , bearing hideous features that are never explained ) ; future Hammer startlet Barbara Shelley and Vincent Ball ( playing a character saddled with the amusing name of John Pierre ! ) , then , are reasonably appealing as the romantic leads . The rousing score is equally notable ? as is a nasty climax featuring a pack of wild dogs prefiguring the one in Georges Franju's EYES WITHOUT A FACE ( 1959 ) ! Incidentally , there is a very noticeable jump-cut during one of the lab scenes ( suggesting that the film had censorship issues back in the day ) ; incidentally , the Dark Sky DVD ? which cleverly pairs it with the aforementioned THE HELLFIRE CLUB ? amusingly allowed one to watch the show just as if it were playing in an old-fashioned Drive-In ( complete with a host of schlocky trailers , ads and announcements ) ?
GOOD NIGHT , LADIES AND GENTLEMEN ( Luigi Comencini , Nanni Loy , Luigi Magni , Mario Monicelli and Ettore Scola , 1976 )	This was the second of three films I watched in tribute to Luigi Comencini's passing , which happened over the Easter period . It's one of a myriad of portmanteaus to emerge from Italy over the years : usually , these came in the form of a number of sketches on a particular subject ; this one , emanating from the mid-70s - a time of political strife in the country where kidnappings and assassinations were commonplace - it couldn't help being a scathing satire on religion , politics , the legal system and TV . In fact , so single-minded was the concept that a group of top directors and writers received credit for all the various episodes as a sort of co-operative ! For this purpose , some of Italy's finest actors were summoned - Vittorio Gassman , Marcello Mastroianni , Nino Manfredi , Ugo Tognazzi and new comic star Paolo Villaggio . However , as can be expected , the end result is variable - being generally heavy-handed but occasionally inspired . Mastroianni appears in the linking sequence as a flustered TV newscaster ; Gassman's two episodes are rather weak ; Tognazzi also appears in a couple of segments , but is at his best in the one with scatological overtones - where a military hero loses his dignity along with his decorations and most of his clothing prior to a parade and , unable to face up to this humiliation , opts to take his own life ; the same applies for Villaggio's contribution : two episodes , but the one involving the " Disastrometer " quiz show - where the most wretched of three contestants will eventually emerge victorious - proves to be superior ; Manfredi is featured in just one segment , but it's the longest and possibly best one overall - revolving around a battle for the Papacy which descends to base intrigues and , eventually , mass murder ( also proving somewhat prophetic , given Pope John Paul I's mysterious death in 1978 after just 33 days in office ! ) . Two other amusing episodes involve the chaos brought on by a presumed bomb ( with its ironic denouement ) and a critique on outdated court laws - in which an assembly of senile members deliver unintelligible speeches and engage in a dance to an operatic aria ( the scene recalled a similar episode set in the House Of Lords in THE RULING CLASS [ 1971 ] ) . Among the supporting cast are the likes of Adolfo Celi , Senta Berger , and several regulars from Villaggio's popular and long-running " Fantozzi " series ( then just at its beginning ) . Furthermore , two of Italy's major singer-songwriters , Lucio Dalla and Antonello Venditti , were responsible for the soundtrack of GOOD NIGHT , LADIES AND GENTLEMEN .
WIFE FOR SALE ( Giovanni Grimaldi , 1973 )	The star vehicles of Italian actor Lando Buzzanca , who was at the top during the 1970s in a string of sex comedies , were and still are a staple of late-night Italian TV . Although I was mostly familiar with Buzzanca from his smaller but higher profile roles in such classic Italian films like DIVORCE ? Italian STYLE ( 1961 ) and SEDUCED AND ABANDONED ( 1964 ) , I am only vaguely aware ( i . e . by name only ) of those films which sealed his reputation . Starting with a couple of lowbrow spoofs on the James Bond spy extravaganzas in the mid-1960s , he later graduated to the trademark role of a sex-starved and usually cuckolded would-be lothario . The film under review is only the second of these I've watched myself ? the other being Lucio Fulci's THE EROTICIST ( 1972 ) which has curiously enough ( given its limited appeal outside its native country ) been recently issued on R1 DVD . Anyway , the title itself , WIFE FOR SALE , gives one some indication of what this film is about : Buzzanca is a small-time Sicilian industrialist who sees an opportunity for breaking into big business but needs to come up with a not insignificant sum of money as collateral in order to seal the deal . The bank which had promised to help finance him in this regard is controlled by a local billionaire playboy ( a surprising but welcome turn from French actor Jean-Pierre Cassel who had just come off of Luis Bunuel's THE DISCREET CHARM OF THE BOURGEOISE [ 1972 ] ) who is looking to complete his long string of female conquests via Buzzanca's own unattainable wife ( Rosanna Schiaffino ) . The script is fairly intelligent as these things go , maintaining a serio-comic tone throughout with its cynical look at the hedonistic lifestyle of the era ( marked by typically gaudy 1970s fashions ) and leading to a bittersweet ending . The film is aided a good deal by a bouncy score , while also managing a number of amusing vignettes ? particularly those involving Buzzanca's efforts to visit his wife behind Cassel's back ( including dressing up as a bum with clothes borrowed from one of his employees , and which lands him in jail ! ) . For the record , this film's director was unknown to me ? but he seems to have worked a lot with the star ( as can be seen from the various trailers included on the Italian DVD of WIFE FOR SALE ) . Incidentally , I've still got a few more of Buzzanca's vehicles to watch and which I'll hope to get to in due time ?
The Barbarian And The Geisha ( John Huston , 1958 )	Star and director are not exactly in their element throughout this period piece ( set in mid-19th century Japan and based on real events ) – though John Wayne gets to brawl with a dwarf / giant combination ! ; apparently , Huston became fascinated with the country and its culture after viewing Akira Kurosawa’s RASHOMON ( 1951 ) and Teinosuke Kinugasa’s GATE OF HELL ( 1953 ) – in fact , he obtained the services of the latter as a " script supervisor " on this one ! Still , the film is interesting in its depiction of the clash of traditions – especially involving two countries which , a little over a decade earlier , had been deadly enemies – and , in any case , Japan was a popular venue with Hollywood during this time : witness the two back-to-back Marlon Brando vehicles THE TEAHOUSE OF THE AUGUST MOON ( 1956 ) and SAYONARA ( 1957 ) . The glossy production values ( courtesy of Fox ) make the most of the exotic locations , but the plot itself is rather melodramatic – Wayne’s initially hostile reception , an outbreak of cholera , the assassination of a supportive Japanese leader ( which threatens to throw the country into Civil War ) , an attempt on Wayne’s own life and the failed aggressor’s subsequent seppuku ( which also terminates Wayne’s subtle romance with the geisha of the title ) , etc . Finally , though as I said this is one of Wayne’s most uncharacteristic films ( which I had missed out on countless times in the past but was determined to catch now in commemoration of the 20th anniversary of Huston’s passing ) , it’s certainly not worthy of the same level of disdain as his other Asian flick – Dick Powell’s camp classic THE CONQUEROR ( 1956 ) .
WHITE SLAVE SHIP ( Silvio Amadio , 1961 )	This is another peplum I wasn't previously aware of but should have , since it's also reviewed in Maltin's Film Guide ; however , whereas I agreed with the latter's rating for THE ISLAND PRINCESS ( 1954 ) , I thought this one undeserving of a measly ! Essentially an average but quite lively swashbuckler , its plot deals with an 18th century sea voyage from England to America ? with a shipload of both male and female prisoners destined to be sold as slaves ; along the way , a mutiny takes place ? the film's original title , L'AMMUTINAMENTO , translates to just that ? but the prisoners find as much discord among their own ranks as to the treatment of the crew and passengers , the course they should take , etc . The protagonists are two former Hollywood hopefuls ? Italian Pier Angeli ( here billed under her full name of Annamaria Pierangeli ) and Englishman Edmund Purdom ; however , the two characters ? she's the prize girl of an imprisoned pimp ( who lands in jail with the express purpose of winning herself a place on the ship and liberate him ! ) , while he's a doctor who treated a wounded rebel and was accused of being an accomplice in the conspiracy against the King ? barely interact throughout . In fact , his obligatory romantic interest is supplied by Michele Girardon ( whom I've just rewatched in Luis Bunuel's DEATH IN THE GARDEN [ 1956 ] ) : again , she's given a fairly good role as an aristocratic girl ( whom Purdom initially despises and insults for showing him pity , which leads him to be publicly flogged ) ; incidentally , the pimp himself shows an interest in the girl ( much to Angeli's chagrin ) and the two men eventually contend over her in a fistfight ( which Purdom obviously wins ) . The hero also shares an ambiguous relationship with the ship's captain ( Ivan Desny ) ; when the leader of the mutineers demonstrates himself to be incapable of steering the ship , Purdom has to plead with the imprisoned Desny to take over . The second half does tend somewhat towards histrionics : a baby is born on board ; Angeli is continually shunned by the pimp ( whom she later has no qualms about killing ) ; Girardon's kid brother is after Purdom ? at one point springing at him with a poker ? for ' defiling ' her ; another aristocratic female passenger commits suicide after the leader of the mutineers has made her his concubine , etc . Events come to a head at the climax , when the former male prisoners decide to throw the women overboard indiscriminately in shark-infested waters because the food rations have been severely diminished after a storm ? but Purdom , the captain and what remains of the crew defend them , and the two sides engage in open combat ; a vessel sailing close by witnesses the scene and subsequently picks up the survivors ? asked to identify his companions , Captain Desny refers to the few remaining prisoners merely as fellow passengers . By the way , there were a few unintentionally funny moments throughout : when the captain asks Purdom what has become of his pet parrot , the latter deadpans " Roasted with potatoes on the side " ! ; the doctor later does a double-take when he finds Desny has been forced to assume the duties of butler on his own ship ! ; the leader of the mutineers , then , only decides to personally steer the ship because the ex-prisoner currently at the wheel seems not to even be aware what it's for ! For the record , this is the fourth film from director Amadio that I've watched ? the others were all equally obscure i . e . the peplum WAR GODS OF BABYLON ( 1962 ) , the erotic drama ISLAND OF THE SWEDES ( 1969 ) and the romantic thriller DISPERATAMENTE L'ESTATE SCORSA ( 1970 ) .
THE SONG REMAINS THE SAME ( Peter Clifton and Joe Massot , 1976 )	Despite having been a fan of Led Zeppelin ( owning all of their studio albums on CD ) for the past 13 years and having had this film on VHS for years , it is only now on the occasion of Robert Plant's concert in Malta that I decided to give it a spin . Its somewhat maligned reputation and substantial length is mainly what kept me away for so long but , now that I've seen it , while certainly not the best rock concert movie , it is not worthless either . The band's stage performance itself ( filmed at the Madison Square Garden ) was generally held as being subpar and rumor has it that , for a time , they tried to block this film's release but , again , I'd say their live act is , at the very least , above-average . The movie takes its name from the opening track on the band's then-current 1973 album , " Houses Of The Holy " which I myself found disappointing at first and decidedly anti-climactic after their majestic untitled fourth album ? but I eventually warmed up to the album on subsequent listens . The film contains 10 songs from their first 5 albums ? including the band's signature tunes " Whole Lotta Love " and " Stairway To Heaven " and an overblown nearly half-hour rendition of " Dazed And Confused " ! ? which is occasionally accompanied by fantasy footage of the band members in mythical attire ; I'm not too sure what the idea behind this was but the effect is more distracting than inspiring and , in any case , the best fantasy sequence is at the film's very start with their late drummer John Bonham and their bear-like manager Peter Grant dressed up as mobsters and taking out a rival clan in their hide-out in an outrageously bloody fashion ! P . S . I can't post this review without making a few comments on the Robert Plant concert I attended later on : the 59-year old Plant , understandably no longer the bare-chested Adonis of THE SONG REMAINS THE SAME , took to the stage at around 22 : 40 and proceeded for the next 90 minutes to belt out several tracks from his latest acclaimed solo album , " Mighty Rearranger " , a surprising cover of Love's " 7 And 7 Is " and , naturally , a handful of Led Zeppelin classics which , tinged with his now-trademark World Music rhythms were all but unrecognizable at first ! Curiously enough , he did not elect to sing the band's anthem , " Stairway To Heaven " , or any songs off of my favorite Led Zeppelin record , the 1975 double-album " Physical Graffiti " . Having been preceded by a mini-performance by John Bonham's sister Deborah ( who was quite impressive herself , in a Janis Joplin-way ) , I was half-expecting Plant to duet with her on one of my favorite Led Zeppelin tunes , " The Battle Of Evermore " but , alas , this did not come to pass , either . Amusingly , an hour into the performance , Plant stunned the audience with an abrupt " Goodbye Malta " after which he and his backing band quit the stage ? only to return a couple of moments later for an encore consisting of among others " Whole Lotta Love " which really brought the house down . Finally , an unexpected personal thrill I had during the concert was getting to meet , indirectly , John Bonham's mother ? who was there to support her daughter and , despite being in her late seventies ( I guess ) , could be seen to mildly headbang and sway to the music all through her set ! !
RED PSALM ( Miklos Jancso ' , 1972 )	In the book " 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die " eminent film critic Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote about RED PSALM being " . . . dazzling . . . awesome . . . ravishing . . . striking . . . it may well be the greatest Hungarian film of its time . . . " ; conversely , Miklos Jancso'’s acknowledged masterpiece THE ROUND-UP ( 1965 ) – which I adore – is conspicuous by its absence in that singular pantheon . Besides , the late great film critic Raymond Durgnat wrote extensively about this film in his very last article published in 2002 . Furthermore , Jancso ' won the best direction prize at the Cannes Film Festival when Joseph Losey ( whom I admire a great deal ) was the President of the Jury and where RED PSALM was competing against such remarkable contenders as Robert Altman’s IMAGES , Harry Kumel’s MALPERTUIS , Peter Medak’s THE RULING CLASS and Andrei Tarkovsky’s SOLARIS ! Why is it , then , that my star rating is such a lowly one ? There is no doubt in my mind that this is a key work in the director’s canon ( which makes my underwhelmed reaction all the more painful to me ) but , frankly , this is truly a case where form completely overpowers content or , to put it in the apposite layman’s terms , a film which can only be admired but not enjoyed . The main reason for this is that the entire running time ( a relatively modest 81 minutes in PAL mode ) is taken up by Jancso'’s obsession with politics and folklore with no space left for any real characters to emerge much less a discernible plot line . This would hardly be a problem in itself where it not for the fact that when somebody takes a break from the constant – and by now familiar – communal dancing marathons ( which , thankfully , does mean that some of the typically stunning girls get to shed their clothing ) , they do so only to spout a litany of Communist diatribes which completely wear the viewer ( and the film itself ) down before long . Although Jancso'’s exuberant visual style always had a certain aloofness to it , I really didn’t connect at all with any of the characters or events depicted here . In fact , I’d go so far as to say that this is one time where the English subtitles ( which , in themselves , are grammatically awkward and replete with spelling mistakes ) distinctly felt like an intrusion and their verbosity detracted from the power of the meticulously composed images . Consequently , one’s enjoyment of the film as a whole suffers for it and given the generic , prosaic nature of the dialogue , I might well consider watching the film unsubtitled in the future ! Amusingly enough , however , the Catholic prayer of Our Father is even blasphemously transformed into a Communist credo at one point . Still , this is not to say that the film is completely worthless : the rebelling peasant farmers sing various songs ( a couple of which are in English ) that , while lyrically are merely propagandistic , are also melodically haunting . Given Jancso'’s penchant for lengthy , traveling sequence-shots ( the film is said to contain a mere 26 in all ! ) which are , essentially , its true raison d’etre , some striking images can’t help but stand out , in particular the burning of a church by the peasants and their eventual massacre by the landowners’ army of defenders . Even more remarkable is Jancso ' fusing his historical recreation with unexpected but decidedly welcome fantasy elements which sees dead people coming back to life with a kiss and , in an unheralded uproar to which nobody retaliates , an incensed peasant woman shoots several soldiers in quick succession single-handedly , etc . As a result of my disappointing viewing of RED PSALM , I have decided to to take a sabbatical from Jancso ' for now and postpone the three other films of his that I have in my possession to a later date ( by which time , nevertheless , hopefully I would have acquired two more ) . . .
CARRY ON SERGEANT ( Gerald Thomas , 1958 )	The first " Carry On " is not among the best : it's an all-too-typical army comedy , albeit an agreeable one . William Hartnell stars as a Sergeant about to retire but who has yet to win a contest for leading his barracks ' finest platoon , so he determines to achieve just this with his last batch of recruits ? unfortunately for him , these include Kenneth Connor , Kenneth Williams , Charles Hawtrey , Bob Monkhouse , Terence Longdon and Norman Rossington ( actually , such a dumb subject that he's been rejected by several previous outfits and has been stranded in the camp ever since ) ! As can be seen , this same plot would eventually be worked into two later series outings ? CARRY ON TEACHER ( 1959 ) , down to the sentimental ending , and CARRY ON , CONSTABLE ( 1960 ) , with Eric Barker once again as the disciplinarian but flustered Captain . Shirley Eaton provides the eye-candy as Monkhouse's fresh bride , who contrives to get a job in the barracks ' kitchen in order to be near him ; her companion , ugly-duckling Dora Bryan , has set her eyes on hypochondriac Connor ( who is forever appearing before medical officer Hattie Jacques with some mysterious ailment or other , until she decides to have him undertake a thorough test by several specialists so as to declare him physically fit once and for all ! ) . Hawtrey is typically bumbling ; Williams scores best as a smug , know-it-all recruit ( he plays it quite straight and , again , variations of this were seen in CARRY ON NURSE [ 1959 ] and CARRY ON , CONSTABLE ) . Needless to say , once the boys realize what the outcome of their training would mean for the long-suffering Hartnell , they put their best foot forward to send him home with his well-deserved prize in tow .
BETWEEN HEAVEN AND HELL ( Richard Fleischer , 1956 )	I rented this on DVD in honor of director Fleischer's passing a week ago . While it's not among the best of its kind , this underrated war flick is quite well done in most respects - notably the cinematography , in color and Cinemascope , by Leo Tover . Still , with a title like that - as well as its flashback structure and the inspired use of " Dies Irae " on the soundtrack ( given a military arrangement ! ) - one feels that the film had pretensions above its station , which neither hesitant scripting nor the generous budget of a major studio ( Fox ) could hope to accommodate ! That said , the film features a plethora of gripping action sequences and a solid cast , led by Robert Wagner in a better-than-expected performance as the callous - landowner - turned - jittery - soldier and featuring , among others , Mark Damon ( whom I saw in person at the 2004 Venice Film Festival , where he was invited to introduce Vittorio Cottafavi's delightful picaresque epic I CENTO CAVALIERI aka SON OF EL CID [ 1965 ] ! ) . Indeed , one might say that BETWEEN HEAVEN AND HELL only falters whenever the narrative feels the need to return to Wagner's civilian life . . . which almost turns the film into one of those novelettish upper-crust domestic sagas that were popular Hollywood fixtures around this same time !
STREET LAW ( Enzo G . Castellari , 1974 )	Between the mid-1950s and mid-80s , Italian cinema was replete with imitations of big Hollywood box-office successes and this one here is not just a surprisingly decent DEATH WISH ( 1974 ; released a mere three months earlier ! ) clone but one of the better poliziotteschi I've watched so far . Besides , it is the second of ten collaborations between star Franco Nero and director Castellari - of which I've caught up with 3 and will soon also get to THE SHARK HUNTER ( 1979 ) and KEOMA ( 1976 ) ! Aren't you all envious ? After an overly intense opening 15 minutes ( which occasionally gives rise to some unintentional hilarity ) in which we witness everyman Nero being repeatedly victimized by a band of vicious criminals , he decides to take the matter into his own hands , defying the careless ( and quite possibly complicit ) police force and tracking down his oppressors for one final showdown . Through the course of the film , Nero forms an uneasy alliance with a professional thief ( Giancarlo Prete ) who pays for his treason with his life , alienates his girlfriend ( a pre-Mrs . Ringo Starr Barbara Bach - incredibly , she kept starring in Italian potboilers even after becoming a Bond Girl in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME [ 1977 ] ) and coerces the Italian underworld into a manhunt within its own ranks a ' la Fritz Lang's M ( 1931 ) ! The score by frequent Castellari collaborators , Guido and Maurizio De Angelis , is an effective one , except when relying on an almost unintelligible song warbled in broken English . . . which is all the more ironic when one knows that Hollywood musicals often suffered the ignominy of having their classic songs dubbed into Italian when screened on TV ! On the other hand , I cannot imagine that a film like this ( with its frequent use of Italian swear words and dialect ) would be as enjoyable in English which , unfortunately , is how it is presented on the Blue Underground DVD . Luckily , I watched it on my VHS copy recorded recently off Italian TV but , of course , I'm missing the Enzo G . Castellari Audio Commentary . . .
ST . IVES ( J . Lee Thompson , 1976 )	Even if not filmed in that recognizable style , this thriller's plot could be deemed noir-ish ? with Charles Bronson as the outwardly cool but increasingly bewildered hero , and where the Jacqueline Bisset character is eventually revealed as a femme fatale . This was the star's first of 9 films with director Thompson , and it's also one of his better vehicles ( which , again , I had inexplicably missed out on several times on TV in the past ) . Generally enjoyable and fast-paced , though needlessly convoluted , it definitely benefits from a strong cast ? including John Houseman as the mysterious old man ( and something of a Silent movie aficionado ) who gives Bronson a deceptively simple assignment which soon turns deadly ; Maximilian Schell as Houseman's physician ( suffering from a bad cold throughout ) who also transpires to be not quite what he seems ; ditto Tweedle-Dee and Tweedle-Dum cops Harry Guardino and Harris Yulin ; Burr De Benning as a traffic cop with ambitions above his station ; Dana Elcar as a sympathetic Police Captain ; Michael Lerner ( who appears far too briefly ) as Bronson's flustered lawyer ; genre stalwart Elisha Cook Jr . as a hotel desk-clerk who's perennially asleep on the job , and even Jeff Goldblum and Robert Englund as thugs ( who contrive to throw Bronson down an elevator shaft ) ! There's also a good , upbeat score by Lalo Schifrin . Though the all-important drive-in sequence towards the end becomes unintentionally amusing ? when the same stampede sequence ( as far as I could tell , it's taken from the Warners-produced John Wayne vehicle CHISUM [ 1970 ] ) is repeated over and over ! ? the film makes up for this with the busy climax , which as I said , provides a number of twists . It's capped , then , by a wonderful coda involving Bronson's bemused reaction to the incorrigible Bisset's wiles ( he leaves her in the embarrassed Elcar's custody ) .
SQUIRM ( Jeff Lieberman , 1976 )	This horror film was surprisingly enjoyable , thanks in large part to its tongue-in-cheek approach ( the Audio Commentary is equally self-effacing , thankfully ) . The low-budget is evidenced by the scarcity of special effects but the Southern atmosphere is well captured ( perhaps too well , as the drawling accents take some getting used to ! ) . Lieberman admits to being influenced by THE BIRDS ( 1963 ) , which I had already noticed while watching the film . While the male lead is amiable enough , his female counterpart proved somewhat pedestrian and , in fact , her dopey sister is far more appealing . The film provides two different villains - Roger ( creepy in the latter stages , especially his worm-like crawl up the stairs and when his face appears at the window ; also interesting is the shot where he shields his face from the light ) and the Sheriff ( something of a caricature but certainly adds to the fun , especially when Don Scardino mimics his movements as soon as his back is turned ) ; the mother is also fairly hilarious , though one feels it was unintentional ( and Lieberman himself seems to concur ) . As for the worms , they're pretty disgusting , especially when seen in large numbers ! The music score ( especially the unexpected use of a children's ditty ) is quite effective . I had been somewhat let down by Lieberman's BLUE SUNSHINE ( 1977 ) - though Synapse's presentation was stellar ; this one is not markedly superior though a lot more fun , all things considered . As for Media Blasters ' JUST BEFORE DAWN ( 1980 ) , the director's other notable horror film , I've never purchased - despite its being lavished with a 2-Disc release - due to the reportedly poor quality of the print utilized and , even worse , the fact that it was slightly trimmed !
Wayne And Shuster Take An Affectionate Look At W . C . Fields ( TV ) ( Norman Campbell , 1966 )	Included as a supplement on Universal's 5-Disc Set THE W . C . FIELDS COMEDY COLLECTION VOL . 2 , this was an episode from a series of TV shows in which comedians Johnny Wayne ( ! ! ) and Frank Shuster paid tribute to comic giants of the past . Basically , it's a collection of classic scenes from some of Fields ' pictures - with the occasional interpolation from the hosts related to Fields ' biography ( unhappy childhood , Ziegfeld Follies performer , etc . ) which , essentially , influenced him in the creation of his unique on-screen characterizations . While the show included choice sequences from films that are included in both this and the previous set , I was especially grateful for the inclusion of scenes from two Fields titles which have so far eluded me - the compendium film IF I HAD A MILLION ( 1932 ) and MISSISSIPPI ( 1935 ) . Ultimately , this isn't exactly an in-depth look at Fields ' M . O . but the comedy sketches themselves are certainly hilarious .
COP IN BLUE JEANS ( Bruno Corbucci , 1976 )	Surprisingly engaging poliziottesco spoof which actually led to a series , all featuring star Tomas Milian as maverick cop Nico Giraldi ; in fact , a total of 11 films were made between 1976 and 1984 ! I know a few of them turned up on Italian TV as a kid but I had always considered them - and Milian's other contemporaneous series revolving around a character nicknamed " Monnezza " ( Italian slang for " garbage " ) , but which lasted for only 3 ' episodes ' - low-brow , indeed bottom-of-the-barrel , stuff ; considering that their titles - and I'm sure plot lines - were basically interchangeable certainly makes their longevity astounding ! Well , action-packed though it is - with the star ( playing a street-wise ex-delinquent dressed as a bum with a mouse , Serpico , for a pet ! ) going through many a stunt on a motor-bike - the film's most prominent trait is its vulgarity which doesn't merely extend to a proliferation of colorful swearwords ; indeed , the very first scene shows a chubby young man mooning a group of Japanese tourists from across the street , in order to distract them while his accomplices make off with their luggage in a van ! As such , the film is enjoyable in an unassuming way - though the muddy soundtrack and the characters ' frequent resort to the use of dialect made the dialogue a bit of a chore to understand , even for one who's fluent in the language like myself ! - and it's certainly made even more tolerable by the presence of a predictably ruthless Jack Palance ( whose real identity proves quite a revelation ! ) . The finale , then , is at once amusing and clever in that Milian - assigned to a special squad dealing with " snatch & grab " cases , hence the original title SQUADRA ANTISCIPPO - resorts to just such a crime in order to help his lovely girlfriend , whose job it is to smuggle provocative literature into the country ! ; they had met when Milian saved the girl from being raped : keeping her watch and other valuables in her bra , he wonders what she'd say if someone asked her the time , perhaps " a quarter to tits " ? ! P . S . at one point , Milian says " La Polizia Ringrazia " ( The Police Is Thankful ) - which happens to be the title of the 1972 film ( released in the U . S . as EXECUTION SQUAD ) credited with kick-starting the poliziottesco subgenre !
ON OUR MERRY WAY ( King Vidor , Leslie Fenton and , uncredited , John Huston and George Stevens , 1948 )	This odd , freewheeling , independently-made compendium film emerges as little more than a glorified home movie ( despite the considerable talent involved ) but is certainly watchable and entertaining in itself . The linking narrative revolves around married couple Burgess Meredith and Paulette Goddard ( at the time hitched in real life ) : she's an artist and he a lowly employee with a newspaper aspiring to be a journalist ; while attempting to flee a creditor , he meets and interviews a number of people about the influence of children in their lives . The three ' stories ' are quite nice with all the various performers contributing generous and relaxed cameos : the first concerns down-and-out musicians Henry Fonda and James Stewart and their involvement in an instrumental contest taking place in a small town ( they're all too ready to appease the mayor who has promised them a lot of money if his son is allowed to win but , thanks to the intervention of trumpeter Harry James , a multi-talented girl emerges the clear winner and eventually becomes the owner of Fonda and Stewart's band ! ) ; the second finds Dorothy Lamour parodying her former image of a sarong girl ( she's a bit player whose opportunity for stardom finally arises out of a disastrous stint in a vehicle for a spoilt child star ) ; the last story , reminiscent of O . Henry's " The Ransom Of Red Chief " ( later filmed by Howard Hawks ) , involves ex-con magician Fred MacMurray and how he and his partner William Demarest stumble upon a boy in the woods and are continually outwitted by him ( he's actually fleeing from his eccentric banker uncle but MacMurray eventually discovers his true identity and , in the end , the boy and his elder sister join in on the magic act ) .
GAMBLER'S CHOICE ( Frank McDonald , 1944 )	This Chester Morris vehicle is superior to AERIAL GUNNER ( 1943 ) ? it's made by practically the same people ? but still emerges as nothing special . The film follows the familiar plot line of MANHATTAN MELODRAMA ( 1934 ) ? two childhood friends grow up to be on opposing sides of the law , one a cop ( Russell Hayden ) and the other a gambler ( Morris ) ; of course , they both happen to love the same girl ( Nancy Kelly , whom I should be watching soon in her most important ? and Oscar-nominated ? role in THE BAD SEED [ 1956 ] ) and , by the end of it , Morris has seen the error of his ways and gives his life ? and gal ? for his best pal . Actually , the early 20th century New York atmosphere is vividly recreated on a shoestring ? and Morris struts in clear imitation of James Cagney ( who starred in the similar ANGELS WITH DIRTY FACES [ 1938 ] ) ; his character's epitaph , then , is borrowed from another Cagney vehicle ? THE ROARING TWENTIES ( 1939 ) . Featured in the colorful supporting cast are Sheldon Leonard ( as Morris ' business rival ) , Tom Dugan ( as Morris ' right-hand man ) , Lee Patrick ( as Morris ' financier ) , Lloyd Corrigan ( as Kelly's politician father ) and , in minor roles , Jimmy Conlin , Lyle Talbot and Dewey Robinson . Interestingly enough , the script was a combination of the writing talents of James Edward Grant , Irving Reis and Maxwell Shane ( who also had a similar credit on AERIAL GUNNER ) .
SEXY SISTERS ( Jesus Franco , 1977 )	Following a number of disappointments viewing some highly-regarded Jess Franco movies , I warily approached this Erwin C . Dietrich production - which came none too soon , considering that I'd had the VHS of SEXY SISTERS for six days before I could summon enough courage to try it ! It's similar to SINFONIA EROTICA ( 1979 ) in that its characters are motivated either by greed or sexual frustration , and in its general depravity . Like SINNER ( 1972 ) , then , while the film purports to be the character study of a single nymphomaniac , sex is virtually the only thing all the characters - and , by extension , the director himself - think about ! ; having four women in the brew , for instance , was a bit much , though the nurse's character ( torn between her ' boss ' , Jack Taylor , and her genuine feeling for Karine Gambier ) is quite interesting . The formal look of the film ( especially interesting is the interior design of the sisters ' mansion with its proliferation of feline imagery ) extends itself to the trim plot line , the effective but unobtrusive score and the generally balanced performances ( though it must be said that no member of the cast is particularly taxed by the level of acting necessitated by the film ) . Pamela Stanford gives a fine ' bad girl ' performance in the style of Britt Nichols from A VIRGIN AMONG THE LIVING DEAD ( 1971 ) . The predictable ' climax ' , however , ends the film on a bit of a whimper : a more dramatic conclusion would not have been amiss . It's superficial in comparison with other Franco films , but made in a refreshingly self-mocking way ( the early scene involving Stanford and the gear-shift of a car , the ' mannerisms ' of the numerous studs who ' visit ' Gambier { reminiscent of the campy sex films being made contemporaneously by Russ Meyer in the US } , the unorthodox way in which Taylor takes Gambier's temperature ) that it's not really oppressive - despite the extensive nudity involved - as others I've watched had been . The relationship between the two sisters does not convince , however - particularly their age difference ( which cannot be great ) as revealed in a flashback . Besides Gambier does not display enough charisma to sustain her basically one-dimensional role ( unlike Monserrat Prous in SINNER and Lina Romay in SINFONIA EROTICA ) ; in fact , her constant ' whining ' becomes fairly annoying - to say nothing of unintentionally funny - after a while ! The film really falls to pieces every time the characters open their mouths . . . to speak , that is ; for a sex film , it's got an awful lot of dialogue - and practically all of it's silly , would-be titillating talk ! I watched this via a 20-year old VHS : hideously dubbed as always ; non-OAR ; occasionally fading colors ; and , most surprising of all , no credit titles ! Even if the film has been released on DVD as part of VIP's " The Jess Franco Collection " , it's not substantial enough to merit a purchase from me . . .
SIMON BOLIVAR ( Alessandro Blasetti , 1969 )	To begin with , I had never heard of this one before its late-night screening on Italian TV not too long ago ; the sole appraisal I read about it back then gave the film ? revolving around the struggle under the titular general to unite the South American countries into repelling the Spanish oppressors ? the thumbs down but I have to say that I liked it well enough . Incidentally , it proved distinguished director Blasetti's swansong ? a return to the epic scale of his most famous productions i . e . THE IRON CROWN ( 1941 ) and FABIOLA ( 1948 ) , though certainly not up to them despite effort all round . Maximilian Schell makes a fine , thoughtful lead ; he is supported by the likes of Rosanna Schiaffino ( as the unfulfilled wife of an enemy officer who becomes romantically involved with Bolivar ) and Francisco Rabal ( as a peasant leader who , at first , is unwilling to serve under the Venezuelan general but subsequently emerges the most loyal among his allies ) . As a matter of fact , Schell brings together about 5 different factions ? all of whose individual endeavor had proved futile , while as one army they manage to make a considerable dent in the Spanish lines ; that said , Bolivar's zeal ( driving the exhausted soldiers on to further conquests ) is misconstrued even by his own followers and ends up accused of dictatorial presumptions ! Needless to say , the film's tone is heavily redolent of the revolutionary fervor which marked the latter half of the 1960s : in that respect , one can also detect links with the Spaghetti Western subgenre ? particularly in view of a jauntily rousing score by the reliable Carlo Savina . The emphasis here is on impassioned speeches and period detail ( the widescreen location photography is a big plus , too ) rather than sweeping battle scenes yet , when it has to rely upon them , they are still reasonably well-staged .
THE BLACK CASTLE ( Nathan Juran , 1952 )	This is a watchable and entertaining , but also contrived and predictable , Gothic melodrama ; an atmospheric low-budget production with the castle set especially notable , of course - with its dark , cobwebbed dungeons and handy crocodile-pit . Still , as soon as the Universal-International logo came on , I had to smile - the all-too-familiar main theme of THE WOLF MAN ( 1941 ) is heard on the soundtrack ( were they honoring Lon Chaney Jr . ? ) ! The cast list looks impressive on paper but on-screen it's a different thing altogether : Richard Greene is too cheerful a leading man under the circumstances ; Stephen McNally a ripe enough villain ( though , clearly , no match for Charles Laughton in THE STRANGE DOOR [ 1951 ] ) ; Paula Corday makes a lovely damsel-in-distress ; Michael Pate and John Hoyt appear as McNally's grinning , leering henchmen ( the former practically repeats his role from THE STRANGE DOOR - is that typecasting or what ? ) ; but the worst-off are the two ' horror ' stars , who had brought in so much money for the studio back in the day : Boris Karloff spends the first half lurking about the place doing nothing of consequence and only comes to the fore towards the end , while Chaney is even more wasted by essaying the giant / mute / dim-witted / brutish ' caretaker ' part ( or , to be exact , keeper of the dungeons ) - how quickly he slid after ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN ( 1948 ) ! ! The villain's obsession with hunting recalls the Count Zaroff of THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME ( 1932 ) and - though I can't be certain about this - I also feel that the scriptwriter was partly inspired by J . Sheridan LeFanu's " The Room In The Dragon Volant " : not only does Greene hide under the identity of one Richard Beckett ( as the hero of that short story is called ) but he ' cheats ' death - with Karloff's help - in the exact same manner ( though LeFanu has the villains administer the drug to the hero in order to get rid of him ) ! ; incidentally , I had read the story some years back and loved it so much that I even wrote ( with my twin brother ) a screenplay adaptation of it ! !
CARRY ON CRUISING ( Gerald Thomas , 1962 )	With a story by " Carry On " alumnus Eric Barker , this is a fairly weak entry in the series ? and , as I said with respect to ANTS IN THE PANTRY ( 1936 ; The Three Stooges short which preceded it ) , going through a succession of films featuring the same actors , one becomes rather weary of the repetition . In this case , it's the characterization of individual members which hardly changes from one outing to the next ( particularly at this early stage in the series , when the style of comedy more or less followed established rules rather than going all the way for double entendres and general tastelessness ) ! For instance , Sid James is once again the flustered authority figure who has to mould his underlings ? these are forever eager but incompetent , led by know-it-all Kenneth Williams and nervous Kenneth Connor ( who , invariably , is given a hesitant romantic attachment ) ; their effeminate usual cohort , Charles Hawtrey , is absent here but his replacement is the resistibly goofy Lance Percival as the new chef on James ' ship . In fact , what drowns the film ( pardon the pun ) is the latter's schtick ? as well as the presence of diminutive and dotty old lady Esma Cannon ( also seen in CARRY ON REGARDLESS [ 1961 ] and CARRY ON CABBY [ 1963 ] ) . It doesn't help , then , that the most prominent actresses during this early phase of the " Carry Ons " ? Hattie Jacques and Joan Sims ? are also missing from this one ? though it must be said that the two young female leads ( Liz Fraser ? also from REGARDLESS and CABBY ? and Dilys Laye , who proves to be a surprisingly adept comedienne ) are highly appealing . Incidentally , this was the first film in the series to be shot in color and , as such , has added curiosity value ? even if the overall quality isn't really up to the usual standards .
HOSPITAL ( Krzysztof Kieslowski , 1976 )	The best of eight shorts I watched in quick succession is this ‘day in the life of a hospital’ film ; it uses the hours of the day as a guide-line for the development of particular situations . The subject is actually pretty grim as various people come in for serious bodily treatment , sometimes parting with a limb in the process : the most excruciating sequence involves a graphic knee-cap operation ( which , however , unexpectedly descends into black comedy as instruments get lodged into the bone-structure or else come apart ! ) ; interestingly , there’s even an investigation into the case of a patient who has thrown herself out of the fourth floor of the building ! At 20 minutes , it’s the longest of the lot – but this actually benefits one’s appreciation of the nonstop goings-on at such an obviously sensitive place .
TO BE OR NOT TO BE ( Alan Johnson , 1983 )	This is an unnecessary but not displeasing remake of Ernst Lubitsch's 1942 film , which is an undisputed classic ( and one of my own all-time favorites ) . It turned out very faithful to the original : wisely , Brooks opted not to spoof what was already a black comedy ? this may have had something to do with his decision not to write and direct the film himself . The fast-moving plot still works beautifully , though the jokes tend to fall flat ? since they don't have the same immediacy of the wartime years , while the level of acting is far below that of the 1942 version . The remake adds sentimentality and the unfortunate inevitability of a gay stereotype ; all in all , however , Brooks ' earlier lampoon of Nazism in the form of the " Springtime For Hitler " set-piece in THE PRODUCERS ( 1968 ) was much more effective . There are , nonetheless , a couple of good songs here ? while the original's gem of a final gag involving Hitler has been replaced by an equally priceless one . As I said , the leads are no match for Jack Benny and Carole Lombard from the 1942 version ( and are overage to boot ) ? though it was certainly nice to watch real-life couple Brooks ( who , unsurprisingly , gets to double as both Professor Siletsky and Hitler ) and Anne Bancroft playing alongside each other for once . Still , Jose ' Ferrer fills the old Stanley Ridges role more than adequately ? but , then , Charles Durning makes for a poor substitute to Sig Rumann in the all-important role of Colonel " Concentration Camp " Erhardt ( amazingly , Durning's rather forced performance here was nominated for an Oscar ! ) .
The Shakiest Gun In The West ( Alan Rafkin , 1968 )	The second Don Knotts star vehicle that I've watched is perhaps more readily enjoyable than the first - THE GHOST AND MR . CHICKEN ( 1966 ) ? but the fact that it was an unnecessary remake of the classic Bob Hope comedy THE PALEFACE ( 1948 ) hurts the overall effort . In fact , Knotts takes the role of a dentist out West who comes up ( at least , initially ) against an attractive sharp-shooting female robber ( Barbara Rhoades ) - played in the original by Jane Russell ; when the latter is pardoned by the U . S . government and enrolled as their agent in hot pursuit of Indian gun-runners ( one of whom is played by Jackie " Uncle Fester " Coogan ) , she is forced to hastily take the understandably awed Knotts for a husband as a cover ( following the killing of her original intended ) . The amusing opening sequences depict Knotts ' misadventures in dentistry ? highlighted by his energetic encounter with a generously-built female patient who beats him up repeatedly within an inch of his life - but he is soon on his way westward because his hometown is already overrun with dentists . His wagon train is attacked by marauding Indians before long and , consequently , he earns himself a reputation as a fast gun ( even though , in reality , it was Rhoades who mowed down ten Indians ) . After their marriage , Knotts is naturally more of a hindrance than a help to Rhoades in fulfilling her mission - even going so far as to bring about her abduction by the two villainous gun-runners to a nearby Indian camp when he follows her to a midnight rendezvous in a chapel . However , he proves his real mettle to his wife when , dressed up as a squaw ( ! ) , he infiltrates the Redskins ' camp at night and frees Rhoades - but not before stirring up trouble ( of the romantic jealousy type ) between two Indians who , incongruously enough , had found Knotts ' sinewy figure attractive in their eyes ! At the end , yet another Indian wants to exert his lawful rights on the squaw-attired Knotts but he has to contend with the now-gushing Rhoades and her gunmanship . A harmless , moderately entertaining Western comedy , therefore , but nowhere near the shining examples of the genre ( which , incidentally , include THE PALEFACE itself ) .
SUNSHINE ( Danny Boyle , 2007 )	The third collaboration between director Boyle and novelist / screenwriter Alex Garland starts and ends confusingly but has a fairly gripping middle section in which , apparently , everything that can go wrong during a space mission does . One never really knows how the fate of the whole world comes to be left in the hands of these seven people ( including three Asians ! ) all of him are barely over 30 years of age ; at times , I was reminded of the anime stuff I used to watch as a kid in which teenagers control robots and spacecraft and battle every kind of horrid monster . . . but , I'm pretty sure this was not the film-makers ' intention ! What's worse is that only three of these characters ? played by Cillian Murphy ( whom I caught ? at close range ? acting in a play in the West End with Neve Campbell last January ! ) , Chris Evans and Rose Byrne ? are sympathetic at all , which rather makes this a relentlessly grim and dreary affair for most of its running time . The story deals with the sun starting to die out and a special mission subsequently launched into space to shoot a huge bomb into the sun which would create a newer sun ( or so we are told ) . As it happens , a few years previously another vessel had been sent out but that mission was unsuccessful ; even so , the new crew come across that spaceship and decide to take their explosive device ( called payload ) because " two payloads are better than one " . What they find on the seemingly abandoned spaceship will alter the course of their mission forever . . . What this film has going for it , apart from an obviously cerebral take and a couple of good performances , is the fact that one really gets the feeling , via some awesome visual sequences , of the extreme heat of the sun ( which literally burns their captain to a crisp ) and cold in space ( their second-in-command smashes against the side of the spaceship when attempting re-entry through a defective airlock ) . On the debit side , then , are a fairly useless percussion-heavy electronic score and the unnecessary addition of a marauding decomposing maniac in the figure of the captain of the previous mission which , being no ALIEN replacement and the fact that ? through some silly camera jerkiness ? we are deprived of ever getting a really good look at him ( although , this is remedied in the deleted scenes section of the DVD ) , seems like just one too many trips to the well . . .
THE CAPTIVE CITY ( Joseph Anthony and Mario Chiari , 1962 )	This is an unusual WWII film involving a small group of mixed nationalities of both sexes ( English , American , Egyptian , Greek ) besieged in an Athens hotel by the raggedy but vast army commandeered by a rebel leader ? all for possession of a Nazi arsenal secreted in the building's cellar . The plot is also interesting because it transpires that one of their number is a traitor ? so that the film features elements of the thriller genre amid standard excitements and political / anti-war messages . Being an international production , the film has the value of good casting ? David Niven ( in a role similar to the one he played in THE GUNS OF NAVARONE [ 1961 ] ) , Lea Massari , Ben Gazzara , Martin Balsam , Michael Craig ( as the surprise villain ) , Daniela Rocca , Percy Herbert , etc . ? while also suffering from the lumpiness typical of such ventures . It's still worth watching , however ; unfortunately , the Italian TV reception throughout the broadcast was problematic as the image and audio kept going off intermittently ! Incidentally , the film was cut down from the original 108-minute version to 87 minutes for the U . S . , where it was also renamed THE CONQUERED CITY .
MOTHER’S HEART ( Salvatore Samperi , 1969 )	Curiously enough , I became aware of this movie through its music score : as part of my two-month film-making course in Hollywood in late 2005 , I chose to accompany my final project with pieces culled from a CD compilation featuring some of Ennio Morricone’s oddest soundtracks – entitled " Crime & Dissonance " ; a good deal of music that I ended up using came from this obscure little item , which back then I thought was a sentimental family drama . Some months ago , it turned up on late-night Italian TV and I took the opportunity to tape the broadcast ; having watched the film now , I can say that MOTHER’S HEART is nothing like what I expected it to be ! Indeed , it’s most unusual – and the whole is rendered even stranger by Morricone’s fantastic ( and intricate ) compositions : the protagonist is a divorced mother ( Carla Gravina , still best-known perhaps for playing the possessed lead in THE ANTICHRIST [ 1974 ] ) of three who may or may not be a mute ; we’re never actually told , but the fact remains that she doesn’t utter a single word during the course of the film ( and yet people around her seem to act as if awaiting her reply ) ! While the children are cared for by a cantankerous old maid , she works at a bookshop – however , the heroine’s also involved somehow with a group of revolutionaries . Incidentally , the kids are far more knowledgeable than their years ( in the very opening scene , they’re engaged in ‘professional’ tattooing on each other ! ) – the eldest , in particular , is himself keen on politics and bio-chemistry ( he’s obsessed with firing a rocket ) ; it was amusing but , at the same time , weird to hear him accuse his three year-old sibling of being a Communist ( which the latter vehemently denies ) ! And it seems that the precociousness of Gravina’s children is not an isolated case , either , as another mother seeking new reading material at the bookshop for her kid ( who , she says , is over the traditional Children’s Classics such as " Treasure Island " and " Around The World In 80 Days " ) is suggested De Sade’s " Justine " since it’s the story of a little orphan girl ! Things get even more out of hand : as the mother drifts farther away from her job ( eventually being sacked ) and duty at home into outright terrorism , the kids come up with their own violent ‘games’ – first by killing their pet cat when , as passenger of the rocket during its test flight , the ‘launch’ backfires and the rocket explodes ; then , when the toddler is tragically drowned in the bath-tub ! During the funeral ( also attended by the father – an underused Philippe Leroy – and his new companion , who’s actually good friends with Gravina ! ) , the eldest son sadistically reads aloud from an encyclopedia the effects of such a terrible death . Later on , after the remaining kids spend some time with Dad ( only to embarrass him in front of guests by playing a clandestine recording of his love-making the night before ! ) , the sister also perishes at the hands of her intellectual sibling via a deliberate leakage of gas – which he’s personally able to endure by wearing a self-constructed gas mask ! ! The mother , then , is forced to take stock of the situation : left alone with the boy – who actually blames her for the two previous deaths ( not an entirely unfounded accusation , given her chronic aloofness ) – she blows him up while he’s fiddling yet again with the rocket ! After this , it’s back to the revolution – except that her former companions have started to disperse : however , by now , the heroine’s learned how to assemble a bomb by herself . . . with the obvious target being her ex-husband’s pharmaceutical factory ! I’m sure that even from the above synopsis , one is able to grasp just how bizarre this film is ; for the record , the only other Samperi effort I’d watched was THANK YOU , AUNT ( 1968 ) – which was itself fairly disturbing in view of the incestuous sado-masochistic central relationship and a finale promoting euthanasia ! Apart from Morricone’s delightful contribution ( frequently providing ironic counterpoint to the on-screen events ) , the anchor here is clearly Gravina – despite the inherent difficulty in playing a character who’s basically a cipher ; incidentally , her rapport with the kids is genuine since the elder couple are the actress’ real-life off-springs ! Besides , the film contains a surreal quality to it – which is positively winning . . . though it’s all eventually worn down by the excessive political rallying .
REVOLVER ( Guy Ritchie , 2005 )	I had watched Ritchie's previous crime films - LOCK , STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS ( 1998 ) and SNATCH ( 2001 ) , though not , curiously enough , SWEPT AWAY ( 2001 ) , which was filmed in my country ! - and while I enjoyed certain elements in them , their relentless flashiness ( including generous helpings of sick violence ) and over-elaborate plot lines proved more tiresome than anything else . And his latest offering is no exception , though it does show a distinct maturity in the director's style - which , however , also results in the film being even more pretentious and muddled than any of his previous efforts ! During the film's first half , the cons and double-crosses perpetrated by the unsympathetic members of its various criminal factions generates both interest ( so long as one is able to follow the plot ) and excitement but , once it turns into some kind of mind game ( and it's never really clear who's doing what to whom ! ) , the film takes a definite downward spiral and becomes merely repetitive ( its chess-game motif , while intriguing in itself , is referenced ad nauseam for instance ) , incoherent and downright laughable ( particularly the elevator scene ) ! !
THE MIRACLE ON 34TH STREET ( TV ) ( Robert Stevenson , 1955 )	Frankly , I had never even heard of this condensed TV version ( the first of four remakes ! ) of the original 1947 Oscar-winning classic when I chanced upon it at my local DVD rental shop . While understandably not up to the standards of the earlier film , a capable director leads a rather remarkable cast : Thomas Mitchell , Teresa Wright , Macdonald Carey , Hans Conried , Dick Foran , Ray Collins , Don Beddoe and Whit Bissell . The child actress playing the little girl seemed awfully familiar to me even though her name ? Sandy Descher ? didn't ring any bells ; it eventually transpired that she had been the girl dumb-struck by the giant ants ' attack at the beginning of the sci-fi classic THEM ! ( 1954 ) ? which , ironically , starred the original Kris Kringle ( Edmund Gwenn ) ! Although I quite liked this made-for-TV version overall , I think the brief 45-minute running time ultimately worked against it ? as the narrative seemed awfully rushed in spots ! Besides , the cast ? while commendably entering into the spirit of the thing ? seemed somewhat less sympathetic than the performers of the previous version ( Gwenn , Maureen O'Hara , John Payne , Natalie Wood , etc . ) had been .
SHREK THE THIRD ( Chris Miller and Raman Hui , 2007 )	I had enjoyed the first Shrek film due to its novelty but was somewhat lukewarm towards the second ; I'm even more so , then , with respect to this new entry . It's still eminently watchable for the gags , the in-jokes and the apparently unlimited possibilities of the CGI technique . The best new character is surely Eric Idle's accident-prone Merlin , while the most amusing sequences are those involving the Frog King's death and Shrek's nightmare about his upcoming parenthood . However , its gang of gung-ho fairy-tale heroines and the generally modern attitudes on display – to say nothing of the typically refurbished pop / rock songs on the soundtrack ( including , of all things , Led Zeppelin's " Immigrant Song " ! ) – seem less intent on fulfilling the necessities of the plot than catering to potential box-office receipts !
VAI GORILLA ( Tonino Valerii , 1975 )	Unusual poliziottesco on a topical subject – " Euro-Cult " regular Fabio Testi is an undercover cop doubling as the bodyguard ( hence , " Gorilla " ) of a cantankerous middle-aged industrialist targeted for extortion . Amazingly , to bring the culprits out into the open , he beats the criminals at their own game by purporting to kidnap his own master ( with the aid of his delinquent brother ) ; to complicate matters further , he becomes involved with the industrialist’s own rebellious teenage daughter ( naturally , she falls for him in the blink of an eye ) ! The rest of the ingredients are par for the course within this genre : pulsating score , nonstop action ( notably a heart-pounding scene in which Testi is trapped inside a bottom-less elevator and the FRENCH CONNECTION-inspired chase finale involving a police car and a speeding train – the chief villain’s demise is particularly stunning ) , Testi’s best pal ( Al Lettieri from THE GETAWAY and THE GODFATHER { both 1972 } ) turns out to be corrupt , etc .
WHO'S GOT THE BLACK BOX ? ( Claude Chabrol , 1967 )	Even if he had the greatest longevity among the Nouvelle Vague crowd , Chabrol's work tends to be erratic - but , at his best ( usually when directing psychological thrillers ) , he was up there with Hitchcock and Lang . This was a film I had missed out on previously so , when it turned up again recently on late-night Italian TV , I made sure to catch it this time . Despite its credentials , it doesn't have a very good reputation and , watching it now , I can well understand why ! The muddled storyline makes for an espionage thriller that's somewhat dreary ( with the titular device serving as the proverbial " McGuffin " ) ; nevertheless , it definitely benefits from a good cast ( an appealing Jean Seberg , Christian Marquand , a rather glum-looking Saro Urzi , Chabrol himself in a small but important role - which , at one point , sees him disguised as a Greek Orthodox priest ! - as well as regulars Maurice Ronet and Michel Bouquet - the latter , perhaps , coming off best of all ) , the lush cinematography of Greek locations ( courtesy of Jean Rabier ) and Pierre Jansen's lively score . Its tongue-in-cheek approach helps , too , resulting in the occasional amusing moment or quip ( though the film never quite descends to the camp level of , say , MARIE-CHANTAL VS . DR . KHA [ 1965 ] ) . All things considered , then , a very minor Chabrol which , interestingly enough , directly preceded LES BICHES ( 1968 ) - the film which heralded his greatest period ( one that would last , more or less , till 1975's INNOCENTS WITH DIRTY HANDS ) . WHO'S GOT THE BLACK BOX ? is out on R1 DVD through Pathfinder - but the company's hit-and-miss record and the disc's own bare-bones status don't give it much hope of an eventual purchase from me ( unless they stick it in another Box Set somewhere down the line , though it seems that the only other title they have released outside of the already-existing 8-Disc Collection - and which I've been pondering about picking up for ages ! - is PLEASURE PARTY [ 1975 ] , available as a stand-alone SE ) . . .
The Creation Of The Humanoids ( Wesley E . Barry , 1962 )	The first time I ever heard of this obscure sci-fi flick was when it was listed among the " Top 10 DVD releases of 2006 " as chosen by my favorite online DVD reviewer , Glenn Erickson aka DVD Savant ; I was later surprised to encounter it on Leonard Maltin's Films and Video Guide were it was accorded the dreaded BOMB rating ! That may have put paid to the idea of my eventual springing for the Dark Sky DVD ( where it was paired with the Italian cheapie WAR BETWEEN THE PLANETS [ 1966 ] ) but I did seek it online and eventually acquired the film on DivX ? and I'm glad I did , too . While failing almost completely in cinematic terms ? Wesley E . Barry's direction is so stodgy as to seem positively paralytic ! ? it is in the make-up department ( provided by the great Jack Pierce of Universal's Frankenstein and Wolf Man fame ) and especially the intelligent screenplay ( pretentious and verbose though it may be ) written by Jay Simms ( of PANIC IN YEAR ZERO ! [ 1962 ] ) that it really shines . When we open , the human population has been so greatly reduced that they risk being supplanted by the blue-skinned humanoids ( disparagingly referred to as " clickers " ) ; the hero is an ill-tempered human ( Don Megowan ) engaged by the " Order of Flesh and Blood " and sporting a quasi-Confederate outfit and the heroine a spirited blonde ( Erica Elliott ) who , after a false start , get together through the hero's sister who , to the latter's great chagrin , is " in rapport " with a humanoid ! As I said , the film is mostly unexciting and very talky but the climactic revelation of our heroes ' true identities ? related to them by the Humanoid rulers they have been forcibly taken to ? anticipates DEAD AND BURIED ( 1981 ) and Ridley Scott's BLADE RUNNER ( 1982 ) by a good twenty years ! What is interesting as well is the fact that the humanoids ( who are themselves an experimental fusion of man and machine ) are able to turn dead humans into ' unconscious ' humanoids and , by the end of it , are laying down plans to further enhance their race by eventually making themselves able to procreate !
MAN OF THE MOMENT ( John Paddy Carstairs , 1955 )	A mostly pleasing star farce in which Norman Wisdom - who's so modest that his greatest ambition in life is to become chief filing clerk in a Ministry ! - unwittingly tries his hand at international intrigue , as he gets to replace an indisposed British diplomat at a Geneva conference and causes no end of havoc ! ! There are some nice moments along the way ( though there's an overabundance of songs ) , particularly during the flight to Switzerland , the initial business at the hotel and the climax in a TV studio ( notably a running gag involving a French chef ) , but the subplot involving conflicts over a South Seas island ( which Norman somehow ends up representing to the chagrin of his fellow delegates ) is rather dreary . At least , the return of his co-stars from 1953's TROUBLE IN STORE ( leading lady Lana Morris and comic foil Jerry Desmonde ) elevate this to above medium grade . Belinda Lee also appears as a movie siren , Norman's dream-girl , who also turns up in Geneva but is exposed as a femme fatale involved in the plotting ! The bumbling diplomat plot was reprised several times by other film comics , notably Danny Kaye in THE INSPECTOR GENERAL ( 1949 ) , Terry-Thomas in CARLTON BROWNE OF THE F . O . ( 1958 ; co-starring Peter Sellers and also dealing with the fate of an island in the Pacific ) , etc .
TWO-MINUTE WARNING ( Larry Peerce , 1976 )	This is yet another star-studded disaster movie but which , apparently , was felt to be so realistic and too close for comfort that it flopped at the box-office ? and , consequently , was reportedly greatly altered for network showings ( I wish this version had been included on the Universal DVD for the sake of completeness ) ! The narrative revolves around a sniper at large during a championship football match ; a similar later effort , the superior BLACK Sunday ( 1977 ) , replaced the threat with a terrorist gang . The man himself remains a mystery to the end , so that the cast offers a microcosm of the people attending / organizing / filming / guarding such an event ? plus members of law enforcement who move in once the assassin's presence is detected ( by TV cameras ) . As such , few of the actors really have that much of a part ? since the film tries hard to depict all possible angles : from the clean-cut family man ( Beau Bridges ) , to a squabbling couple ( David Janssen and Gena Rowlands ) , a girl finding true love amid all the commotion ( the director's own future wife Marilyn Hassett ) , a small-time bookie whose life is already hanging by a thread at the start of the picture ( a wonderful Jack Klugman ) , and even an elderly pickpocket who has a free hand in the crowded stadium ( Walter Pidgeon ) ! Then , of course , there's Charlton Heston as the L . A . police chief and John Cassavetes as the leader of the S . W . A . T . team assigned to pin down the sniper ( predictably , the two start off on the wrong foot by antagonizing one another but end up confronting the maniac side by side ) . Considering the fact that I have no interest in sports whatsoever and , therefore , understand nothing of the game of American football , it was hard for me to share the elation shown by the audience throughout ; as such , then , the first two-thirds to me felt kind of slow and repetitive . However , the director makes up for this with probing camera-work ( since the killer's identity isn't properly identified , we often see events subjectively from his P . O . V . ) and intricate Oscar-nominated editing tying up all the various strands of plot ? even if this emphasis on technique eventually grows tiresome ! To get to the busy climax , this is quite well-handled ? with scenes of random shooting and the panicking crowd both impressive and frighteningly real ; even so , the film's surface gloss prevents it from achieving the same level of urgency and power evident in the somewhat similar TARGETS ( 1968 ) . For one thing , its tone constantly teeters on the edge of camp ( quite typically of this genre , as it's become increasingly obvious from the examples I've been watching this past week ) : witness the scene in which Klugman is held by two gorillas dangling upside down from a creditor's balcony , and the concerned Heston being told off by a member of the TV crew trying to organize a presentable show for the audience watching at home , only to have Heston coolly state his authority by threatening him with physical assault if he's provoked any further !
MACISTE IN HELL ( Guido Brignone , 1925 )	Since I was going through some of the low-brow Italian peplums of the 50s and 60s over the Easter period , I decided to watch this Silent epic ( also made in Italy ) simultaneously . However , it turned out to not really be a peplum after all ? despite the muscular title character ( protagonist of a long-running series of films and , here , somewhat incongruously sporting modern attire ? including a suit and tie ! ) and the fact that the Italians had actually pioneered the religious epic genre during the Silent era ! That said , I guess I should have known since I had already watched Riccardo Freda's colorful but disappointing 1962 semi-remake ( actually set against a 17th Century Puritan backdrop ) but , there at least , Maciste is still somehow fitted with the traditional loincloth ? Anyway , to get to the movie itself : since I hadn't previously watched any of the Silent Italian epics , I didn't quite know how well it would have worn the passage of time but , surprisingly , I was left reasonably impressed by the visual splendor of the production which often evoked medieval paintings ? particularly in its hellish sequences . In fact , as I watched the film , I was most reminded ? as had been another viewer writing on the IMDb ? of Benjamin Christensen's HAXAN ( 1922 ) and F . W . Murnau's FAUST ( 1926 ) which , I'm sure you'll agree , is high praise indeed for a film of this kind ! Besides , the human form taken by the devil Barbariccia ( literally " Curlybeard " ) and his minions evokes memories of Scapinelli , the Mephistophelean figure of " The Student Of Prague " ( a German folk-tale filmed twice , at least , during the Silent era ) ? The plot of the film proper ? Maciste is apparently a do-gooder whose activities are giving Hell a bad name , so a devil is sent to Earth in order to tempt him ; somehow , the former ends up in the underworld and , giving in to the affections of some devilish sirens , is himself turned into a hellish creature ? until saved by a child's prayer on Christmas Eve ! ? is quaint yet curiously effective , especially given the myriad unconvincing-looking demons Maciste has to face ; at one point , there's even a revolt ( never fully explained , at least in the 66-minute print I watched ) against Barbariccia's dominion in Hell ? which is an interesting way of saying that petty jealousies and machinations , the cause of so much evil on Earth , are present in the afterlife as well ! I don't recall the 1962 film enough to make comparisons , except to say that it was an unintentional laugh-riot , but also that the plot of the later version is quite different ? as it involves a reanimated witch who had been burned at the stake ( in fact , it was called THE WITCH'S CURSE in the U . S . ) ; I know , however , that I enjoyed the ' original ' a good deal and am certainly interested now in seeking out more Silent spectacles from Italy ? L'INFERNO ( 1911 ) , THE LAST DAYS OF POMPEII ( 1913 ) , CABIRIA ( 1914 ) , etc . ?
COMPANEROS ( Sergio Corbucci , 1970 )	I had been disappointed by this tongue-in-cheek Spaghetti Western and a second look has only re-inforced that opinion ! By this time , the genre was well on its way out and had started to lampoon itself ; as such , it's enjoyable if needlessly inflated and given that it's also one of the most political examples of the genre , the two styles don't sit very well together ! Besides , the three stars seem to be attempting to outdo each other with their hammy portrayals : Franco Nero is even further away here from the stoic gunslinger of DJANGO ( 1966 ) than he was in A PROFESSIONAL GUN ( 1968 ) , of which film COMPANEROS is a semi-remake ! ; it was interesting to watch the evolution of Tomas Milian's acting style through the course of five Spaghetti Westerns I watched this past week , but his performance here is certainly the least convincing ( even if his foul-mouthed peasant / revolutionary is still a pleasant characterization ) ; however , it's Jack Palance ( in a relatively brief role ) who steals the show with his dope-smoking and revenge-seeking mercenary , fitted with a wooden hand and having as his constant companion a hawk ( which meets with a sticky end at the hands of our antagonistic heroes ! ) . The cast also features Fernando Rey as an old peace-loving Professor and a prospective political candidate , with a group of naïve students ( led by the lovely Iris Berben ) as followers ; Eduardo Fajardo appears briefly at the beginning as a ruthless Colonel dispatched by Milian , turning the latter from an unassuming shoe-shine boy to a lieutenant of the bandit horde led by ' General ' Mongo ( Jose ' Bodalo ) ; and Karin Schubert as a lisping and bespectacled madam who helps Nero and Milian liberate Rey from the Army fort where he's being kept prisoner . The action set-pieces deliver the goods and , as ever , Ennio Morricone's rousing score is tops ; it's only that the film pales in comparison to Corbucci's earlier work and , as I said , the stars are merely content to send-up their respective image . . .
SAUL AND David ( Marcello Baldi , 1964 )	Much of the same comments I made in connection with Joseph AND HIS BRETHREN ( 1960 ; see above ) apply here as well ; in fact this is a Biblical peplum also found on the same 3-Disc 10 film collection I rented in time for Good Friday . Luckily , this is slightly superior in that one gets to see re-enacted events with which one is not much familiar ( unless he is a staunch Bible reader or theologian ) . In fact , although the film opens with the perennial David and Goliath confrontation ( which while swift is also remarkably bloody ) , it mostly concerns itself with the embittered and ever worsening relationship between renounced Israelite sovereign Saul and his champion warrior David who regularly makes mincemeat of legions of Philistines . Saul is portrayed as a pitiful weakling by Norman Wooland ( a surprising but not ineffective bit of casting ) while blond-haired Gianni Garko is suitably imposing as the psalmist-harpist-warrior David of Bethlehem . As the story goes here , Saul’s persecution of David is so long drawn-out that the latter almost joins the Philistine ranks against his own people ! While the handling of the material is insufficiently inspired to sustain one’s interest for two hours , as I said the main thrust of the narrative is fresh enough to distinguish itself from other cinematic versions of the Biblical tale I am familiar with : David AND BATHSHEBA ( 1951 ; with Gregory Peck as David ) , David AND GOLIATH ( 1960 ; another Italian costumer with Orson Welles as Saul ) and KING David ( 1985 ; with Edward Woodward and Richard Gere as , respectively , Saul and David ) .
KILL AND PRAY ( Carlo Lizzani , 1967 )	This is a renowned and undeniably interesting Spaghetti Western of the politicized variety which , however , does not make a satisfactory whole . The first half is especially uncertain : his parents having been massacred by land-grabbing Southern aristocrat Mark Damon and his cohorts , a Mexican boy ( played by Lou Castel as an adult ) is brought up by a family of Quakers ; when their rebellious young daughter runs away , he vows to bring her back - however , not only has she been turned into a prostitute in the meantime , but he himself unwittingly disrupts a robbery and becomes a fast-draw overnight , thus making what is perhaps the subgenre's least likely gunslinger ( in fact , so inadept is he that he beats his horse with a frying-pan in order to urge it forward ) ! ! Anaemic cape-wearing Damon ( in one of his better roles ) seems to have strayed in from some vampire movie , and I was expecting him to bare his fangs at any moment ! ; he's also something of a racist / misogynist fop with a penchant for speechifying ! ! There's even some Gothic-style lighting when Damon murders his Mexican wife for helping Castel ; unfortunately , this scene and another ( in which Castel's ' sister ' falls foul of three of Damon's gunmen , one of them her keeper , in the saloon / brothel where she works ) seem to have been trimmed in the version I saw ( which ran for 102 minutes in PAL format against the official 110 ! ) - for instance , Damon tells his wife just before she expires that she has died a good death but , all the time , the camera is fixed on his expression , so that we don't even know what method he used to dispose of her ! ! However , REQUIESCANT ( as it was originally called and which is also how Castel is referred to , since he always says prayers over the men he has just killed ! ) is perhaps best remembered for the presence as actor of controversial film-maker Pier Paolo Pasolini ( whose distinctive voice has been dubbed even in the Italian-language version ) ! ; still , his role isn't up to much ( a Mexican priest in peasant garb who turns up intermittently to spout revolutionary ideology ) , coming into play mainly towards the end , and could have been played by just anybody ; also recruited for the film were Pasolini regulars Franco Citti as a heavy and Ninetto Davoli as a trumpeter ( the scene where Pasolini and his gang do an impromptu musical number in a saloon to distract the customers ' attention from Castel's ' sabotage ' is unintentionally hilarious ) . The film's best moments , then , are mostly concentrated in its second half : Castel's realization of who he really is when taken to the place where his people met their doom ( featuring a flashback to the opening scene tinted blood-red ) ; a contest between Castel and Damon ( shooting drunkenly from a distance at a woman holding candelabras ) ; the duel scene at the saloon , perhaps the most original I've ever watched , in which Castel and blond womanizer Ferruccio Viotti are both standing on a stool and have their heads in a noose - and the first to shoot off the foot of the stool will see the other hang ! ; the destruction of the abandoned fort in which Castel is presumed dead ; and Damon's protracted death scene , which first sees him put out of action by Castel's gunfire and subsequently interred by a tumbling church-bell ! Riz Ortolani's score is a good one , too .
TO THE DEVIL A DAUGHTER ( Peter Sykes , 1976 )	The reputation of Hammer’s last horror film has always been fairly maligned ( for a variety of reasons ) but , when I finally watched it – via a pan-and-scan PAL VHS – some years back , I recall being reasonably impressed by it . Somewhat perversely , I chose it to end my month-long tribute to the recently deceased Richard Widmark – given that he was notoriously cantankerous throughout the film’s shooting and would subsequently single it out as the one regret of his 44 year-long film career ! Re-acquainting myself with TO THE DEVIL A DAUGHTER by way of the Anchor Bay R1 DVD , I was pleased to discover that my initial reaction to it remained pretty much intact – though , obviously , I no longer felt that initial shock to some of its more intense and bizarre sequences . Anyway , the film was a companion piece to Hammer’s previous Dennis Wheatley adaptation – THE DEVIL RIDES OUT ( 1967 ) – in which Christopher Lee had atypically played the hero ; however , the author wasn’t as enthused this time around – since his novel was considerably bowdlerized in the transition – and declined the company further access to his works ( they had previously acquired the rights to yet another of Wheatley’s occult tales , " The Satanist " ) ! Lee co-stars in this one as well – but , here , he reverts to his favored ( on-screen ) element i . e . The Dark Side : his character of Father Michael is actually among the most believably sinister he ever played ( going about his diabolic business with a thoroughly calm demeanor and , often , a chilling smile on his lips ! ) . As for Widmark , I’m glad he was sensible enough to understand that , whatever his personal feelings ( the Hollywood star clearly seemed to consider the material beneath him ) , he still owed the public a good performance – and there’s no denying the fact that his no-nonsense occult novelist emerges as a most fitting opponent to Lee . The convoluted plot involves the rebirth of the demon Astaroth in human form – its vessel being a nubile girl ( played by the luscious Nastassja Kinski ) , brought up in seclusion as a nun ! Lee is a priest who has been excommunicated for challenging the belief that Man depends on the ‘presence’ of God to guide him through life – contending that Man is perfectly capable of making his own Destiny ( with a little help from the Forces of Darkness ) . Aiding him in his scheme is veteran Michael Goodliffe , the wonderful Denholm Elliott is featured as Kinski’s recanting wimpish father , and Derek Francis as the Church official who has barred Lee from service . In Widmark’s corner are his husband-and-wife agents , played by Honor Blackman and Anthony Valentine – both of whom eventually find themselves on the receiving end of Lee’s evil powers . Among the film’s notable sequences : the unnatural birth of the demon child ( displaying a harrowing intensity quite uncommon to Hammer’s usual output ) , the two scenes depicting the monstrous appearance of the baby itself ( one in which it slobbers all over 17-year old Kinski’s bloodied naked body Lee slams as " obscene " in the accompanying documentary ! ) , the would-be depraved rite / orgy ( presented as a nightmare in the vein of the not-too-dissimilar ROSEMARY’S BABY [ 1968 ] ) and , of course , the much-debated climax ( nowhere near as godawful as many seem to think , the scriptwriters having at least put an extra effort into coming up with a mystical explanation for the denouement , but the rushed execution of it is decidedly limp ! ) . In essence , then , this is not at all a bad send-off for Hammer Films – and , easily , among their better offerings of the decade ( incidentally , I’ve just acquired the obscure Sci-Fi / Western hybrid MOON ZERO TWO [ 1969 ] from this legendary brand , which promises to be fairly goofy ) . . . To get to Anchor Bay’s DVD edition , the one quibble I have with it concerns the ‘processed’ quality of the sound effects ( background noise , gunshots ) in a couple of sequences . Whilst serving as a moving valediction to a bygone era , the 24-minute featurette is a great account of the nerve-racking making of the film ( with its last-minute revisions to the script , problems securing a director , and Widmark’s temper-tantrums ) . Apart from over-hyped trailer , extensive poster / still gallery and detailed biographies for both Widmark and Lee , one is able to access a hilarious Easter Egg from the " Extras " menu – an excerpt from an interview with leading Hammer Films stunt-man Eddie Powell , wherein he discusses his multi-purpose duties on this particular title ( which included doubling for Lee in a scene requiring his character to appear in the nude ! ) .
DIAMOND HEAD ( Guy Green , 1963 )	Throughout the 1950s and 1960s , glossy soap operas were among Hollywood's most popular offerings ? before such melodramatic stuff became standard TV fare , a status which holds up to this day . These are hardly my kind of genre picture ? which , perhaps , explains why I've yet to sit through efforts even as acclaimed as PEYTON PLACE ( 1957 ) ! Incidentally , given the title's similarity to another Charlton Heston vehicle ( which actually preceded this viewing ) ? namely the Western ARROWHEAD ( 1953 ) ? it's no wonder that this isn't a reference to anything in particular , and certainly doesn't come up at all in the script ! Anyway , while the film doesn't have much of a reputation ? especially since it came at the height of Heston's epic phase ? I found it surprisingly tolerable ( apart from some impossibly corny dance routines from the locals : the narrative is set in Hawaii , to which the star would return for the aptly-named THE HAWAIIANS [ 1970 ] , which I hopefully also intend to check out in time for this ongoing Heston marathon ) . Interestingly , good ol ' Chuck is perhaps at his most unsympathetic here ? playing someone who can only be described as selfish , pig-headed and a hypocrite ! Besides , given the actor's controversial latter-day political activity ( and which seems to have received undue attention at the time of his passing ) , it's worth noting that his character in the film is persuaded to run for a place in the Senate because of his influence in the community ? but the eventual campaign is botched due to personal scandals ( having forbidden his kid sister Yvette Mimieux to marry local boy James Darren , is implicated in the latter's violent death , and himself impregnates Hawaiian France Nuyen ! ) . The cast features a number of current ' stars ' , whose allure would basically vanish by the end of the decade : apart from the afore-mentioned Mimieux , Darren ( best-remembered for the blockbuster THE GUNS OF NAVARONE [ 1961 ] , he would go on to play the bewildered protagonist in Jess Franco's erotic / cerebral masterpiece VENUS IN FURS [ 1968 ] ) and Nuyen ( she was often paired with Hollywood leading men in such Asian-set romantic dramas ) , there are George Chakiris ( as Darren's half-brother , who also gets in Heston's hair by falling for Mimieux himself ) and Elizabeth Allen ( appearing here as the glamorous sister of Heston's late wife , and naturally secretly harboring emotions for him , she would later graduate to leading lady for another Hawaiian flick ? the John Ford / John Wayne comic romp DONOVAN'S REEF [ 1963 ] ) . An important supporting role , however , is that of veteran Aline MacMahon as the typically indomitable mother figure ( of Chakiris and Darren's characters ) . If handled properly , such histrionic stuff can be reasonably entertaining ( especially given their predilection for confrontation scenes ) : this one's well enough done under the circumstances ( with Darren's untimely demise being handled in a particularly inventive manner ) but , for good measure , includes a Freudian dream sequence towards the end ! Guy Green was a Brit who , after a career as a cinematographer ( winning an Oscar for David Lean's classic adaptation of GREAT EXPECTATIONS [ 1946 ] ) , graduated to directing : he seemed to specialize in just this type of slick ' entertainment ' ? one of these , LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA ( 1962 ; also with Mimieux ) , is being shown on Cable TV for the nth time this very week-end and which I intend to record ? though his work could also go from Oscar-worthy ' message pictures ' such as THE MARK ( 1961 ) and A PATCH OF BLUE ( 1965 ) , perhaps his most popular effort but which I've yet to watch ( I do own a recording of it , though ) , to the notorious gimmicky-yet-indecipherable puzzle THE MAGUS ( 1968 ) ?
COBRA WOMAN ( Robert Siodmak , 1944 )	Spurred on by the success of ARABIAN NIGHTS ( 1942 ; see my comments below ) , Universal reteamed its star trio of Jon Hall , Maria Montez and Sabu ( but also villainous Edgar Barrier ) in a handful of other exotic adventure pictures with this one , directed by German stylist Robert Siodmak , being the best-known . The latter had just scored a success at the same studio with the atmospheric SON OF Dracula ( 1943 ) ? where Lon Chaney Jr . had donned the proverbial vampire cape ? and he engaged the horror star yet again for COBRA WOMAN as the benign giant protector of the good Montez . The latter adjective is appropriate since the actress has a dual role of twin sisters ? the rulers ( one rightful , one usurper ) of an island where the Cobra is worshipped as a deity ! Jon Hall and Sabu are adventurers who reside in the mainland and , respectively , love and have befriended the good Montez ( unaware of her royal lineage ) . The evil sibling had been tyrannically ruling over her people with a decidedly unwelcome penchant for sacrificing a great number of her subjects to the Cobra god ; this springs Chaney into action who ( dressed as a blind , pipe-playing beggar ) kidnaps the good Montez in order to replace the deadly queen . Hall and Sabu do not waste time in following them to the island where they witness the latest fashion in ' snake ? dancing ' ! These sequences which are aplently , despite the film's lean 71-minute duration , are both corny and embarrassing ? never more so than when the King Cobra ( real for the close-ups and a fake and hilariously overgrown one for the long-shots ) is carried in a golden platter to do the honors personally ! ; the rubber snake shots here are about as bad ( perhaps even more so ) than the similar ones in Fritz Lang's latter-day entry into the exotic sub-genre , THE Indian TOMB ( 1959 ) . The film is extremely handsome to look at and reasonably entertaining while it's on but , in hindsight , could have been a lot better and thus rather unworthy of both its director and considerable reputation as a camp classic ; the late British critic Leslie Halliwell hit the nail squarely on the head , then , with his memorable assessment of it ? " A monument of undiluted hokum " !
BIGGLES ( John Hough , 1986 )	This had been another childhood viewing ; actually , I had owned the computer game it spawned ( of which an advert is included among the surprisingly extensive bonus features here ? more on this later ) . The film is an old-fashioned adventure ( based on a character , a British air ace of WWI , created by Capt . W . E . Johns ) but given modern trappings ? by way of the time travel concept ( just then brought back into fashion via BACK TO THE FUTURE [ 1985 ] ) , a young American ad executive is transported into the thick of battle and has to aid his so-called " Time Twin " , Biggles , in destroying the German forces ' secret weapon ! While this element may not have been necessary in rendering the war exploits exciting , I guess it was considered safer ( especially for American audiences to whom the name Biggles wouldn't mean much ) ? then again , this makes for some amusing misunderstandings ( involving the American's bewildered colleagues or him being chased by police ) to go along with the dogfights ( incidentally , Biggles has three inseparable buddies and a Von Richtofen-like nemesis ) ; at one point , it's Biggles ( played by Neil Dickson , by the way ) who's thrown into our times and then takes a modern helicopter back to 1917 ! Still , the biggest joy of the film is watching Peter Cushing's graceful farewell performance as Biggles ' aged superior ( not so dignified was his cameo appearance during the accompanying music video for the obligatory theme song , " Do You Want To Be A Hero ? " ) . With this in mind , the film's ill-advised soundtrack consists of cheesy electro-pop rhythms ? which , more than anything , betray this as a product of the 1980s ! Apart from the expected fillers , the extras contained a number of vintage ' documents ' ? from an interesting 20-minute featurette ( in which Dickson , somewhat bafflingly , states that the film should appeal to fans of such effects-laden blockbusters as GHOSTBUSTERS [ 1984 ] and GREMLINS [ 1984 ] ) to excerpts from TV programs discussing / advertising BIGGLES ( to which was added the subtitle " Adventures In Time " for the U . S . ) at the time of its release .
FOLLOW THAT DREAM ( Gordon Douglas , 1962 )	Although I had long been aware of this particular film from seeing a poster of it in one of my father's film books as a child , it was only when I heard it being described as a " black comedy " here that I truly became intrigued . . . This often very funny satire ( adapted to the screen by Charles Lederer – who worked most often with director Howard Hawks ! ) was surprisingly and somewhat uneasily turned into a star vehicle for Elvis Presley . He’s a simple-minded country-boy ( not that he was ever the kind of guy to truly convey intelligence ) who , along with dad Arthur O’Connell and a slew of adopted siblings , gets caught in the middle of a ‘diplomatic’ incident over ownership of a newly-inaugurated strip of land . The family sets up house there and even starts to profit by charging the public for fishing on their property . Meanwhile , government and ( again ) social welfare officials try to have them evicted – but mobsters Simon Oakland and Jack Kruschen , traveling in a sort of mobile gambling-house , also make a stop at the location and which they subsequently find a convenient safe haven from the law . The two , therefore , decide to buy off the land from the hick family but will have just as little luck doing so ! The songs this time around feel like an afterthought , merely serving as a prerequisite – and only the title tune sticks out at all . Several gags and scenes are undeniably hilarious , however : the twins’ idea of sharing , the over-pressurized " john " , Presley’s first trip to a bank ( which inadvertently turns into a near hold-up ) , the equally ‘innocent’ disarming of Oakland and Kruschen’s thugs – specially brought in from Detroit ( and culminating in the destruction of their casino ) , etc . The film is capped by a moralistic , but ultimately stirring , Capra-esquire courtroom sequence . The supporting cast is well-served by the character actors – with the stuffy government official , the friendly bank manager and the benevolent judge all scoring nicely . Unfortunately , despite a good showing here , Joanne Moore’s career ( playing the social worker who seduces Elvis ) would soon be overshadowed by that of her husband and daughter , Ryan and Tatum O’Neal ! All in all , this is one of Presley’s more entertaining films – but , on a preliminary viewing , the lack of good songs and the general low-key nature rob it of a higher rating ( though I wouldn’t exclude getting it on DVD in future ) .
THE LUCK OF THE IRISH ( Henry Koster , 1948 )	Mildly entertaining romantic comedy with a touch of whimsy , rather too slight to live in the memory ? but , nevertheless , worthwhile for Cecil Kellaway's delightful Oscar-nominated performance as a mischievous leprechaun . Newspaperman Tyrone Power is on his way to meet gruff boss Lee J . Cobb ( with a bicarbonate-of-soda bottle never far from reach ! ) , who harbors political ambitions and wants to appoint the hero as his ' ghost writer ' ? even if their views on the matter are on a different wavelength ! Actually , Cobb's daughter ( Jayne Meadows ) , who's also Power's fiancée is the one pulling the strings ; the trouble is that , while passing through Ireland , he falls for inn-keeper's daughter Anne Baxter ? not to mention running into ' cobbler ' Kellaway by a waterfall ( although the residents deny the existence of both man and location ! ) . Back in the States , Power beckons to the will of Cobb ( or rather Meadows ) ; he's even given a plush apartment to live in ? but , when calling for a manservant , it's Kellaway who turns up ! Besides , a chance encounter ? actually ' arranged ' by the genial leprechaun ? with Baxter ( who has come to America for some private family business ) relights his interest , obviously reciprocated , in the girl ; consequently , he begins to neglect his work in order to be with her . Eventually , though , Cobb is ready to appoint Power as editor of his old newspaper if he's elected to the Senate himself ? a position he politely declines ; realizing she's beaten , Meadows gives him up and Power and Baxter are free to return to carefree Ireland . In the last scene , Power ? now married and living at Baxter's father's tavern ? is shown following a local custom ( which he had himself witnessed the old man perform earlier on ) by placing a whiskey bottle outside the tavern door ? which is then said to be picked up by a leprechaun ( and , just as he had done before , the prancing and giggling Kellaway appears soon after to retrieve it ) .
THE CLAIM ( Michael Winterbottom , 2000 )	This is a rare British attempt at a Western , albeit an uncharacteristic one about a small mining town clashing with the oncoming railroad : it's reasonably well served by the stark cinematography , Michael Nyman's dramatic underscoring and a surprisingly able cast ( the most impressive being Peter Mullan as the town leader with a secret past and Milla Jovovich as the chanteuse who has hooked up with him ) . Given the director , the film strives for absolute realism ( down to the varying accents of the multi-national townspeople and the kind of entertainment provided in the dingy saloon ) ; this , coupled with its relentless solemnity and a plot which isn't as engaging as it should be - actually containing a good deal of padding , particularly its baffling emphasis on the blossoming romance between a prospector and a prostitute - results in a rather uneasy film , one that's not remembered with affection ! However , the tragic finale - with Mullan's dreams literally going up in flames - is effectively handled . Curiously enough , watching THE CLAIM I was reminded of Nicolas Roeg's similar EUREKA ( 1983 ) - which also revolved around a family undone by the lust for gold - though it lacks that film's striking imagery ( not to mention its equally distinctive eccentricity ) .
WEAPONS OF DEATH ( Mario Caiano , 1977 )	Surprisingly tolerable poliziottesco thanks to its action-packed narrative ( with robberies , shoot-outs , fistfights and chases galore ) and vivid locations ( this was one of a long list of such thrillers revolving around a specific Italian city ) ; Francesco De Masi’s score is also serviceable . Leonard Mann , however , is no substitute for Maurizio Merli ( or even Luc Merenda ) – at one point , he takes on two thugs in a bar , but he’s just too skinny to be a credible tough guy ! On the other hand , while Henry Silva isn’t particularly taxed by his overly familiar criminal boss role , he always proves to be good value for money in this type of film . A number of seemingly irrelevant subplots are eventually nicely integrated into the main storyline : Mann occasionally looks out for a likable juvenile delinquent who subsequently saves his life from the clutches of Silva’s minions ( the boy’s own sacrifice at the end was rather unwarranted , though ) ; Alfredo Lastretti appears as a would-be child kidnapper who’s put behind bars and castrated by his fellow inmates ( an incident which serves as a diversion for Silva’s own escape ) ; and Evelyn Stewart appears very briefly at the end as Silva’s old flame ( whom he now wants dead ) , brought back from abroad by Mann specifically to bait his old nemesis . The film is quite violent : apart from the afore-mentioned castration , a pregnant woman is kicked in the belly during the opening bank robbery , a squealer is decapitated , and Silva himself is graphically trampled by a train at the climax . There isn’t that much of the typically hard-boiled dialogue ( which actually sounds even funnier when spoken in the almost unintelligible Neapolitan dialect ) but the standout is when a bank robber tries to persuade his associates to give themselves up rather than shoot it out with the cops , because if they’re caught " not even the Virgin Mary could prevent them getting a life sentence " !
Inner Sanctum ( 1948 )	When the local DVD store owner told me that he had ordered something by the name of INNER SANCTUM , I thought that he was talking about the low-budget Universal series of the 40s with Lon Chaney Jnr . Eventually , I found out that the film on this Alpha DVD is another obscure entry from the seemingly bottomless pit of film noirs . As it turned out , this is an effective , brisk and surprisingly watchable little thriller with the clever ( if hardly unexpected ) framework of a spiritualist ( the craggy-faced Fritz Leiber ) foretelling the fate of a train passenger ( Eve Miller ) without her realizing it still packing a wallop . The main narrative , then , concerns a man disposing of the body of his girlfriend at a train station , being seen by an inquisitive young boy and afterwards being " trapped " inside the boy's household by a stroke of bad weather . The film , or rather the plot , has some similarities to Edgar G . Ulmer's DETOUR ( 1945 ; the man hitchhikes his way into town ) and THE WINDOW ( 1949 ; the child witness ) but the characterizations , especially of the man ( a moody Charles Russell ) and a girl who knows too much ( a lovely Mary Beth Hughes ) are well-rounded enough to make the film survive on its own notable if unassuming merits . Among the guests at the household in which the man finds himself a lodging are the usual coterie of eccentrics : the boy's mother ( Lee Patrick ) provides a hilarious scene in which she reveals at table that she's a widow in search of a new father for her uncontrollable son and this sends two other guests - including Roscoe Ates reprising his dim-witted , stuttering act from Tod Browning FREAKS ( 1932 ) - scurrying off to their rooms in horror !
THE ABDICATION ( Anthony Harvey , 1974 )	This film was shown once on local TV in the early 1980s ( but I was too young to watch it ) and then fell completely off the radar in the interim ; however , thanks to the God-sent overhaul that TCM UK has finally decided to give its long-decaying schedule of endlessly-repeated titles , I was able to finally catch up with it after some 25 odd years ! Not because the film has any kind of reputation per se but its credentials are certainly impeccable and European History has always been one of my favorite subjects in school ( and one in which I excelled in ) . The story of Sweden's Queen Christina had already been dealt with magnificently by Rouben Mamoulian in his eponymous 1933 film which had provided Greta Garbo with arguably her greatest role ; this being made a good 40 permissive years later , the independent-minded Protestant monarch ( Liv Ullmann ) renounces her faith and throne to sneak into the Vatican and pour out her lesbian longings for a childhood friend onto a Roman Catholic Cardinal ( Peter Finch ) engaged to investigate her well-documented wanton ways and her newly-professed piety ! The two stars , reunited a year after Ross Hunter's maligned 1973 musical version of LOST HORIZION , are practically the whole show here despite being surrounded by opulent sets and a cast of thespian notables : Cyril Cusack ( as Christina's guardian ) , Graham Crowden ( as a fellow Cardinal ) , Edward Underdown and Kathleen Byron ( as , respectively , Christina's chivalrous father and embittered mother ) and diminutive Michael Dunn ( in his last film as Christina's enigmatic servant ) . Celebrated cinematographer Geoffrey Unsworth shoots the opening abdication scenes in moody candlelight , bathes the film in mist during Christina's childhood reminiscences and lends it a sunny look during her liberated passages ; Nino Rota's music score is also appropriately sensitive or soaring according to the film's moods . Incidentally , another failed historical / religious charade featuring Liv Ullmann I would like to see is Michael Anderson's POPE JOAN ( 1972 ) ? who knows if TCM UK will likewise surprise me and provide the opportunity to catch up with it in the not-too-distant future ?
LA HABANERA ( Douglas Sirk , 1937 )	The earliest example of Douglas Sirk's filmography that I have seen is this German melodrama starring Swedish singing star Zarah Leander . Although hardly a major film when judged against his later , more renowned Hollywood output of the 1950s , at the same time it is just as well-crafted and visually polished a film as any he ever made . A Swedish tourist , vacationing in Puerto Rico with her stuffy elderly aunt , falls in love with its exotic ambiance and laid-back lifestyle and impulsively elopes with its leading citizen Don Pedro ( Ferdinand Marian ) while at the harbor . Cut to 10 years later and their marriage , which has bore them a son , is at the end of its tether ; meanwhile , the resilient aunt decides to entrust an old friend of her niece's ? called over there to investigate the outbreak of an epidemic fever ? to bring her back home . Don Pedro tries his utmost to keep the real health situation in his community under wraps and this serves to add another layer of animosity towards the Swedish scientist . The titular anthem is heard in various forms throughout the film and , for whatever reason , Leander feels the need to belt it out in public as a farewell gesture to the land and man ( who has eventually succumbed to the fever himself ) that had captured her heart all those years ago .
SPEEDWAY ( Norman Taurog , 1968 )	This is basically a neat reworking of IT HAPPENED AT THE WORLD’S FAIR ( 1963 ) by the same director , no less : Bill Bixby replaces Gary Lockwood as Elvis’ scoundrel sidekick ( and results in being quite amusing ) , Nancy Sinatra stands in for ( and easily upstages ) Joan O’Brien – Ol’ Blue Eyes’ daughter , a singing star in her own right , makes a better-than-usual match for The King – and , instead of one Asian child , we get six homeless kids and their ex-racer father , etc . Besides , the songs are also above-par and rockier than usual and even Sinatra gets her own " impromptu " number . The instances of crazy comedy – usually brought on by Elvis’ frustration with I . R . S . " agent " Sinatra’s doggedness – are also present here and anticipate the next , and last , Presley / Taurog collaboration , LIVE A LITTLE , LOVE A LITTLE ( 1968 ) ; among the highlights are Elvis punching through a hotel-room door and knocking out a passerby and then punching his racing rival in the hotel lobby who consequently slides on his back all the way into an empty elevator ! The racing-car scenes themselves are okay – a milieu with which Elvis was quite familiar , having already played similar roles ( or so I hear ) in both VIVA LAS VEGAS ( 1964 ) and SPINOUT ( 1966 ) .
SUPERNATURAL ( Victor Halperin , 1933 )	Having independently made one of the most unusual horror films up to that time in WHITE ZOMBIE ( 1932 ) , the Halperin Brothers were given the opportunity to duplicate its success ? on a bigger budget , relatively speaking ? by a major studio , Paramount . Alas , the result wasn't as good and , in fact , SUPERNATURAL emerged as a lesser addition to the studio's brief output in the genre during its Pre-Code heyday ! Despite a nice opening montage sequence depicting the exploits of the murderess ( Vivienne Osborne ) , it takes a while to get going : Carole Lombard only appears 15 minutes into the movie , and the possession plot only really comes into play during the last 15 ( interestingly , the ' transference of souls at the moment of death ' gimmick was also featured in EXORCIST III [ 1990 ] ? though it's unlikely this element was derived from the film in question ) . That said , I enjoyed SUPERNATURAL a good deal and there are some undeniably stylish sequences throughout . Still , one might say that luscious Lombard's virtually the whole show here , though she isn't totally comfortable in her role . Randolph Scott and H . B . Warner lend solid if unexceptional support ? but the villainous character of the spiritualist ( Allan Dinehart ) isn't particularly well-developed , while Beryl Mercer offers the obligatory comic relief as the latter's tipsy landlady ( who isn't above spying on and eventually blackmail her boarders ! ) . For all that , the latter stages of the film ? involving the séance ( highlighted by the ' apparitions ' of Lombard's dead twin brother and various other tricks perpetrated by Dinehart to milk his gullible clients ) and Lombard's possession ( particularly the nice close-ups of her lit eyes ) ? are reasonably effective . All in all , while I wasn't excessively let down by it , I can only see SUPERNATURAL ( I wouldn't mind having it on an official DVD from Universal , either , perhaps as part of a horror collection ? ) improving with further viewings , and I would certainly like to catch up with the Halperin Brothers ' subsequent horror outings ? REVOLT OF THE ZOMBIES ( 1936 ) and TORTURE SHIP ( 1939 ) ? even if their reputation is nowhere near as assured as this one's is , let alone WHITE ZOMBIE ?
How I Play Golf , by Bobby Jones No . 10 : ' Trouble Shots ' ( George Marshall , 1931 )	I'm no golf enthusiast myself ( also perhaps because so many comedians have lampooned this form of sport ) and , at first , I thought this was included on the BULLETS OR BALLOTS ( 1936 ) DVD because it was made the same year ; actually , it turned out to be an even older program ? but the catch is that it featured three Hollywood stars alongside golfer Jones , and one of them is none other than the lead of BULLETS himself : Edward G . Robinson ! He and comic Joe E . Brown make a bet that the latter can offer a serious challenge to Jones at the sport : the idea , however , is that Brown is so bad that his ball always falls in perilous territory and that it's Jones who has to pick up the shot . However , the golfer's prowess is so that he always manages to extract himself from the dilemma ? with his moves subsequently re-produced in slow-motion and explained for the benefit of the audience ! By the way , the other star who turns up at the site of the game is Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , who had not long before this co-starred with Robinson in the film that made the latter's name ? co-incidentally , another gangster picture , the seminal LITTLE CAESAR ( 1931 ) .
Revenge Of The Creature ( 1955 )	The Creature was the last of the classic Universal monsters I got into , which only happened in 2001 via the original DVD release of CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON ( 1954 ) . I loved the film immediately , however , and was very much interested in watching its two sequels - REVENGE OF THE CREATURE and THE CREATURE WALKS AMONG US ( 1956 ) . Now that I've caught up with both of them , I'd say that Universal did well enough by this particular monster , and that having arrived so long after the Studio's other notables ( Dracula , Frankenstein , The Mummy , The Invisible Man and The Wolf Man ) proved fortuitous , because The Creature wasn't allowed to become redundant in his own ' starring vehicles ' as was the case certainly - and sadly - with both The Frankenstein Monster and The Mummy . As for the film itself , it isn't up to the original ( with which I should be re-acquainting myself over the week-end ) - despite having the same director . The change in setting is interesting , and it works most of the time ; the main problem , I guess , lies with The Creature's alarmingly limited characteristics : it can only either swim ( in the water ) or go on a rampage ( on land ) - although , to be fair , The Mummy is perhaps even duller ! Still , the film offers reasonable entertainment and the leads are O . K . if , again , failing to match those of the original .
ALI BABA AND THE FORTY THIEVES ( Arthur Lubin , 1944 )	The Alexander Korda production of THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1940 ) - still the quintessential Arabian Nights movie - led to a spate of colorful romps made by Hollywood studios to escape the grim everyday realities of WWII ; this may not be the best or even the most enjoyable of the lot but is reasonably representative of this fantasy sub-genre . Actually , I had intended to watch this over last year's Christmas period as it was shown on Italian TV very early one morning but the transmission started even earlier than expected and consequently I had to abort the viewing ; therefore , I am grateful that ( in spite of some deficiencies which I'll get to later ) I remedied this through a copy of the Asian DVD I've just gotten hold of . The film obviously deals with the famous tale of the title but here Ali Baba ( Jon Hall ) is the son of a deposed ( and subsequently murdered ) Caliph who as a boy ( played by Scotty Beckett ) found refuge in the thieves ' hide-out inside the cave and was raised by their leader ( Fortunio Bonanova ) as his own son . Meanwhile , Ali's childhood friend grows up to be Maria Montez and is naturally coveted by the evil tyrant now in power at Bagdad ( Kurt Katch ) . Andy Devine is also on hand to provide some mild comic relief as Baba's " nursemaid " and Turhan Bey ( like Hall and Montez , also a regular in such diversions ) is Montez's only male slave and sympathetic to Ali's cause . As I said , the film is fairly entertaining and , as can be expected from a grade-A Universal production , handsomely mounted but it mainly survives nowadays on its high quotient of nostalgia both to people of my father's generation ( who were around when this subgenre was still in full bloom ) and to others who , like me , grew up on these things when they played during the summer holidays on TV . To get back to the presentation of the film on the disc I watched : while the all-important colors were not as vibrant as a full-blown restoration job would have made them look , the print was serviceable all around . . . were it not for the very odd fact that it omitted the opening and closing credits completely ! In any case , this satisfactory viewing has brought back fond childhood memories of similar costume pictures and has certainly whetted my appetite for more ; I also received a bunch of Sinbad pictures at the same time that this disc arrived and I ought to purchase the recently released DVD of ARABIAN NIGHTS ( 1942 ) one of these days - although , frankly , I think Universal missed the boat when they didn't release it as part of an Arabian Nights franchise collection which could have also included , apart from ALI BABA AND THE FORTY THIEVES itself , any of the following : BAGDAD ( 1949 ) , THE DESERT HAWK ( 1950 ) , FLAME OF ARABY ( 1951 ) , THE PRINCE WHO WAS A THIEF ( 1951 ) and SON OF ALI BABA ( 1952 ) . This is not to mention many other such extravaganzas made by other film studios which are still unreleased on DVD like ONE THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS ( 1945 ) , SINBAD THE SAILOR ( 1947 ) , THIEF OF DAMASCUS ( 1952 ) , SON OF SINBAD ( 1955 ) , THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1961 ; an Italian remake with Steve Reeves supervised by ALI BABA helmer , Arthur Lubin ) , THE WONDERS OF ALADDIN ( 1961 ; another Italian production which utilized the now legendary and multi-faceted talents of Mario Bava ) , etc . One final thing : I once missed out on a TV screening of the 1954 French version of ALI BABA AND THE FORTY THIEVES starring Fernandel and directed by Jacques Becker and , even though it doesn't have much of a reputation ( especially within its director's considerable canon ) , I'd love to watch it for myself one day . . .
Conan Unchained : The Making Of " Conan The Barbarian " ( V ) ( Laurent Bouzereau , 2000 )	This is a competent , fairly lengthy but hardly exhaustive documentary on the subject by renowned film-maker / historian Bouzereau . It should perhaps have dug deeper into the history of Conan – creator Robert E . Howard ( and his personal demons ) is only mentioned in passing ; ditto for the influence maverick illustrator Frank Frazetta had on the mythology behind the character ( and the fictionalized era which he inhabited ) – not to mention the film’s sequel , or its own place within the whole sword-and-sorcery cycle prevalent during the early 1980s ! Still , several of the main contributors ( both behind and in front of the camera ) have their say about the film : at the forefront , of course , are John Milius and Arnold Schwarzenegger – but it also goes on to interview Oliver Stone and Max von Sydow ( who , of his performance , recalls best his bloody death scene which remained on the cutting-room floor ! ) . The documentary also deals with the painstaking production – from the film’s elaborate sets to its choreographed swordplay , and even touches upon the creation of CONAN THE BARBARIAN’s special effects ( here the speakers felt the need to remind the audience that these were done in the days before CGI ) . However , some discussion on critical reaction to the film at the time of its release – and how it has worn the passage of time – should not have been amiss .
THE CASE OF THE SCORPION'S TAIL ( Sergio Martino , 1971 )	This isn't as popular as Martino's other gialli , perhaps because his regular leading lady Edwige Fenech ? who was indisposed ? got replaced here by Anita Strindberg ( and with her entrance delayed until almost the half-hour mark ) ; in fact , the film adopts a PSYCHO ( 1960 ) - ish gimmick by having Evelyn Stewart's character take center-stage for the first third of the narrative and then get bumped off ! To make up perhaps for a fairly conventional plot ? with a handful of characters after a missing $1 million in insurance money ? the violence is laid on pretty thick throughout ( though not so much the sex this time around ) ; similarly , the director includes any number of preposterous camera angles to liven up proceedings and disorientate viewers . Frankly , such flamboyant measures ( extending to the trailer , which absurdly likens THE CASE OF THE SCORPION'S TAIL to milestones of German Expressionism , Soviet propaganda cinema and Surrealist films maudits ! ) weren't really needed as interest is generally maintained regardless with the sorting out of the various clues , twists and red herrings . In fact , the film keeps one guessing as to the killer's eventual identity and this certainly add to the fun . The cast helps a lot , too : George Hilton gets one of his meatier parts , while Strindberg does well enough considering ( in fact , I couldn't quite visualize Fenech in the role ! ) ; apart from the requisite figures of authority ? Alberto De Mendoza as an Interpol agent lending a helping hand ( who also ends up getting the girl ! ) and Luigi Pistilli as the local cop on the case ? two Jess Franco alumni , Janine Reynaud and Luis Barboo , surprisingly feature prominently among the suspects / murder victims . Other typical assets are the exotic Mediterranean setting ( mainly Greece ) and yet another solid score by Bruno Nicolai ( coincidentally , himself a Franco regular ) .
THE PURPLE MASK ( H . Bruce Humberstone , 1955 )	This is yet another vintage Hollywood costumed adventure romp , a " Scarlet Pimpernel " clone that proves to be a modest but lively swashbuckler with Tony Curtis cutting a dashing figure as the titular masked avenger ( who , predictably , utilizes a foppish countenance as cover ) . Though awarding the film per se no stars at all , the late eminent British critic Leslie Halliwell nevertheless recommended Curtis ' contribution here when denoting the more noteworthy genre exponents in his " Filmgoer's Companion " ( an informative and vastly entertaining tome which I used to consume in my younger days but , having now been overtaken somewhat by up-to-date information which can be gathered more readily via the Internet , I do miss leafing through ) ! Anyway , though the narrative pretty much follows the traditional pattern ? with The Purple Mask even taking time out for romance ( with unknown but adequate Colleen Miller ) amid his action-packed and danger-fraught exploits ? it's given a considerable boost by once again providing ( as did BOTANY BAY [ 1953 ] : see my review elsewhere ) a formidable antagonist for the hero in Dan O'Herlihy who , like him , is not above using deceptive cunning in carrying out his task and eventually engages Curtis in a fencing duel by the shadow of the guillotine ! Also on hand in the villainous stakes are John Hoyt as the incompetent Chief Of Police , Gene Barry as a Captain Of The Guards ( who is also conveniently enamored of the leading lady ) and , perhaps most surprisingly of all , Robert Cornthwaite ( best-known for playing the misguided scientist in Howard Hawks ' THE THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD [ 1951 ] ) as Napoleon Bonaparte ! Therefore , this was O'Herlihy's first on screen encounter with Napoleon since he would later also appear in the Russian epic WATERLOO ( 1971 ; with Rod Steiger ) ; on the other hand , O'Herlihy had also just come from playing a monarch himself and an ally of Tony Curtis in their previous ( and superior ) collaboration , THE BLACK SHIELD OF FALWORTH ( 1954 ) . Incidentally , the script makes a passing but interesting reference to France's then-First Consul's own bid for power : while he seemed to side with the Revolutionaries , Napoleon secretly harbored a wish for Royalist restoration ( which would eventually occur , albeit briefly , in 1804 ? a year after the events depicted in the film ? with himself as Emperor ) . Finally , THE PURPLE MASK ? along with another popular Universal swashbuckler , the Rock Hudson vehicle CAPTAIN LIGHTFOOT ( 1955 ) , which I had tried to acquire recently but ended up with only 20 minutes of playable film ! ? is conspicuous by its absence on DVD ; consequently , I had to make do in this case with an edition culled from a panned-and-scanned TV screening which , bafflingly , ran for a mere 75 minutes : the movie's full-length is given in various sources as 82 ( which , even making allowances for PAL speed-up , would still leave some 4 minutes unaccounted for ! ) .
800 BULLETS ( Alex De La Iglesia , 2002 )	I rented this one on a hunch , not having watched any of director De La Iglesia's work , even if I had heard of him - if not the film in question . I thought this was going to be an out-and-out Spaghetti Western update , and it looks like it at first , but the way it developed makes it original and even more interesting than I had imagined ! It's frequently uproarious and displays a refreshing irreverence , especially in its use of foul language ( which I found even funnier because it's so similar to our own ) ; astoundingly , there are also sex scenes witnessed by , and almost involving , a minor ! Deliberately paced and overlong , it ultimately emerges as an endearing , even infectious , spoof of Spaghetti Western film-making and the world of stunt-men ( which to me , having been in Hollywood a little while back , has a special relevance ) . Recurring jokes like forgetting the hanged man once the shooting's over , a stuntman dedicated to making his fall from a roof-top as realistic as possible , and the front of a poor woman's house being demolished by a runaway van are very funny , and there's a hilarious funeral finale with a surprising appearance by " Clint Eastwood " ( who , as everyone knows , became a household word in Italian Westerns filmed in Spain ) ! The cast is largely made up of unknowns ( except for Carmen Maura ) but they enter enthusiastically into the tongue-in-cheek spirit of things , with Sancho Gracia's characterization being especially vivid ( at times , even a moving one ) . Indeed , among the various in-jokes which crop up throughout the film is the mention of the Raquel Welch / Burt Reynolds Western 100 RIFLES ( 1969 ) , a film in which Gracia really appeared !
FROM BEYOND { Unrated Director's Cut } ( Stuart Gordon , 1986 )	This is the third film I’ve seen from minor horror expert Stuart Gordon – after THE PIT AND THE PENDULUM ( 1991 ) and EDMOND ( 2005 ) – but the first from his 1980s heyday ; for the record , I’ve been interested in RE-ANIMATOR ( 1985 ) for years , have fairly recently acquired DOLLS ( 1987 ) and will perhaps eventually rent his sci-fi opus , FORTRESS ( 1993 ) . Anyway , to get back to the film under review : once one gets past the outrageously repulsive make-up and special effects – which belie the fact that this is a 22-year old movie and would certainly have put me off completely had I caught it back in its day ( although , I do recall coming across it in video stores at the time ) – FROM BEYOND is a thought-provoking if single-minded sci-fi / horror piece which quite deserves its cult status . Taken from an H . P . Lovecraft original – of whose work Roger Corman’s underrated THE HAUNTED PALACE ( 1963 ) is still the best cinematic adaptation – the film deals with a mad scientist ( amusingly named Pretorius ) who invents a machine which implants a sixth sense within anybody near it , thus enabling one to realize his most repressed and hidden desires : so the scientist is turned into a sadistic torturer of women , the nerdy female psychiatrist ( investigating the latter’s beheading ) takes a liking to fetishistic attire , etc . The lead is Gordon regular Jeffrey Combs ( as the scientist’s assistant who is taken to a mental asylum after narrating the events leading to the latter’s demise ) and , also on hand , is skeptical police officer Ken Foree ( who , unfortunately , bows out too soon ) . It goes without saying that tampering with nature and science is not without its consequences and I’d venture to say that rarely have they been so disgustingly realized on screen – via indescribable , stomach-turning creatures ( which are always invisibly floating around in our space but animate themselves through the use of the machine ) which make the notorious effects for John Carpenter’s THE THING ( 1982 ) look positively tame .
THE NIGHT CALLER ( John Gilling , 1965 )	Low-key but intriguing and generally effective variation on the alien invasion theme ( though the script is far inferior to the Quatermass archetype ) ; as a matter of fact , the police procedural tends to be more engaging than the high-falutin ' scientific theorizing ! Unfortunately , too , some of the dialogue is unintelligible due to the heavy British accents ( but , then , the version I watched was accompanied by subtitles in Italian ! ) . The cast features several familiar British faces ( Maurice Denham , John Carson , Jack Watson , etc . ) ; still , as with many low-budget horror films of its era , the lead role was given to an American actor : in this case , John Saxon - who's pretty adequate under the circumstances , with a blonde Patricia Haines ( whom I recently saw in the awful VIRGIN WITCH [ 1972 ] ) as his female co-star . Aubrey Morris , however , is memorable as the scurrilous editor of a ' girlie ' magazine - which is used as bait for the alien's female victims ( who , as is often the case , has descended to Earth because his own planet has reached saturation point ) . This element gives way to some typically dry British humor ( especially the awkward interrogation of one of the missing girl's simple but cantankerous parents ) . . . but Ballard Berkeley's belated introduction as the Commander steering the operations engaged in the alien's capture can't be taken seriously - in view of his regular appearance as the befuddled Major in the classic TV comedy series FAWLTY TOWERS ( 1975-79 ) , devised by and starring Monty Python's John Cleese ! ! With the imposing figure of the alien generally shown lurking in the shadows or hidden behind heavy clothing and a mask ( shades of the giallo subgenre ? ) , its menace is evoked through the creature's adoption of a mellifluous yet sinister ' human ' voice ; that said , the make-up effects shown intermittently are surprisingly subtle . Even so , the best thing about the film is certainly Stephen Dade's chiaroscuro photography - utilizing some odd angles , particularly during the alien manhunt , obviously inspired by THE THIRD MAN ( 1949 ) ! The rather uneventful cautionary finale , then , is reminiscent of THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL ( 1951 ) .
TRILOGY OF TERROR ( Dan Curtis , 1975 ; TV )	I've always appreciated Curtis ' made-for-TV horror movies ( the two Kolchak films , the Jack Palance version of " Dracula " ) - but have been wary of the daunting task of following the long " Dark Shadows " series through ( and haven't even watched the two films which sprung from it ) ! Anyway , this was another manageable effort of his I was looking forward to - and it didn't disappoint ; all the stories were adapted from the work of Richard Matheson ( who scripted the " Amelia " segment himself , while William F . Nolan did both " Julie " and " Millicent And Therese " ) . Of course , I knew that the third story was the one everybody talked about - but I was absorbed in following the first two nonetheless : the revelation to the opening episode was quite effective ( even if the entire segment is the most modest of all ) , while the second's proved undeniably clever but , at the same time , predictable . The film is clearly a showcase for the versatile talents of Karen Black , but her fellow actors offer solid support - and yet they're all overshadowed by the utterly convincing ' performance ' of the Zuni doll in the " Amelia " story ! The episode started out at a rather deliberate pace , with Black alone in her apartment and having discussions over the telephone with her possessive mother - but when the doll is let loose , the film really hums : actually , I was bowled over with laughter during most of this time because the doll's violent - and noisy - rampage reminded me an awful lot of the messy monsters from the " Gremlins " films ( which must have been inspired by this episode ) ! ! The finale is , again , not so much of a surprise - but the unsettling make-up effects certainly made it unforgettable ! The extras are exemplary and complement the film very nicely - even if Black herself does come off as somewhat condescending . I was also annoyed during the interviews by the lengths to which both Black and Matheson went into trying to detach themselves from the horror genre - she saying that her preference is for science-fiction ( which would constitute a certain intelligence ) , while he states that the word which would best fit his work would be ' terror ' ( with the accent on scares rather than gore ) ; I guess they're both right in a way but I just can't understand why everyone gets so upset with having to consider horror as anything other than the wide-ranging genre it is , making the effort instead to come up with all the various categories and alternate monikers merely to give the impression of being above such distinctly exploitative fare ! ! I was most pleased , however , with Matheson's reference to Jacques Tourneur's NIGHT OF THE DEMON ( 1957 ) - citing it as one of his greatest influences . . .
THE PRICE OF POWER ( Tonino Valerii , 1969 )	I was unfamiliar with this film , until I saw it included in a list of the Top 20 Spaghetti Westerns I recently came across ( following the marathon I made these last few weeks of films from the subgenre ) ; it was auspicious , then , that the film had to turn up almost immediately on late-night Italian TV ( for the first time , I'm pretty sure , in a good number of years ) ! Unfortunately , the cable reception of the channel on which it was broadcast hasn't been great lately : I recorded the film on VHS but I decided not to keep it due to this factor ; as it happened , the very next day I watched the film , I found out that it was available on a Region 2 DVD from Italy ( featuring an interview with uncredited scriptwriter Ernesto Gastaldi ) - and , having been sufficiently impressed , I decided to order it there and then , even if I knew that I wouldn't be getting to the DVD for quite a while as I like to allow some time between one viewing of a film and the next ! A brief parenthesis here : when I recently purchased a spate of Spaghetti Westerns on Italian DVD , I opted not to order Sergio Sollima's FACE TO FACE ( 1967 ) , since I was under the impression that it was a bare-bones affair ; however , I've just learned that the disc actually contains an interview with the director ( as had been the case with THE BIG GUNDOWN [ 1966 ] , which I bought ) . It did seem baffling to me that Sollima wouldn't offer similar contribution to that film's DVD edition when he actually considered FACE TO FACE as his favorite work ( as per the director's talent bio included on the Blue Underground Region 1 disc of yet another Sollima Spaghetti Western - RUN , MAN , RUN [ 1968 ] ) ; the trouble is that I loved THE BIG GUNDOWN so much that I followed it with a viewing of FACE TO FACE via the recording I owned made off Italian TV ! I did order the DVD of that film now - especially since it's still discounted - but as I said with respect to a second look at THE PRICE OF POWER ( although I may still check out Sollima's interview when the disc arrives ) . . . O . K . , rant over : the film under review is quite an unusual Spaghetti Western and a very interesting , indeed ambitious one at that , being a transposition of the JFK assassination case to an Old West setting ! Actually , it's reminiscent of Anthony Mann's terse black-and-white thriller THE TALL TARGET ( 1951 ) - which dealt with an assassination attempt on the life of then-U . S . President Abraham Lincoln . It features one of the most popular Italian stars from this subgenre , Giuliano Gemma , in what is perhaps his most impressive Western role ( many of his other films tended to have a light-hearted bent ) . The supporting cast includes at least two other notables : Van Johnson ( in one of his few and mainly unremarkable Italian films ) as the American President killed in post-Civil War Dallas and Fernando Rey as the head of a conspiracy of Southerners - who not only plots his assassination but also conveniently maneuvers the new acting U . S . leader , Johnson's Vice-President , by means of blackmail ! Benito Stefanelli also makes a good impression as a corrupt sheriff who pursues Gemma all through the picture , and with whom he's engaged a couple of times in a ' duel in the dark ' - with the guns resting on the floor rather than in their respective holsters and the only light in the room provided by the end of the cowboys ' cigars ! Also involved is Ray Saunders as Gemma's black sidekick whom the narrative eventually turns into the doomed " Lee Harvey Oswald " figure . Stelvio Massi - who later cut his teeth , as director , on a number of poliziotteschi - is behind the film's luminous cinematography ; similarly , Luis Enrique Bacalov supplies yet another great " Euro-Cult " score - which is different enough from the style of Ennio Morricone as to be equally distinguishable . Valerii's direction here may mot be as imposing as that in other Spaghetti Westerns but he handles the proceedings efficiently enough ( the final gunfight is especially nicely done ) ; the film is certainly one of the more underrated entries in the subgenre and , for those so inclined , the novelty of the plot line alone should make it one to look out for . . .
FIVE WOMEN AROUND UTAMARO ( Kenji Mizoguchi , 1946 )	This is yet another fine work from Mizoguchi which I’d read about but had never gotten the opportunity to watch until now ; distressingly , I had trouble with the disc once again ( severe pixellation towards the very end ) and , as was the case with THE LIFE OF OHARU ( 1952 ) , I was forced to copy the film anew – luckily , with similar success ( I’m keeping my fingers crossed for the remaining four Japanese titles I’ve got lined up for the rest of the week ! ) . To begin with , the title is accurate in that the protagonist , a Japanese painter of the 17th century , isn’t himself involved with the various female figures who inspire his work . Rather , it’s his friends / colleagues and , in particular , two of them who are torn between a couple of women each – in one case , even ending in tragedy ! With this in mind , the film is generally lighter than most of the director’s work that I’ve watched so far – but that denouement is all the more effective because it’s unexpected ( though followed by an uplifting coda in which the painter resumes his work after serving a 50-day sentence of house arrest for daring to sketch the current Shogun ! ) . Unlike , say , Akira Kurosawa , few actors used by Mizoguchi are recognizable names to Western audiences – however , the acting in his films is certainly no less compelling : that said , given Mizoguchi’s resume ' , it’s not surprising that he’s seemingly less interested in the painter himself than in his subjects ( and especially Kinuyo Tanaka , the director’s frequent muse , who turns in a beautifully nuanced performance as the volatile geisha driven by love to extremes ) . This may be a film about an obsessive artist – whom Mizoguchi is said to have imbued with characteristics inherent in himself – and , yet , its intention isn’t to probe into his character or motivations but rather illustrate the time and milieu in which he operated . . . or , perhaps , to showcase Utamaro’s own " pretentious " dictum that the etchings he made ( apparently with little effort ! ) were more " alive " than those of any of his contemporaries . As would OHARU , the film follows an episodic structure : we begin by his being challenged to a swordfight over the above comment by an exponent of a rival art school , but countering his impulsive outrage by settling over a duel with the brush ( which leaves the latter not merely an admirer of Utamaro’s individualistic style but a willing student and constant companion ! ) . Other major sequences include the one where Utamaro paints directly on the ‘perfect skin’ of a courtesan ( which had previously overwhelmed an eminent tattooist ! ) and the one which sees the painter ( who has been turning below-par work due to a lack of inspiration ) being presented with the opportunity of clandestinely sketching a plethora of concubines who regularly assemble at the river and , watched over by their lord , dive en masse to catch fish ! Reportedly , Mizoguchi had trouble making this film at a time when period pieces were forbidden by the Occupation forces in Japan because of their glorification of feudal values ; besides , the film’s budget apparently wasn’t big enough to afford a crane ( which would have enabled the director’s traditional long and sweeping tracking shots ) – however , he more than compensated with a flawlessly exquisite sense of composition throughout .
THE SPECIALIST ( Sergio Corbucci , 1969 )	Cult film-maker Corbucci's rarest of his thirteen Spaghetti Westerns ( of which I'm only left with WHAT AM I DOING IN THE MIDDLE OF THE REVOLUTION [ 1972 ] to catch ) is one I only became aware of fairly recently via Marco Giusti's " Stracult " guide ; it's an atypically bleak genre gem in the style of the director's own masterpiece , THE GREAT SILENCE ( 1968 ) , complete with desolate snowy landscapes . Johnny Hallyday , the French Elvis Presley , whom I first saw in Jean-Luc Godard's DETECTIVE ( 1985 ) is a curious but highly effective choice to play the loner anti-hero Hud ( who , like Clint Eastwood's The Man With No Name from Sergio Leone's celebrated " Dollars Trilogy " , is fitted with a steel-plate armor for protection ) ; incidentally , I had ' met ' Hallyday's stunning daughter Laura Smet at the 2004 Venice Film Festival but was distracted by the presence of her esteemed director , Claude Chabrol ! Gastone Moschin is another curious addition to the fold ( serving pretty much the same function that Frank Wolff did in THE GREAT SILENCE ) but acquits himself well and is amusingly clumsy in the presence of a bathing Francoise Fabian ; the latter , then , plays a greedy nymphomaniac of a banker's widow who seduces all and sundry in the pursuit of her goals . Sylvie Fennec has the other major female role as a farm girl looked after by Hallyday and who , at one point , is entreated into Free Love by ' hippie ' Apache Gabriella Tavernese ( with this is mind , it's worth noting that the movie features surprising but welcome bouts of nudity from both Fabian and Tavernese ) ! Incidentally , the anachronistic addition of a bunch of long-haired youths ( who also engage in dope-smoking and revolutionary talk ) is a somewhat half-baked attempt at contemporary relevance ? but it all eventually adds to the fun ( besides , even the black barmaid sports an Afro hairdo ! ) . Mario Adorf , too , enjoys himself tremendously with the smallish role of a larger-than-life Mexican bandit nicknamed " El Diablo " ? who keeps a youthful biographer constantly by his side ( an element which may have influenced Clint Eastwood's UNFORGIVEN [ 1992 ] ) and , at one point , challenges the captive Moschin to a head-butting duel ! Having mentioned this , the film also contains one very unusual ' weapon of death ' ? as Hallyday disposes of an adversary by kicking the cash-register of the saloon into his face ! As always , the enjoyably fake fistfights are accompanied by over-emphatic sound effects ; equally typically for the genre , however , the wistful score by Angelo Francesco Lavagnino emerges a most significant asset . Actually , the ambiguous ending is entirely in keeping with the film's generally somber tone ? after Fabian's comeuppance at the hands of the locals , the hippies ( who had previously idolized Hud ) suddenly turn against him when wounded and terrorize the town ( forcing everyone on the street and unclothed ) ? but the unflappable gunman manages to lift himself up to meet their challenge ( they , however , scurry away at the prospect of facing him ! ) and then rides out of town , leaving Fennec behind . In conclusion , I acquired this via a good-quality Widescreen print in Italian albeit with French credits and the occasional lapse ? about one minute of screen-time in all ? into the French language ( where , apparently , the original soundtrack wasn't available ) .
BEASTS ? Episode 1 : BABY ( TV ) ( John Nelson Burton , 1976 )	Having just been disappointed by the Nigel Kneale-scripted THE WOMAN IN BLACK ( 1989 ) , I was glad to get to this vintage TV series which finds him treading more familiar territory ? at least , judging by this first episode ; even so , some eerie touches here ? such as a cradle and , later , a chair rocking of their own accord ? wouldn't be out-of-place in a traditional ghost story ! As in QUATERMASS AND THE PIT ( a 1958 TV series that was eventually successfully adapted for the cinema nine years later ) , which remains Kneale's best offering , it all begins with the discovery ( during excavation work in a country-house ) of the body of a mysterious animal ; as it happens , the proprietor is a young vet ( Simon MacCorkindale ) and , naturally , he would like to analyze it ? with the help of a conceited and patronizing elder colleague ( T . P . McKenna ) . However , his pregnant wife ( Jane Wymark ) has apprehensions about the thing ? which seems to have been buried , and preserved all these years , in an unborn state ? especially after the workers mention a strange case of animal sterility in the region ! Though a bit talky ? particularly with the introduction of McKenna's eccentric wife ( Shelagh Fraser ) ? and the low-budget shows in some obviously faked cat meowing ( ! ) , as with most of Kneale's writing , it's both intelligent and gripping , managing a subtle aura of unease throughout . Most notable in this respect are the shot of the forest suddenly getting overcast ( recalling the conjured storm in NIGHT OF THE DEMON [ 1957 ] ) and , of course , the weird subliminal look of the creature itself ( I was actually reminded here of the similarly bizarre yet subtle monster-in-the-bedroom scene towards the end of THE SHINING [ 1980 ] ) .
BEASTS ? Episode 4 : SPECIAL OFFER ( TV ) ( Richard Bramall , 1976 )	This is a good entry in the series , marking perhaps the most enjoyable episode thus far ? though ending on a tragic note and being somewhat repetitive in the long run . It involves a poltergeist at a supermarket , whose ' source ' is narrowed down to the sexual frustration of a young , frumpy cashier with an inferiority complex ! The special effects are very well done for a TV show : incidentally , the phenomenon is mostly treated in a light vein ( at first , it's taken to be a stray animal and , with the supermarket itself having a squirrel for its mascot , is even referred to by that brand-name ! ) . Even so , coming the same year as CARRIE , the implications of it all are undeniably chilling ? considering also that it increases in fury with each subsequent manifestation . As ever , the performances ? especially those of the neurotic protagonist and the object of her unrequited affection , the patronizing albeit long-suffering manager ( shamelessly involved with an attractive colleague and later seen flirting with a prospective mature employee ) who actually hates her guts and constantly tries to have the girl sacked ? lend much-needed persuasion to the unfolding supernatural events .
BEASTS ? Episode 6 : DURING BARTY'S PARTY ( TV ) ( Don Taylor , 1976 )	Slow-starting but eventually intense two-hander ( including an ageing Elizabeth Sellars ) about a country-house being infested by a multitude of rats ( which are never actually seen ? kudos , then , to the realistic and genuinely scary sound effects , lending the whole an appropriate apocalyptic feel ) . The title refers to a goofy radio program which first alerts citizens to the ' plague ' ; at first , only one or two rats are heard scratching at the floor-boards ( they're trying to get in to shelter from the cold ) ? so that Sellars ' husband ignores her appeals of the impending danger ( already evident from the mysterious presence of an abandoned car outside the couple's home , which is actually the very opening shot of the episode ! ) and attempts to chase them away by merely stamping his foot , or beating a club , on the ground ! ! However , the situation soon deteriorates ? especially since it's apparent that the rodents are impervious to all forms of poison : they have somehow evolved and , in fact , the radio presenter starts referring to them as " super-rats " ! In desperation , Sellars contacts Barty to ask for help ? but he's not familiar with the area in which the house is situated and , furthermore , gets the surname wrong ! All of a sudden , though , the relentless ( and deafening ) scratching and screeching stops ? the distraught couple open a window in relief , only to ' see ' an arriving partying neighbor and his guests fall foul of the deadly mass of rats ?
BEASTS ? Episode 3 : THE DUMMY ( TV ) ( Don Leaver , 1976 )	The best " Beasts " episode thus far is a mix of domestic melodrama ( with psychological undertones ) and a satirical look at low-budget horror film-making ( being peopled by back-stabbing , angst-ridden or otherwise pretentious individuals is a joke in its own right ? though the ever-optimistic tea-lady borders on caricature ! ) . Alternately funny , mawkish and chilling , Nigel Kneale's script also proved typically prescient ? as its depiction of a dumb and seemingly endless franchise revolving around a larger-than-life boogeyman would soon overtake the genre ( a practice which , regrettably , holds to this very day ) . It's commendably marked , too , by good performances across the board ? including such familiar faces as Hammer regular Thorley Walters ( playing an absent-minded thespian ! ) and Patricia Haines , from the underrated THE NIGHT CALLER ( 1965 ) and the abysmal VIRGIN WITCH ( 1972 ) , in the role of the estranged wife of the nondescript actor behind the titular creature ( incidentally , the pathetic latter character evokes memories of Victor Carroon from " The Quatermass Experiment " ? another ' human monster ' conceived much earlier by Kneale himself ) .
BRITANNIA HOSPITAL ( Lindsay Anderson , 1982 )	This is the last entry in The Mick Travis Trilogy ( also comprising IF . . . . [ 1968 ] and O LUCKY MAN ! [ 1973 ] , all directed by Anderson , written by David Sherwin and starring Malcolm McDowell as Travis ) and the only one I hadn't watched before ; ironically , the film made it to DVD before the others which are still M . I . A . ( being owned by the majors , Paramount and Warners respectively ) though both have been rumored as being " in preparation " for what seems like forever ! ! As with HELL IS A CITY ( 1960 ) and THE CRIMINAL ( 1960 ) , I had my eyes on the Anchor Bay DVD of this title for the longest time but only now have I finally taken the plunge to acquire it - though , in its case , this had more to do with the fact that the film was largely considered a failure , certainly in comparison with its more highly-regarded predecessors ! Actually , it comes off as quite underrated and its satire on British society at large - with the titular hospital serving more or less as a microcosm of all that was not well with the country during the early 80s - is just as harsh , if admittedly somewhat hit-and-miss ( the " Frankenstein " scenes , for instance , and the fact that royal representatives are played by a midget and a man in drag are more tasteless than anything else ! ) . The thing is , however , that the film became part of the trilogy by accident and , in fact , McDowell isn't really the lead character - so that it's not quite as focused as IF . . . . and O LUCKY MAN ! , and even borrows elements from both of them ( the revolutionary aspect from the former and the bizarre experiments , mentioned above , from the latter ) which aren't as successful this time around ! Still , it's very funny - for those who can take its unbridled savagery - along the way and the cast is brimming with talented character actors ( Leonard Rossiter , Graham Crowden , Joan Plowright , Jill Bennett , Peter Jeffrey , Brian Pettifer , Dandy Nichols , Richard Griffiths , Brian Glover , Robbie Coltrane , uncredited bits by Alan Bates and Arthur Lowe , and even unlikely appearances - in fairly important roles - by Robin Askwith and Mark Hamill ! ) , many of whom had already appeared in the two earlier Mick Travis films . Unfortunately , the score by Alan Price ( ex-member of The Animals ) - whose O LUCKY MAN ! soundtrack , including a number of songs , had been one of its major assets - is underwhelming and , typical of old British films , the dialogue is hard to grasp sometimes due to the limited sound recording and the actors ' heavy accents !
RAMBO ( Sylvester Stallone , 2008 )	The fourth Rambo movie has been a long time coming ? 20 years ? and is the first one to be directed by Stallone himself ; like ROCKY BALBOA ( 2006 ) , this is a surprising return to form for Sly ? and , in this case , emerges as perhaps the best in the series . Even so , the storyline is pretty thin ? Rambo is hired to free a group of doctors taken prisoners in the war-torn jungles of Burma ? and the film atypically short for contemporary fare ( the end credits start rolling around the 80-minute mark ! ) . However , Stallone makes up for these with a thoroughly unflinching portrayal of the cruelty and gruesomeness of war ? which , instead of a modern Hollywood blockbuster , brings to mind those objectionable Italian-made jungle adventures or even the notorious " video nasties " of the 1980s ! As a result , it would be interesting to see how the previous entries in the series stack up against this no-holds-barred bloodthirsty update but , alas , presently I don't have enough time on my hands to find out ! What is certain , however , is that Stallone's " Planet Hollywood " pals ? Arnold Schwarzenegger and Bruce Willis ? must be gnashing their teeth in envy ? as Rambo unequivocally proves here that he truly is " The Last Action Hero " . Incidentally , one is never really sure why the atrocities on the Burmese villagers are being perpetrated ( and on whose orders ) which , if one isn't bothered to come up with the expected metaphors , rather makes the relentless display of carnage throughout seem somewhat pointless and altogether less than entertaining ? despite the familiar strains of Jerry Goldsmith's stirring Rambo theme ! P . S . By the way , the print I watched sported the JOHN RAMBO title which , bafflingly , was shortened for the U . S . ? as it would have tied in well with ROCKY BALBOA itself .
The River ( 1951 )	India has , through the years , fascinated many a major film-maker , including Robert Flaherty , Fritz Lang , Louis Malle , Michael Powell , Roberto Rossellini and Jean Renoir . Renoir's film , based on a novel by English novelist Rumer Godden of BLACK NARCISSUS ( 1947 ) fame , is as gorgeously shot ( in ravishing Technicolor ) as can be expected from a master film-maker and the son of a famous French impressionist painter ; however , the narrative itself is rather disappointingly thin to support its 99-minute running time . Having said that , the coming-of-age story of two English girls living in India and loving the same young officer wounded in WWII , is appealingly performed by Nora Swinburne , Esmond Knight , Arthur Shields and Adrienne Corri . The central character , played winningly by newcomer Patricia Walters ( whose only film this turned out to be ) is a stand-in for Godden herself , whose considerable writing talent was not encouraged by her stern family . The film offers Renoir another chance to show his humanist side dwelling as it does on the strange ( to Western eyes ) social and religious customs of the Indian people ; even so , when all is said and done , there is just too much local color in the film . However , as Renoir is not only one of my favorite film directors but arguably the greatest of all French film-makers , I am confident that a second viewing of THE RIVER will elevate significantly my estimation of it , as it is probably too rich an experience to savor all at one go . Among the copious supplements on the Criterion DVD , there is a typically enthusiastic interview with Martin Scorsese ( who also helped in funding the film's restoration ) who waxes lyrically on the effect the film had on him as a 9 year-old film-goer ; surprisingly for me , he also confesses that the appeal of Renoir's masterpiece , LA REGLE DU JEU ( 1939 ) , an automatic candidate for the title of the greatest film of all time , escapes him ! !
REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT ( Ralph Nelson , 1962 )	I had missed out on an Italian TV broadcast of this acclaimed boxing drama in the 80s and , even if it did get released on DVD on both regions , I never got to pick it up until now because its lack of any significant supplements kept pushing it back . Anyway , I got to watch and own it now and it was certainly worth the wait as this must surely rank among the best films that deal with boxing . Interestingly , REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT was originally previewed at a much longer running time ( featuring some 16 minutes of additional footage ) but the version I watched is the more familiar 86-minute cut . The film was superbly written by Rod Serling ? best-known for writing many of THE TWILIGHT ZONE ( 1959-64 ) episodes and introducing the show ? who , among others , provided the screenplay for such notable films as PATTERNS ( 1956 ) , SEVEN DAYS IN MAY ( 1964 ) and PLANET OF THE APES ( 1968 ) . Actually , this was the fourth filming of the play and previous TV versions ? both made in 1957 ? starred Jack Palance and , of all people , Sean Connery in the role played here by Anthony Quinn ! The four leads are all outstanding : Quinn gives what is arguably his most moving performance as the dim-witted boxer who cannot even talk coherently with all the beatings he took in the ring and might even lose his sight if he keeps at it much longer ; Jackie Gleason is excellent as Quinn's manager who is driven to bet against his own man in order to collect some fast dough and pay off his debts to an androgynous racketeer breathing down his neck ; Mickey Rooney is just terrific as Quinn's loyal handler ( and an ex-prizefighter himself ) who quickly sees through all of Gleason's schemes to keep Quinn in the ring for his own personal gain ; and Julie Harris as the lonesome social worker who takes pity on Quinn and tries to get him employed away from ringside perils . The blooming MARTY ( 1955 ) - ish romance between Quinn and Harris is perhaps a bit too good to be true and occurs rather too suddenly for this cynical viewer but it does not in any way detract from the film's stifling recreation of the seamy ambiance ? strikingly similar to that of THE HUSTLER ( 1961 ) , also featuring Jackie Gleason ? aided in no small measure by Arthur J . Ornitz's noir-ish lighting and Laurence Rosenthal's jazzy score , not to mention the appearance of real-life boxing pros such as Cassius Clay ( playing himself as one of Quinn's ringside opponents ) and Jack Dempsey . Ralph Nelson was an erratic director with pretensions : I've watched 8 of his films so far and a few more have been numerous times on TV ? FATHER GOOSE ( 1964 ) , ONCE A THIEF ( 1965 ) , THE WRATH OF GOD ( 1972 ) ? so I guess I should make an extra effort now to catch them the next time they're on ; REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT , while actually his debut film , remains possibly his most satisfying work all round and deservedly earned him a nod from the Directors ' Guild of America .
TABOO ( Nagisa Oshima , 1999 )	Oshima's last film to date is only the fourth of his that I've watched - following IN THE REALM OF THE SENSES ( 1976 ) , EMPIRE OF PASSION ( 1978 ) and , more recently while in Hollywood , DEATH BY HANGING ( 1968 ) - and it's arguably one of his strongest and most compelling efforts , proving that his considerable talent didn't dissipate with the passage of time . As is the director's fashion and , indeed , the title itself would suggest , the film treats the controversial issue of homosexuality in a school for samurai during the 1900s . Thankfully , though , there's no graphic display of sexuality here - as was the case with the pornographic REALM ; what we do get , however , is an exquisitely photographed recreation of the period ( utilizing red and blue filters for maximum effect ) , set to a simple but evocative score from Ryuichi Sakamoto . The cast is surprisingly headed by Takeshi Kitano under his acting nom-de-plume of " Beat " Takeshi and , as always , he delivers a quietly impressive performance ; the fight scenes , while not particularly spectacular apart from a couple of bloody beheadings , create the required tension and certainly keep one watching . The latter stages of the film , which involves a hunt for the serial killer of homosexual samurai ( ! ) , provide a welcome touch of mystery and lead to an unexpected but wholly satisfying conclusion .
BALLAD OF A SOLDIER ( Grigori Chukhrai , 1959 )	This simple , sensitively handled love story with a WWII background is often bundled together with Mikhail Kalatozov's THE CRANES ARE FLYING ( 1957 ) - they were both issued simultaneously on R1 DVD by Criterion and will likewise be issued on R2 by Nouveaux Pictures next January - but actually they are poles apart in terms of stylistic approach . Director Chukhrai shows little of the overpoweringly visual virtuosity of Kalatozov's film ( except for the superb sequence near the beginning which earns the main character his heroic status ) preferring to capture the reality of the scene rather than its emotional core . Even so , BALLAD OF A SOLDIER is a beautifully made film with winning performances from its youthful leads : a 19-year old boy who wins a much-coveted 6-day leave from the front after blowing up two enemy tanks single-handedly and the suspicious waif he befriends ( and subsequently falls in love with ) on his clandestine train journey . Events beyond his control contrive to make his visit to his farm-laborer mother a pitifully short one after which , the unidentified narrator tells us , he is once again drafted off to the front to his eventual death ( which we never actually see ) ; his misadventures during that train journey and visit to his village take up the bulk of the film as he meets a one-legged soldier coming reluctantly back home to his wife , a greedy train guard who is constantly demanding food from the soldier as a bribe against his telling his superiors that they are stowaways , the duplicitous wife of a comrade of his and his bed-ridden , ever optimistic father , etc .
THE NORLISS TAPES ( TV ) ( Dan Curtis , 1973 )	This was horror exponent Curtis ' follow-up to the popular made-for-TV genre efforts THE NIGHT STALKER ( 1971 ) and THE NIGHT STRANGLER ( 1972 ) , featuring Darren McGavin as Carl Kolchak , but with a new protagonist in Roy Thinnes ' David Norliss . The overall style ( down to the intermittent narration ) and supernatural theme involved are remarkably similar ? though the San Francisco-based writer hero in this case is much more somber than the wisecracking but dogged reporter from Chicago . These two elements actually spelt doom for the Norliss character as it seems that when it was time to create a full-blown series ( even if it extended to just one season and 20 episodes ) , the choice fell upon the humor-tinged exploits of Kolchak ? In any case , the premise itself ? dying sculptor turns to the occult and is allowed to ' come back ' in return for ' giving life ' through his work to a demon ? is undeniably intriguing ; the creepily effective zombie make-up ( these scenes naturally constitute the film's highlights ) resembles the one seen in DEATHDREAM ( 1972 ) . Though the abrupt finale actually leaves Norliss ' fate hanging , this can be excused ? since the film was obviously conceived as a pilot , so that his story was intended to resume in subsequent installments ! Incidentally , there are a couple of other illogicalities owing to the necessary streamlining : while the events related in the film are seen to fit on just one tape , the final session in the creation of the sculpture entails no more than a couple of brief strokes to the eyes ! Supporting Thinnes ( by the way , I've just acquired Season One of the vintage sci-fi series THE INVADERS [ 1967-8 ] , which had actually made his name ? though I probably won't be able to include it in this Halloween challenge ) is a good cast : Don Porter ( appearing as Norliss ' publisher ) , Angie Dickinson ( the sculptor's wife ) , Michele Carey ( her sister and a Norliss acquaintance ) , Claude Akins ( the requisite disbelieving sheriff ) , Vonetta McGee ( the occultist who gave the sculptor the magical ring which enabled his subsequent resurrection ) and Hurd Hatfield ( a debonair but shady patron of the arts with ambitions above his station ) . For the record , I'll be following this with two of Dan Curtis ' feature-films ? HOUSE OF DARK SHADOWS ( 1970 ) and NIGHT OF DARK SHADOWS ( 1971 ) ; I had also intended to check out his TV version of THE TURN OF THE SCREW ( 1974 ) , but I decided to leave it for an eventual triple-bill of adaptations of the Henry James source novel along with THE INNOCENTS ( 1961 ) and THE NIGHTCOMERS ( 1971 ) .
ALICE ( Jan Svankmajer , 1988 )	This is possibly the best-regarded of the myriad film versions of Lewis Carroll's " Alice In Wonderland " , a relatively recent undertaking but a distinctly individualistic one by famed Czech animator / puppeteer Svankmajer ( and which actually served as my introduction to his work ) . Knowing of its reputation , I had long desired to watch the film ; however , having done so , I can't help feeling slightly let down ? not because it's not as good as I expected , or as weird as I had been led to believe but , rather , because of the liberties it takes with Carroll's original . God knows there are enough bizarre characters , situations and dialogue in the perennial children's classic ( popularized by previous film and TV adaptations , both live-action and animated ) ; however , Svankmajer opts to drop many of these ( we're left with an awful lot of the White Rabbit , The Frog , The Fish , The Duchess and the Baby-turned-Pig , the members of the eccentric Tea Party , the Croquet game , etc . ) for his own creations . It's not so much that I'm a purist where such things are concerned but , to me , what novelties we get in this version are not only unnecessary ( though they sure make for some arresting , to say nothing of far from kiddie , visuals and occasionally amusing ? such as the fact that the White Rabbit's interior consists of sawdust which it also eats [ ! ] or The Mouse building a fire and setting up tent on Alice's scalp ) but , frankly , no match for what Carroll himself had envisaged to begin with . Consequently , the author's absurdist but essentially innocent viewpoint doesn't jell with the film-maker's outbursts of savage surrealism ? so that one has a hard time believing at the end that it was all a little girl's fantasy ! With this in mind , the heroine here is perhaps the only one I've seen who's anywhere near the right age for the character ( incidentally , Alice is replaced by a doll when she shrinks in size ! ) ; even so , Svankmajer's decision to have her provide constant narration ? often of the most elementary kind , thus rendering it somewhat monotonous ? is baffling to say the least !
QUATERMASS II { Episodes 1-6 } ( Rudolph Cartier , 1955 ; TV )	The 1957 film version of " Quatertmass II " was superior to its predecessor , and one can only assume that the serial was too ; again , it obviously goes deeper into the various themes than the film does , but it's interesting to see how Kneale was able to compress his own work without losing the essential quality and potency of his concept ( we've seen several films which have had large chunks removed from them with the result that one would hardly recognize the original - but it's certainly not the case with the Quatermass series ! ) . All things considered , I guess I prefer the films to the serials for two reasons : one , the fact that the former - even if still done on a low budget - were invariably more polished ( given their crisp photography as opposed to the fuzziness of a TV program ) ; the other reason is the essential tautness of the films - the serials don't necessarily feel draggy and are certainly never boring but , watched in one sitting ( which , I guess , was never the intention to begin with ! ) , Kneale's gripping and thought-provoking plots could make for a tiresome overall experience ! ! John Robinson replaced Reginald Tate ( who had died in the meantime ) as Professor Quatermass ; he does a good job at it but , from the three actors who performed the character on TV ( I haven't watched John Mills in the final serial , named simply QUATERMASS , from 1979 ) , he's the one who comes closest to Brian Donlevy's interpretation in the first two films and which so dissatisfied Kneale ! The cast also features Hugh Griffith as Quatermass ' assistant and future stalwart of British horror cinema Rupert Davies as a government official . The fact of these being live broadcasts was betrayed more than anything else during this particular serial by the surprising number of lines flubbed by the actors throughout - chief among them Robinson himself ! Besides , even if scenes that were made memorable by the films ( which I obviously watched prior to the serials ) generate their own tension and excitement on the small screen , the film's ending is preferable to the one presented here - in which Robinson and Griffith are flown into outer space in order to destroy the planet which was attempting to colonize Earth .
GET OUT YOUR HANDKERCHIEFS ( Bertrand Blier , 1978 )	This Best Foreign-Language Film Oscar winner from France is quite atypical material for such an accolade ( though , admittedly , there was not much competition that year ) : not only is it a sex comedy , but a potentially controversial one involving both a ménage-a'-trois and paedophelia ( hence , the title's suggestion of sentimentality could not be farther off the mark ) ! Being familiar with the equally ' naughty ' GOING PLACES ( 1974 ) from the same team of writer-director Blier and male stars Gerard Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere , I knew more or less what to expect : the end result , then , is just as entertaining ( and overstretched ) but also , perhaps , a tad superior . Genuinely original and undeniably very funny , the films sees husband-and-wife Depardieu and Carole Laure going through a crisis because of the latter's perennial depression and resultant frigidity ; the former sees a way out by asking perfect stranger Dewaere to become her lover , in the hope of relighting the woman's dormant passion . Still , while the two like each other , they begin to mope over their disservice to Depardieu and , soon , it's back to square one for Laure ! The narrative takes an episodic form , wherein the trio first meet a flustered green-grocer ? a pre-LA CAGE AUX FOLLES ( 1978 ) Michel Serrault ? and manage to turn him into a lover of classical music ( Dewaere is a Mozart devotee ' ) and , later , a precocious teenage camper ( Dewaere is also an instructor of Physical Education ) who , picked on by his peers for being the son of an industrialist , is taken under her wing by Laure ? and ends up being the one to provide sexual gratification for the unemotional woman , even getting her pregnant ! The male stars ? who find themselves bonding amid such an unusual turn-of-events ? are delightful as the perplexed but earnest lovers ; Laure , however , has the difficult task of balancing attractiveness with an ordinary and downright sickly demeanor . Perhaps the biggest visual gags involve the identical sweaters worn by most of the male principals from time to time ( Laure gets over her particular hang-ups through knitting in the nude ! ) as well as the reaction of the boy's parents to his escapade ? the mother becomes an amnesiac when she overturns with her car on giving chase ( and eventually hooks up with Serrault ! ) and , following the son's announcement of Laure's impending motherhood by his doing ( the woman having ultimately taken employment / residence in their house ) , the father is reduced to a wheelchair-bound vegetable . Incidentally , the very next day after watching GET OUT YOUR HANDKERCHIEFS , I acquired another well-regarded Blier / Depardieu title i . e . BUFFET FROID ( 1979 ) ? to eventually go along with two more films of theirs I own but have yet to watch ( TENUE DE SOIREE ' [ 1986 ] , albeit in French only , and TOO BEAUTIFUL FOR YOU [ 1989 ] ) ?
OKLAHOMA CRUDE ( Stanley Kramer , 1973 )	Arguably the best latter-day Stanley Kramer film ( i . e . made during his lean 1969-79 period ) ; being a light-hearted romp with a mean streak , it might also be his oddest . It features an eclectic cast , with both George C . Scott ( as a drifter ) and John Mills ( as Faye Dunaway's estranged father ) shining in their comical roles ; Dunaway herself ( in an unflattering black wig ) and Jack Palance ( as a menacing thug , what else ? ) are also well-cast . Henry Mancini's flavorful score ( and song ) adds to the film's eccentricity , given its proliferation of foul language and occasional bouts of violence . In essence , patchy but generally enjoyable - and occasionally uproarious ( Scott's priceless reaction to Dunaway's Third Sex speech and the second Scott-Palance confrontation ) . I had this on a VHS of wretched quality for years ( though the quality of Robert Surtees ' cinematography is still evident ) , but only watched it now to commemorate Palance's passing .
The Bird With The Crystal Plumage ( 1970 )	Just last Sunday I watched Dario Argento's THE BIRD WITH THE CRYSTAL PLUMAGE ( 1970 ) for the very first time ( taped off Italian TV ) ? followed in the next couple of days by his well-done 4-part TV series DOOR INTO DARKNESS ( 1973 ) . Anyway , I enjoyed PLUMAGE a great deal ( despite , or perhaps because of , its relative lack of gore ) and feel it's one of Argento's very best ; in fact , I'd rank it just below SUSPIRIA ( 1977 ) and DEEP RED ( 1975 ) ? edging out TENEBRE ( 1982 ) by a hair ! The film is virtually a dry run for DEEP RED itself : the foreigner eye-witness hero ; its obsession with paintings , and the link they provide to a trauma from the past ; and , of course , the figure of the black-gloved killer in a dark raincoat . However , for all its positive elements , Argento clearly has yet to find his footing here , especially in the way the film feels the need to conclude with a psychiatrist explaining ( unconvincingly ) the killer's particular hang-up , in the style of Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO ( 1960 ) !
THE PIRATES OF BLOOD RIVER ( John Gilling , 1962 )	I'd been wanting to check this one out ever since coming across a poster of it , as a double-bill with MYSTERIOUS ISLAND ( 1961 ) , amongst a whole bunch of old newspaper cuttings of local releases from the 1950s and 1960s which my father used to collect and glue in scrapbook form in his teenage years ! It's never been shown on TV in my neck of the woods , so I had to wait until now to watch the film ? and it didn't disappoint : a familiar but undeniably vivid , indeed vigorous , action-packed adventure with no ounce of fat during its 87-minute length ? yet containing the expected Hammer touches of nastiness , particularly with its notorious piranha sequences ( which is the reason why the river of the title is so named ! ) . Casting is terrific all round : Kerwin Mathews ( at his best in such surroundings ) is a believable hero ; Christopher Lee looks great with an eye-patch and even affects a more-or-less authentic French accent ; his pirate entourage , then , includes the likes of Peter Arne , Oliver Reed and Michael Ripper ( though his quaint pirate lingo begins to grate after a while ) ; among the locals are Glenn Corbett , FIRST MAN INTO SPACE ( 1959 ) ' s Marla Landi ( as Mathews ' sister and over whom Arne and Reed engage in a duel blindfolded ! ) , and Andrew Keir ( as the hero's stern father but who ultimately sacrifices himself for the good of the community ) . Incidentally , considering the piracy theme , one of the oddest aspects about this particular film is that the action takes place entirely on land ! When we first see Lee and company , they ' save ' the life of Mathews ? who's just escaped from a penal colony ( to which his own father had sentenced him after being caught red-handed in an adulterous liaison and whose partner ended up food for the killerfish ! ) . They decide to accompany him to his people's settlement ? fugitive Huguenots who have established themselves in England ? because Lee believes them to be in possession of a fortune ( even if Mathews himself tells the pirates there's no such thing ) . Soon , the buccaneers take over the village and start to exterminate the citizens ( in twos ) for the length of time that the location of the treasure isn't divulged ! ; eventually , Mathews is told it does exist and that , as community leader , his father is the only one who might be aware of the actual ' site ' ? so he pleads with him to give up the gold for the sake of the people ? but the old man is still cross with his son and refuses ! The sly Lee , observing the scene from afar , concludes that the plunder may be hidden behind the statue of the community's founder ? which he orders his men to pull down , only to reveal nothing ; however , Mathews insists and decides to scrape off the paint on the statue , which turns out to be made of solid gold ! After this , the pirates are ready to leave but they take both Mathews and Keir for insurance ? especially since a small group of townsfolk , led by Corbett , have fled their control and are organizing raids against them and laying booby-traps in their path ! Finally , the two bands meet head-on by the river ( where the pirates have built a raft to transport both the loot and their own ever diminishing number ) ; incidentally , the buccaneers themselves rise against their leader ? an opposition led by former lackey Ripper , whom Lee had earlier slighted . In any case , as is typical of such films , the prime members of each group are made to face off ? so that we get Arne fighting Corbett and Lee dueling with Mathews ? and , as always , however inexperienced , good triumphs over evil ( though , in the meantime , as I said earlier , the burly Keir throws himself into the river to demolish the raft ? before both he and the pirates on board once more attract the attention of the piranhas ) . From what I've read since this film's DVD release as part of Columbia / Hammer's " Icons Of Adventure " set , it seems to be the one getting the least consideration ; I beg to differ and find it perhaps the most purely enjoyable of the lot ? if , for nothing else , due to the stalwart cast but also the sure-fire elements of hidden loot and underwater menace . Finally , it's worth noting that co-writer / director Gilling ( here working from a Jimmy Sangster story which he would himself rehash into another Hammer / Lee / Ripper adventure outing , THE DEVIL-SHIP PIRATES [ 1964 ] , conveniently also included on the Columbia set and which I actually watched soon after ! ) made quite a few films in similar vein : THE BANDIT OF ZHOBE ( 1959 ) with Victor Mature ; FURY AT SMUGGLERS ' BAY ( 1961 ) , a non-Hammer effort with Peter Cushing ; and , for the famed horror company , THE SCARLET BLADE ( 1963 ) and THE BRIGAND OF KANDAHAR ( 1965 ) ? both with Oliver Reed . For the record , out of all of these , only the Cushing title is available on DVD and a Region 2 exclusive at that !
PRETTY BABY ( Louis Malle , 1978 )	This was Louis Malle's first American movie and another one - like ZAZIE DANS LE METRO ( 1960 ) , MURMUR OF THE HEART ( 1972 ) , LACOMBE LUCIEN ( 1974 ) , BLACK MOON ( 1975 ) and AU REVOIR , LES ENFANTS ( 1987 ) - which dealt with the world of children . It was also a notoriously scandalous film because of child pornography issues ( the setting is a New Orleans brothel ) , which makes it a surprising choice for DVD release in this age of political correctness - although Paramount basically just slapped it onto disc , as it's a no-frills release ( with not even a trailer to go with it ) ! However , despite a notable cast ( Keith Carradine , Susan Sarandon , Barbara Steele and Gerrit Graham ) , the film only really comes to life - after a rather wandering first half - when the Lolita-esquire elements of the Brooke Shields character take center stage . As a matter of fact , Shields became an international superstar with her role in PRETTY BABY - which is similar to the one played by Jodie Foster in TAXI DRIVER ( 1976 ) . Malle does not shrink from showing its protagonists ( especially 12 year-old Shields ) in the nude - but it's always tastefully presented , i . e . in a non-exploitative manner . Besides , the film's period reconstruction is impeccable . . .
SONG OF THE SOUTH ( Harve Foster and Wilfred Jackson , 1946 )	I recorded this " notorious " Disney film off Italian TV ( only the second time I recall it ever being shown over the years ) on the strength of the heated online discussions which turn up from time to time in such Forums as this one and , in fact , I immediately sat down to watch it when I came home from work to see what all the fuss was about . Well , in my modest opinion , this is yet another case of " much ado about nothing " . . . True , the film ( including most of the songs ) was dubbed in Italian so , I guess , some of the offending " racist " content has necessarily been toned down as a result but , having watched it , I don't buy into the objection that the film minimizes - or even glorifies in any way - the hardships of black slavery inflicted by their Southern masters . If anything , the character of Uncle Remus ( perfectly essayed by Honorary Oscar recipient James Baskett ) is depicted as being an intelligent , literate and even independent soul with a terrific imagination in his dreaming up the world of Brer Rabbit and his cronies ( enacted in the film in cartoon form ) . Where is the offence ? Is the Uncle Remus character any less formidable or any less representative of his people than Rex Ingram in THE GREEN PASTURES ( 1936 ) and Hattie McDaniel in GONE WITH THE WIND ( 1939 ) ? And yet those two movies have never been subjected to all the fuss - not to mention withdrawal from public view - made over this film . . . In any case , the film is a pleasant , folksy tale which is highlighted by the animation sequences ( directed by frequent Disney animator Wilfred Jackson ) , superb color cinematography by the legendary Gregg Toland , a catchy Oscar-winning song , " Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah " and is also notable for introducing young Bobby Driscoll to the Disney stable .
THAT TOUCH OF MINK ( Delbert Mann , 1962 )	To begin with , I can’t tell you how many times I’ve missed out on this one on Italian TV over the years ; in retrospect , my decision not to watch it had to do with two factors above all else – my resistance to Doris Day’s charms and the fact that this is the kind of film that ought to be watched in English , as the sparkling Oscar-nominated dialogue would lose a lot in the translation ( even if I did catch all of Day’s famous pairings with Rock Hudson in this manner – incidentally , there’s an amusing in-joke about him here ) . I say this because leading man Cary Grant is my favorite actor and this , one of his last vehicles , is well-regarded – ironically , now that I’ve finally got around to it , the viewing was still compromised by the panning-and-scanning of the image from the original Panavision format ( though it curiously reverted to the correct ratio for one scene set in a baseball stadium ) ! Anyway , THAT TOUCH OF MINK – chic , easy-going and considered by film critic Leslie Halliwell as the quintessential Doris Day movie – proved quite engaging despite essentially thin plotting . The cast ( including Gig Young as Grant’s cynical subordinate i . e . not his usual ‘Other Man’ characterization , Audrey Meadows ditto as Day’s room-mate , and John Astin as a lecher pursuing the typically virginal heroine ) is near-perfect and there’s a fair smattering of good dialogue and situations throughout its breezy 99-minute duration . My favorite line is when Grant remarks that Freud would have burnt his couch and gladly traded Psychology for a spot managing a delicatessen if he had to put up with Doris Day ; as for the comic highlights – Young , mistaken for Grant , being assaulted by Meadows every time he tries to get service at the canteen where she works and again when he tries to pay Doris a visit at her home ; Dick Sargent’s bit as a flustered newly-wed with spouse problems – at one point absent-mindedly walking straight into the pool – during the sojourn at Bermuda ; finally asked by the heroine for a date – if only to spite Grant , Astin can only muster a relative’s poultry van as a means of transportation , even needing to make a commission in Hoboken along the way ! ; there’s another bit of mistaken identity as first Grant and then Young barge in on meek John Fiedler and his blonde wife at the run-down motel , giving him a piece of their mind because they take him to be Astin ; Young’s intermittent visits to his shrink – eventually , he brings up Grant and Day’s problems but the psychiatrist thinks the patient’s in a gay relationship , culminating in a great fade-out gag at the very end when he meets Young on the street and the latter’s overseeing ‘their’ baby ! Incidentally , this was an atypical assignment for director Mann since he was usually an exponent of realistic dramas . By the way , of Grant’s latter-day comedic work , I recently acquired FATHER GOOSE ( 1964 ; which I’ve yet to watch ) and WALK , DON’T RUN ( 1966 ) ; furthermore , I may also get my hands on HOUSEBOAT ( 1958 ) . As for Day’s genre efforts , I have MOVE OVER , DARLING ( 1963 ; the remake of an old Cary Grant vehicle – MY FAVORITE WIFE [ 1940 ] ) , THE GLASS BOTTOM BOAT ( 1966 ) and CAPRICE ( 1967 ) , all of which are still unwatched , as is THE THRILL OF IT ALL ( 1963 ) which might soon be likewise added to my collection .
Five Star Final ( 1931 )	A powerful , uncompromising early look at " Yellow Journalism " which made a great enough impact at the time to be counted among the year's best films at the Academy Awards ? to say nothing of the rush of similar pictures which followed in its wake , culminating in Howard Hawks ' masterpiece , HIS GIRL Friday ( 1940 ) . Edward G . Robinson is re-united here with the director of LITTLE CAESAR ( 1930 ) , the film that made him a star , and delivers another great performance which is sufficiently nuanced to anchor the somewhat melodramatic plot in reality . Supporting him , among many others , are Aline MacMahon as his long-suffering secretary who's secretly in love with him and Boris Karloff in a marvelous turn as the most shamelessly hypocritical reporter on the newspaper's payroll . The cynical , rapid-fire dialogue gives it an edge and an authenticity that's almost impossible to recapture these days and , needless to say , became one of the key elements in this type of film . The film features a number of good scenes but the highlights would have to be : the split-screen technique introduced to shut out the former convict , who is now being hounded by " The Gazette " , from having a conversation with either the owner of the paper or its news editor ( Robinson ) ; the lengthy and heart-breaking scene in which the female ex-convict's husband ( played by the ever-reliable H . B . Warner ) bids farewell to their daughter and her soon-to-be husband without letting them in on the fact that the woman has committed suicide and that he intends to join her soon after ; the hysterical tirade at the end by the daughter when she finally confronts the men who have destroyed her life , a brave tour-de-force moment for Marian Marsh ( familiar to horror aficionados from SVENGALI [ 1931 ] , THE MAD GENIUS [ 1931 ] and THE BLACK ROOM [ 1935 ] ) who had so far only rather blandly served the romantic interest of the plot ; the final shot of the picture , with the latest issue of " The Gazette " being swept into the gutter by street-cleaners along with the rest of the garbage , thus leaving no doubt whatsoever as to where the film-makers ' true sentiments lay .
CARRY ON TEACHER ( Gerald Thomas , 1959 )	This one seems to me to be an underrated " Carry On " film – which , again , the series website mini-review puts down by labeling it atypical ( the school setting making CARRY ON TEACHER feel more like an unofficial entry in the contemporaneous " St . Trinian’s " franchise , which I’m only vaguely familiar with and has actually just been revived ) ! While there are some flat spots on occasion , and a few of the gags are extended to their ultimate detriment , the film is generally hilarious ( with a fair share of side-splitting moments ) ; besides , the series’ notorious lewdness – mainly evident in the previous entry , CARRY ON NURSE ( 1959 ) , during its closing moment – is inescapable here , given that Joan Sims’ physical education teacher has been suggestively named Allcock ( which Leslie Philips’ character keeps harping on , having fallen for her at first-sight ) ! Several of the actors from NURSE return here : these include unacknowledged series performers such as the afore-mentioned Philips ( again , incarnating the playboy type but who also happens to be a child psychologist ! ) , Rosalind Knight ( her small role as the studious nurse has been amplified here to the similarly workaholic school auditor – though she’s made to share a hesitant romance with Kenneth Connor , playing the nuclear scientist this time around but relentlessly flubbing his lines in anxiety ) and Cyril Chamberlain ( the delusional patient of CARRY ON NURSE is now the school janitor ) . Kenneth Williams , then , is the English Literature teacher ( he’s been assigned to stage " Romeo & Juliet " for the annual prize-day – the students , however , are disappointed that the text has been significantly ‘cleaned-up’ ! ) ; Charles Hawtrey is the music instructor ( who is also to provide accompaniment for the play – the constant bickering between both teachers over whether predominance should be given to Shakespeare’s words or the dramatic emphasis allowed by the score is one of the film’s mainstays , with Williams questioning Hawtrey’s very talent by comparing the latter’s work to a dirge . . . and , sure enough , that’s what his eventual ‘incidental music’ sounds like on the day of the performance ! ) ; corpulent Hattie Jacques is once again the indomitable female type , playing the maths professor . Ted Ray – whom I’d never heard of , but is supposedly a comedy institution in Britain – is the long-suffering acting headmaster . He’s against punishing students , though he’s almost driven to it after the children turn the school – the address , by the way , is on Maudlin Street ! – upside down during the inspectors’ one-week stay . . . except that this transpires to be a deliberate scheme on their part to quash Ray’s chance at a position in another college , because they don’t want him to leave ! ! The latter element actually leads to an uncharacteristic , sentimental GOODBYE , MR . CHIPS-style ending . Among the highlights are Connor’s hand-made rocket going through the roof during science class , Hawtrey falling through the floor of a room , Sims’ judo attack on the persistent Philips , the students’ various pranks on their instructors ( such as having the tea spiked with alcohol , spreading itching powder in the teachers’ room , or faking a bomb plant ) , and the disastrous climactic performance of " Romeo & Juliet " . P . S . Incidentally , a British comic who excelled in playing schoolmasters was Will Way – and in one of these , THE GOOSE STEPS OUT ( 1942 ) , Charles Hawtrey himself was featured as a student !
The Angels Among Us ( J . M . Kenny , 2003 ) ( V )	This 43-minute featurette details the unusual production of Wim Wenders ' acclaimed WINGS OF DESIRE ( 1987 ) . I own the Anchor Bay UK R2 DVD , but it's missing this documentary found on MGM's R1 edition ( which I rented so that I could check it out ) . The director ( whom I saw at a Press Conference during the 2004 Venice Film Festival for his latest work , LAND OF PLENTY ) remembers that , after having lived in the U . S . for 8 years , he wanted to make a renewed acquaintance with Berlin ( his favorite city ) through a film . He wasn't quite sure how to go about it , so he approached his frequent screen writing collaborator Peter Handke - who came up with a number of introspective , even poetic monologues but no definite storyline . At one point , Wenders hit upon the idea of having guardian angels for his lead characters and immediately thought of actors Bruno Ganz and Otto Sander for the roles ; Damiel ( played by Ganz ) eventually wishes to become human , having fallen in love with trapeze artiste Solveig Dommartin ( then Wenders ' girlfriend , she passed away recently ! ) . Eventually , they started shooting without a proper script - but felt that something crucial was still missing : a sense of humor ; this was ultimately supplied by American star Peter Falk ( in what he himself deemed the most unusual role he ever played , as an ex-angel who advices Damiel in his new ' life ' ) . While I'm sure that Wenders ' Audio Commentary ( included on both DVDs ) - and which I listened to back when I watched the film - touches upon most of the points discussed in the documentary , the latter does provide the opportunity for the other major contributors to have their say : Handke , composer Jurgen Knieper ( who , again , had to resort to improvisation ) , Ganz , Sander , even Falk ( who appears to have appreciated the experience ) . They also pay tribute to the film's renowned cinematographer Henri Alekan ( who , at 80 , was coerced out of retirement to lend to the film the same kind of ethereal black-and-white quality he had brought to BEAUTY AND THE BEAST [ 1946 ] , which Wenders considers to be the most beautiful ever shot ! ) and character actor Curt Bois ( who appears in the film and had , some years earlier , been the subject of a documentary co-directed by Ganz and Sander ! ) .
YOUNG AT HEART ( Gordon Douglas , 1954 )	A musicalization of a classic " woman’s picture " is about as unappetizing a prospect as can get for me film-wise , but the polished Hollywood expertise here wins out in the end and makes for a refreshing and appealing movie that I had long underestimated ( it was shown several times on Italian TV but I never bothered with it ) . Doris Day and , especially , Frank Sinatra are well-matched as star-crossed lovers in small-town America ; Day comes from a classically-trained musical family headed by Robert Keith and including Dorothy Malone ( with spinster aunt Ethel Barrymore watching maternally from the sidelines ) . Amiable popular music composer Gig Young bursts in on their quiet , happy family life ( all the girls naturally fall for his charms ) but this is further exacerbated by the belated introduction of his arranger pal , embittered long-time loser Frank Sinatra . The film’s narrative is largely made up of the romantic entanglements of the trio of girls ( two of whom are engaged to local guys but pine for Young ) while Day is longed for by Young but is immediately drawn to outsider Sinatra . Robert Keith is really no match for Claude Rains – who had played the father in Michael Curtiz’s original FOUR DAUGHTERS ( 1938 ) – but Sinatra does manage to make John Garfield’s star-making , Oscar-nominated turn his own . Curiously enough , the screenwriters of YOUNG AT HEART – Julius J . Epstein and Lenore Coffee – were the very same duo who had earlier adapted FOUR DAUGHTERS to the screen ; however , as is already apparent , the original movie had four daughters instead of three , the character names were also altered and the remake was even given a schmaltzy , happy ending ! Naturally , both Day and Sinatra get to sing in the film but they only have a modest duo of sorts at the very end ; incidentally , I was let down by the finale not just because of its improbable " all’s well that ends well " qualities but also because , after Sinatra is seen toiling at his magnum opus throughout the whole movie , the result is just a corny love song ! At the very least , I was expecting the classic title tune to be it ( which he does get to sing over the opening credits ) . Incidentally , he seems to have had a good working relationship with director Gordon Douglas – since they would reteam three more times in the next 14 years .
LE BOSSU ( Philippe De Broca , 1997 )	De Broca , who had made the marvelous swashbuckler CARTOUCHE ( 1962 ) , returns to the genre after 35 years with this unexpectedly old-fashioned and highly entertaining romp . Daniel Auteil is the unlikely hero , who is also called on to show his versatility as an actor by dressing up as the titular character . He's supported by a good cast : Vincent Perez as a womanizing aristocrat , Fabrice Luchini as a somewhat reticent villain and Philippe Noiret as a Regent ; lovely Marie Gillain is Auteil's improbable love interest ( she was raised by him after being saved from death's clutches ) . The film's theatrical milieu brings forth obvious comparisons with SCARAMOUCHE ( 1952 ) but the sumptuous décor , Philippe Sarde's rousing score and a plot-packed narrative keep one watching . In fact , it was so well-received at the time of its release as to be nominated for several international film awards ! De Broca is a distinguished French film-maker but , unfortunately , very little of his early work is available for reassessment ; I've only watched 5 myself ( including this one ) and all proved to be well worth watching .
We Still Kill The Old Way ( Elio Petri , 1967 )	Goodish blend of Mafia movie ( still pretty much uncharted territory at the time ) and political thriller , with a hesitant romance thrown in for good measure ; the result is generally absorbing , thanks largely to uniformly excellent performances , gleaming location photography ( Sicily , of course ) and a wonderful score by the ever-reliable Luis Enrique Bacalov . Heading the cast is Gian Maria Volonte ' : the film launched the political / social conscience phase of his career after a stint doing Spaghetti Westerns . His character is that of an intellectual loner who finds himself in over his head when he starts probing into the assassination of two friends ? including philanderer Luigi Pistilli ? which leads to his falling for the other's wife ( Irene Papas ) . Though the identity of the villain ( as ever , an eminent member of the community and far closer to the hero than he envisaged ) comes as no real surprise , the investigation ? involving , among other things , the hushed participation of cleric and senator alike ? and the disquieting revelations that emerge from it , lends the whole a deeply cynical tone ( culminating in the downbeat climax depicting Volonte''s own extreme fate ) while cementing the Mafia's reputation as strictly a ' family business ' . The Italian DVD includes an interesting half-hour featurette detailing the making and reception of the award-winning film ( including the fact that the author of the source novel , Leonardo Sciascia , was dissatisfied with how the script turned out ) ; the interviewees are co-scriptwriter Ugo Pirro , the wife of the late Elio Petri , and composer Bacalov ( who is regretful that , given his felicitous working relationship with the director here , the opportunity never arose for another collaboration ) .
The Black Room ( 1935 )	Another film I had been reading about since childhood but up till now have had no opportunity to watch . An interesting star vehicle for Boris Karloff allowing him to play two roles as contrasting twins ; the fact that one of them is deformed may owe something to Lon Chaney and here Karloff demonstrates himself a most worthy successor to the Master's mantle . The period setting - its-folk-tale quality hearkens back to German Expressionism - serves the handsome production extremely well , especially when considering that Columbia Pictures at the time was just starting to pose a serious challenge ( following the Oscar sweep of Frank Capra's IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT [ 1934 ] ) to the major studios . Director Roy William Neill handles the proceedings with great efficiency and style providing plenty of visual flourishes along the way . The only criticism one can level at the film regards a couple of slightly contrived plot points : the evil Karloff , who has done away with his benign but paralyzed sibling and whom he impersonates in order to win the girl he loves , is rather stupidly caught by the girl's father when he is spotted in a mirror using his ' lame ' hand to sign the marriage contract ; Karloff's come-uppance is brought about by his dead brother's faithful mastiff which hates his guts - it's implausible to think that the dog has kept away from Karloff for days ( by which time the girl's lover has been convicted for her father's murder ) only to conveniently reappear on his wedding day ! However , the ironic climax - which allows the prophecy tied with Karloff's family name to be fulfilled - is a splendid one . All in all , along with THE MASK OF FU MANCHU ( 1932 ) and THE WALKING DEAD ( 1936 ; see below ) , THE BLACK ROOM is Karloff's best vehicle of the 1930s which wasn't produced by the studio which made his name , Universal .
THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT ( Herbert Ross , 1970 )	This is another film I had missed out on a number of times on Cable TV in the past . It's considered something of a censorship milestone with the treatment of taboo subjects such as prostitution , homosexuality and pornography ? not to mention the proliferation of bad language throughout ( unfortunately , the DVD is said to contain the slightly edited PG-rated version , which cuts some brief nudity involving female lead Barbra Streisand and her use of the f-word in one scene ) ! With this in mind , one has to consider the development which the comedy genre underwent during this time : from the mildly risqué sophisticated antics of the Doris Day / Rock Hudson films of the early 1960s to the cynical anxiety-ridden variety that started emanating towards the tail-end of the decade ? with which the likes of Jack Lemmon , George Segal ( the male lead of this film ) and , in particular , Woody Allen ( since he was his own writer and mostly directed himself as well ) are forever associated . THE OWL AND THE PUSSYCAT is also notable for giving the current female singing sensation ? Barbra Streisand ? her first non-musical role ; in fact , it led to other wacky comedy vehicles : foremost among them WHAT'S UP , DOC ? ( 1972 ; Peter Bogdanovich's updating of the Howard Hawks classic BRINGING UP BABY [ 1938 ] ) and FOR PETE'S SAKE ( 1974 ; whose trailer , included on the Columbia R2 DVD of the film under review , makes it seem like a good deal of fun ) . Thanks largely to his role in the film , Segal went on to do his fair share of sex comedies up till the early 1980s ? with the most successful among them being A TOUCH OF CLASS ( 1973 ) , which I should be acquiring shortly . Anyway , to get to the main item : the film can be seen as a modern variation on the perennial " Pygmalion " theme ? with Segal as intellectual but , at the same time , neurotic and Streisand the uncouth yet liberated woman . There's no plot to speak of ? instead , we follow the two stars on a logical pattern of location-hopping around New York throughout which their relationship blossoms : from his apartment when she's evicted because of his snitching ( which leads to both of them being given the gate by the landlord ) , to them shacking up at the flat of Segal's pal ( who drives them out because of their constant bickering ) , then going their separate ways till they meet again ( after he has learned about her movie experience ? a hilarious scene ? and a ' colleague ' of hers has gone to see him at his workplace ) and go out together ( where they're harassed by a band of thrill-seekers ) , after which they find themselves at the house of Segal's fiancée ( a scene with an unexpectedly ironic punchline ) , to finally deciding to be completely honest with one another ( beginning with their real names ) . In this respect , the film emerges to be overly talky ( betraying its stage origins ) but there is a reasonable amount of invention and wit in the undeniable comedy highlights : Segal dressing up as Death to scare the hiccupping Streisand ; Segal using an aquarium as a TV set ? with him delivering an impromptu news flash ? to humor the insomniac Streisand ( her addiction to TV is illustrated by a surprising reference to the Lionel Atwill / Lon Chaney Jr . horror pic MAN MADE MONSTER [ 1941 ] ) ; the couple's argument over " the sun spat morning " line in the opening paragraph of a book by aspiring novelist Segal ; Streisand's account of the sordid activities her clients invariably came up with ( prompting Segal to describe her as " a sexual Disneyland " ) , etc . The film's soundtrack is highlighted by several songs from jazz / rock band Blood , Sweat & Tears .
The Adventures Of Bullwhip Griffin ( James Neilson , 1967 )	This is another fondly remembered Walt Disney live-action effort which I'd never watched : it's an episodic Western spoof set at the time of the California gold rush . The protagonists are an impoverished Bostonian family and their resourceful butler ( an ideally-cast Roddy McDowall ) ; the young son , obsessed with a legendary rugged cowboy figure called " Bullwhip " , is prone to tall tales ? so that he makes up the mild-mannered Griffin to be as brave and experienced as his hero ! This eventually lands them in trouble with both con-man Karl Malden ( who has a lot of fun with his role , which also allows him to don plenty of disguises ) and saloon owner Harry Guardino or , more precisely , his imposing but dumb henchman ( a typecast Mike Mazurki ) ? whom McDowall fells with a lucky punch but which Guardino wants to turn to his advantage by organizing a boxing match between the two ! The bout is delayed until the climax : in between , our heroes have several adventures as they make and lose a fortune in gold ( following a map possessed by Richard Haydn who's constantly flaunting his theatrical background ) , with the wily Malden never too far off their trail . Suzanne Pleshette provides feminine interest and eye candy , though she doesn't quite cut it as a saloon chanteuse . The film is a generous 110 minutes long ( compounded by those relentless Sherman Brothers songs ) but it's never less than enjoyable , with pleasant color photography and a barrage of technical gags ( not just the animated titles but such oft-used devices as the subject of a portrait changing his expression , angels sounding their trumpets when someone is knocked-out , etc ) .
THE PYX ( Harvey Hart , 1973 )	I first heard of this one via Leonard Maltin’s Film Guide – where it’s rated a staggering ; the reviewer goes on to claim that it was " ignored " in the U . S . ( the film is a Canadian production ) , which explains its obscurity : it didn’t help matter that two other films bearing similar odd-sounding titles , namely THE PHYNX ( 1970 ) and THE ASPHYX ( 1972 ) , had just been released ! However , I agree with his assessment that this is a title worthy of far greater attention than it seems to have garnered over the years – a fact which is sadly borne out by the truly dire condition it’s been made available in so far ( scratchy , fuzzy , washed-out colors , muffled soundtrack and , to add insult to injury , a faux Widescreen look i . e . masking the top and bottom off an obviously panned-and-scanned print ! ) . Anyway , the film itself is an occult thriller which sees cop Christopher Plummer investigating the mysterious death of hooker Karen Black ( it was even renamed THE HOOKER CULT MURDERS ) : he’s especially confused by a couple of objects ( in view of their religious / satanic significance ) she was carrying on her person at the time – a necklace with an upside-down cross , and a pyx ( the small round container in which the consecrated host is carried when a priest holds communion off church grounds ) . Seamlessly running parallel to this plot line is another detailing the events leading up to Black’s demise ; this intriguing jumping - back - and - forth - in - time device ( borrowed from either version of THE KILLERS [ ] ) certainly gave the film an identity among the mass of contemporary thriller / horror fare – and such intermittent development also greatly accentuates the suspense inherent in either situation ( since one character is oblivious of her fate while the other unaware of what his probing will eventually unearth ) . Still , the intelligent script is careful not to trip in its own cleverness – given that the audience is able to put all the pieces together well before the hero does ( the former having had direct access , so to speak , to Black’s past experiences ) – and manages , in fact , to come up with one final unexpected revelation that’s quite a knock-out ( recalling that other cult thriller with a strong spiritual element to its essential Good-vs-Evil angle , THE WICKER MAN [ 1973 ] , but also an amusingly heretical episode in Luis Bunuel’s delicious masterpiece THE DISCREET CHARM OF THE BOURGOUISE [ 1972 ] ) ! With this in mind , the fragmentary style is clearly reminiscent of yet another contemporary classic – DON’T LOOK NOW ( 1973 ) – while the police investigation snowballing into violence ( one particularly nasty instance of which being directed towards a character’s black feline ! ) and ending up by implicating the baffled hero looks forward to the equally underrated GOD TOLD ME TO ( 1976 ) . The film is made all the more believable and compelling thanks to some excellent performances : Plummer is fine as ever , but Black has one of her best-ever roles ( and even get a chance here to showcase her secondary talent as a singer / songwriter ! ) ; also notable is Yvette Brind’ Amour as Black’s tough landlady / pimp . Having mentioned the songs – which , endowing proceedings with the tenderness and fragility inherent in Black’s character , give the whole an undeniably haunting quality – one can’t refrain from mentioning the eerily slowed-down or speeded-up music heard during the climactic Black Mass ( a sequence which is rendered even more creepy by having some of the participants decked-out in animal masks ! ) . Finally , other films from director Hart I’d be interested in watching are the William Inge adaptation BUS RILEY’S BACK IN TOWN ( 1965 ) , DARK INTRUDER ( 1965 ) – another little-known but well-regarded occult thriller – and SHOOT ( 1976 ) , apparently a DELIVERANCE ( 1972 ) wannabe starring Cliff Robertson , Ernest Borgnine and Henry Silva ! Incidentally , the producer of this one – Julian Roffman – had already made his own cult horror effort with the weird 3-D outing THE MASK ( 1961 ) , a low-budget film I’ve been pining for since childhood ( due to stills I’d seen from it in a Sci-Fi tome of my father’s written by the late eminent Philip Strick ) but can’t seem to be able to get a hold of . . .
DIE HARD 4 . 0 ( Len Wiseman , 2007 )	My tolerance for Bruce Willis only extends itself to when he portrays the seemingly indestructible Detective John McClane in the DIE HARD films – a role which , even twenty years from its inception , still fits him like a glove . His charismatic persona goes a long way in making this hopelessly complicated and yet often dumbly illogical blockbuster undeniably entertaining throughout its not ungenerous 130 minute running time ; needless to say , the spectacular action set-pieces are practically innumerable , with each one taking pains to outdo its predecessor in grandness and incredulity . I can’t hope to make head or tails of the plot for those of you who haven’t seen it yet : suffice it to say , it’s predictably tinged with post - paranoia in the villains’ bid to put America on its bended knees through the wizardry of a network of geeky cyber-hackers . . . or something . I have to laugh when in the 1960s , many Cold War espionage pictures were dismissed as incomprehensible , because today’s penchant for hi-tech hijinks and unspeakably technical verbosity in even the most unassuming of thrillers shows a total lack of audience-friendliness . Another puzzling trait in contemporary Hollywood movies for me is the fact that anonymous ( often impossibly young ) villains are chosen to face off against the formidable hero of the day which rather makes one wonder why it took the latter two-and-a-half hours and so many near death experiences to get rid of this unfailingly sore loser ; this is certainly the case here since the main villain is played by an unknown actor , his character was fired by the U . S . government when his plans were deemed too ambitious for them and , worse still , is effortlessly upstaged by his female co-conspirator / lover Maggie Q ( who eventually meets her demise in one of the film’s lengthiest and most impressive action sequences ) . Interestingly enough , Willis himself is flanked by a computer freak but his wimpering , stuttering schtick outstays its welcome ; writer-director-actor Kevin Smith has a pleasant cameo as the hacker guru dubbing himself " Warlock " . Although one is expected to suspend his disbelief in films of this kind , there were a couple of stupid plot-holes the size of Manhattan which bugged me no end : if the villain was a top official in the U . S . Security defense program , clearly bears a grudge against them for humiliating him and is actually enacting the very threat he proposed back then in the first place , why do the F . B . I . need John McClane to alert them to his identity ? Besides , if the villain is so technologically adept that he creates ultra-sensitive security programs for the U . S . government , how come he needs a whole barrage of computer geeks to put his plan into action ( which , naturally , also necessitates an assortment of armed-to-their-teeth henchmen to eliminate them once they’ve completed their assignment ? ) .
RIO LOBO ( Howard Hawks , 1970 )	While hardly the most auspicious of swan songs , Hawks’ underrated final film sees a reprise of some of his favorite themes – including the siege / hostage exchange situation from RIO BRAVO ( 1959 ) , a Western he had already partially remade as EL DORADO ( 1966 ) ; incidentally , John Wayne starred in all three titles . It opens with an elaborate gold shipment robbery from a moving train by Confederate soldiers ; Wayne is a Unionist Colonel who goes after the culprits but , the war over , befriends ‘enemies’ Jorge Rivero and Chris Mitchum when they reveal the identity of a couple of Yankee traitors – one is a deputy sheriff and the other an unscrupulous landowner ( Victor French ) . The film shares its partnership - between - Union - and - Confederate - soldiers angle with Wayne’s earlier Western THE UNDEFEATED ( 1969 ) – but , Hawks being Hawks , it’s presented here in a far more complex ( and rewarding ) manner . As is usual for the director , a spirited female protagonist is thrown into the fray – in this case , Jennifer O’Neill as a traveling-show performer who falls foul of French and his dastardly sheriff ( Mike Henry ) ; of course , she becomes romantically involved with Rivero – a situation Wayne observes with bemusement . Jack Elam is a delight as Mitchum’s trigger-happy coot of a foster parent , making him an ideal replacement for the Walter Brennan of RIO BRAVO . The film also features an unusually wistful score for a genre effort courtesy of Jerry Goldsmith . All things considered , however , RIO LOBO still emerges as the least of the loose Wayne / Hawks Western trilogy : this is chiefly due to severe undercasting when compared to the earlier efforts – with , say , Rivero being no match for James Caan from EL DORADO . Though a lot of exposition is necessary for the various plot threads to fall into place , the film ( co-scripted by Hawks regular Leigh Brackett ) provides plenty of action throughout its almost 2-hour length . The climax is exciting and well-staged , and includes the revenge on Henry by a young girl he has viciously scarred for life ( played by Sherry Lansing , future head of the Fox and Paramount studios and currently Mrs . William Friedkin ) – which , however , calls for O’Neill to be virtually absent from these final stages and the film to end abruptly ( albeit on a running joke involving Wayne ) ! Unfortunately , too , the DivX copy I watched proved rather hazy and suffered from occasional compression artifacts .
THE SORROWS OF Satan ( D . W . Griffith , 1926 )	I was expecting this to be longer ( it ran for just 90 minutes ) since most sources cite it as being close to the 2 hour-mark . . . although one never really knows with Silent films given the variety of projection speeds involved ! Anyway , it's a rare ' horror ' film for Griffith and one that , reportedly , he did against his will . . . in fact , it was originally intended for Cecil B . DeMille ! As it happens , it's pictorially sumptuous but , typically of Griffith , rather static ; for having been a pioneer of cinema , his occasional reluctance to move the camera is both strange and regrettable ( some of the close-ups of his leading lady here seem interminable ) . The Faustian plot is reasonably compelling if predictable and the acting plaudits effortlessly go to Adolphe Menjou who brings his customary sartorial elegance to the titular character ; on the other hand , Carol Dempster is nowhere near as expressive as Lillian Gish had been in Griffith's earlier films . Even so , the director seemed far more at home during her melodramatic scenes than in depicting the sophistication of the high-life hero Ricardo Cortez breaks into , and even less so with its essential supernatural elements ! While individual scenes deliver the goods ( the fantastic opening sequence set in Heaven showing the banishment of Lucifer and his minions , Menjou's initial materialization in Cortez's apartment and the finale when he reverts back to his true form to menace Cortez - wisely shown only as a huge bat-like shadow ) , the film really needed a European sensibility to do it full justice rather than the hand of a Victorian romantic who was past his prime anyway ! Still , it's very much a worthwhile if essentially patchy enterprise and I would certainly love to catch up with the director's other ' horror ' work eventually - THE AVENGING CONSCIENCE ( 1914 ) and ONE EXCITING NIGHT ( 1922 ) .
Dracula ( 1931 ) - US Version ; Spanish Version	The Browning / Lugosi ' classic ' has always been one of my favorite Universal horror films but , ever since the simultaneously-produced ' rival ' Spanish version resurfaced , the ' original ' has taken a beating by fans and historians alike - mainly because the latter features superior camera-work ! This , however , is the ONLY area where it can lay a claim to be better in when compared to the US version ( the fact that leading lady Lupita Tovar had a sexier wardrobe than Helen Chandler shouldn't even be considered , I guess ) . Still , the fact that on the DVD the opinion that the seminal US version is the inferior one seems to be shared by quite a few people hasn't done it any favors ! I remember being impressed by the Spanish version when I first watched it in 2001 , singling out for praise the performance of Pablo Alvarez Rubio as Renfield and , of course , George Robinson's cinematography . However , coming back to it now , I felt that Rubio's hysterical rendering of the character ( which reminded me of Gene Wilder in YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN [ 1974 ] of all people ! ) was nowhere nearly as nuanced as Dwight Frye's unforgettable characterization in the US version . Regarding the " superior camera-work " , I guess this is true for individual sequences ( Dracula's introduction , for instance ) but , frankly , I never felt that Karl Freund - a pioneer of the moving camera - had somehow been restrained by Tod Browning , who admittedly wasn't very fond of this technique . Given that of late we've also been faced by the ridiculous assumption that Browning didn't actually direct the film , he couldn't have - since he wasn't even there ! ! It may be however , that since frequent Browning collaborator Lon Chaney ( who had been slated for the title role ) died before shooting began , the director sort of lost heart in the project - coupled also with the fact that the script was rather talky , another element with which Browning felt uneasy ! Well , whatever went on behind the scenes , for me what's in front remains one of the highlights of the American horror film - from the marvelous dialogue ( especially as delivered - each in their own unique way - by Lugosi , Frye and Edward Van Sloan ) , irreproachable performances ( Frye and Van Sloan were at their best , while Lugosi only ever really came close with THE BLACK CAT [ 1934 ] and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN [ 1939 ] ) and memorable individual scenes ( the entire first act set in Transylvania , the confrontation scenes between Dracula and his nemesis Professor Van Helsing , Renfield's various ravings ) . The tame ending may appear anti-climactic to most people but I honestly was never bothered by it ! If anything , this was remedied in any number of ways in subsequent outings . . . Which brings us back to the Spanish Dracula : like I said , the film is an interesting and altogether pleasing ' alternate ' to the Lugosi version . . . but it is fatally compromised by the inadequate leading performance of Carlos Villarias , whose bulging eyes and feral snarls can't hold a candle to Lugosi's definitive screen vampire ! This version does go to places where the American doesn't ( Browning shies away from the vampire attacks , for instance ) and even features ' new ' scenes like the aftermath of the vampiric Lucy's demise - but , at 104 minutes ( a full half-hour longer than the US version , when considering that they were following the same script ! ) it's way overlong for its own good . The Browning / Lugosi version is often criticized for its sluggishness but this one actually moves at a snail's pace : take , for instance , the famous scene where Dracula is exposed by the mirror - Lugosi knocks the box down immediately , while Villarias takes forever to do so ( even if his resolution is effectively flamboyant nonetheless ) . A word about the DVD quality : disappointingly , the Spanish version features closed-captions ( for the hearing-impaired ) rather than proper subtitles . As for the US version , the print utilized for this particular transfer ( which differs from that of the original , and more satisfactory , 1999 release ) is a bit too dark for my taste and the dialogue sometimes was hard to catch due to the incessant hiss on the soundtrack ! It also reverts to the ' original ' single groan during Dracula's staking ( instead of the elongated variant available on the earlier disc ) . . . but does feature a bit of music at the end of the Opera sequence , which had been missing from the previous edition ! ! Well , this only means that it's worth keeping both copies of Dracula as neither is really definitive . . .
GRANDMA'S BOY ( Fred Newmeyer , 1922 )	Harold Lloyd's first great feature pits him in his ideal homespun setting with a simple and archetypal plot in which the mild-mannered Boy gradually learns to overcome his cowardice - with the help of his loving grandmother - to become the toast of the town ; in this respect , it predates the star's more celebrated THE FRESHMAN ( 1925 ) in being , above all , character-driven ( with a dash of sentimentality ) . That said , perhaps the film's most hilarious scene is a typical one in which both Lloyd and his rival for the affections of leading lady Mildred Davis unwittingly mistake moth-balls from Lloyd's ancient costume ( which had belonged to his grandfather ) for sweets . It's climaxed , however , by three lengthy and impressive set-pieces : the Civil War feat of the hero's grandfather ( also played by Lloyd and remarkably anticipating Keaton's THE GENERAL [ 1927 ] ) ; the chase leading up to the capture of the town bully by the newly-brave Lloyd ( brought about by the presence of a Zuni doll - more than 50 years before such an artifact would achieve immortality via the classic made-for-TV compendium TRILOGY OF TERROR [ 1975 ] ! ) ; and our hero's settling of accounts with his mean-spirited rival , which features some rather physical tussling for this kind of film . As ever with Lloyd , apart from providing the requisite attention to gag structure and the creation of atmosphere , the film results in being quite technically proficient .
The Student Of Prague ( 1926 )	This is a more elaborate , lavish and altogether satisfactory version of the above , with Conrad Veidt perfectly cast in the lead and with Werner Krauss also making for a menacing Scapinelli . The expressionistic elements are well in evidence here ( director Henrik Galeen had written Murnau's NOSFERATU [ 1922 ] and , stylistically , the film does bear some resemblance to it ) : while not quite reaching the heights of , say , THE CABINET OF DR . CALIGARI ( 1919 ) and NOSFERATU itself , it's very much deserving of the reputation it enjoys in the horror film genre and , despite the shoddy print quality of the Alpha DVD , replete with missing frames ( where are Kino when you need them ? ) , I'm truly glad I was given an opportunity to watch this elusive classic from the Silent era after having read so much about it since childhood ! Let's hope now that another highly-regarded ( and much-filmed ) Conrad Veidt vehicle , THE HANDS OF ORLAC ( 1925 ) , also gets a DVD release soon . . .
SSSSSSS ( Bernard L . Kowalski , 1973 )	Well , talk of an omen ! In my review of BUG ( 1975 ) , I had written that I didn't have the courage to watch this title because of my fear of snakes ; a mere 2 days later , I learned of its director's recent passing ? so , I said to myself , slimy critters be damned ? now's the time to check out this bugger ! ! From Kowalski's work , I was familiar with the cheap sci-fi / horror ATTACK OF THE GIANT LEECHES ( 1959 ) and the adventure disaster about a volcanic eruption KRAKATOA , EAST OF JAVA ( 1969 ) ? hardly notable fare , I know , but Leonard Maltin did award SSSSSSS a respectable ? which I found to be well-deserved ! The film ? produced by Richard D . Zanuck and David Brown , who subsequently scored a big hit for Universal with JAWS ( 1975 ) ? is really a slick update of his previous genre work , and possibly the loopiest concept yet conceived within the resurrected " Nature Gone Wild " cycle . That said , it's quite reminiscent of both THE ALLIGATOR PEOPLE ( 1959 ) and Hammer Films ' THE REPTILE ( 1966 ) ? while Jack Cardiff's THE MUTATIONS aka THE FREAKMAKER ( 1974 ; which I've yet to watch despite being available as a SE DVD ) , in which Donald Pleasence transforms people into plants , seems to be at least as nonsensical ! Well , as it turned out , there's sure plenty of snake footage here ? but it only became genuinely skin-crawling when filmed in close-up . Besides , I never thought I'd say this but I actually came to like Strother Martin's pet snake Harry ( with its fragile squeak , as opposed to the reptile's typical aggressive hiss , and penchant for alcohol ? " Look sober , Harry ! " , advises Martin as disapproving daughter Heather Menzies arrives home ) and felt sorry when it was killed . What I especially enjoyed about the script ( which maintains a reasonable balance between educational overview on the common misconceptions relating to the subject matter and providing the vicarious thrills dictated by its B-movie roots ) are the little , almost casual moments which eventually pay off in a big way . These include : the opening scene involving a mysterious container , and the later revelation of its carrier as a carnival-show proprietor ; the lecture given by the Professor about the subtle difference between two particular species of snake , and the quandary he finds himself in when a prisoner in Martin's basement ; the isolation of a sick python , which eventually gets the better of the afore-mentioned Professor ; Dirk Benedict drawing Heather Menzies ' attention to the carnival Snake Boy's blue eyes ( remarked upon again by a postal worker from town ) , which alerts her to the fate of Martin's former assistant ; Benedict's contention over Menzies ' grief at her favorite pet's demise ? " Harry was just a snake ! " ? which , of course , takes new and ironic meaning when he starts turning into one himself ; also , Martin's taking a rather unwise condescending attitude towards the cobra throughout ? which , inevitably , sets up his painful come-uppance at the end . Martin is brilliantly cast : benign-looking yet utterly chilling when he's spouting the requisite mad doctor credo ( by quoting the passage by Walt Whitman which also found its way in the contemporaneous THE WICKER MAN [ 1973 ] ? though , in its case , available only in the " Extended Version " ) . Well , I have to hand it to all the actors here in showing this much commitment to their craft : it takes guts to act ? and , with respect to Martin , sustain the necessary concentration to deliver quality work ? around a plethora of deadly snakes ( reportedly , Martin got bit for his troubles ) ! Incidentally , the actor showed a surprising branching-out into horror roles during this period ? THE BROTHERHOOD OF Satan ( 1971 ; which I own on DVD and is an even superior effort ) came prior to SSSSSSS , while NIGHTWING ( 1979 ; with which I'm unfamiliar , but it doesn't seem to be readily available for appraisal ) followed later on in the decade . Benedict is pretty bland at first , but his emotional breakdown ? as the snake genes begin to take over his body ? is reasonably convincing ; true , it's kind of dumb of him to take so long to realize just what's really going on with his frequent inoculations ? but , then , who could have truthfully conceived of Martin's demented plan ? ! Curiously enough , a later role for the actor ? in the episode THE MARK OF THE DEVIL from the TV series HAMMER HOUSE OF MYSTERY AND SUSPENSE ( 1984 ) ? also saw him devastated by an unexpected physical change . The subplot in the film involving Benedict's bullying by a brash and strapping fellow student ( the University's champion football player ) is dispensable as such , but the nature of his demise leads to a welcome element of black comedy ? when his over-sexed girlfriend reports to the police that she may have been responsible for his fatal heart attack ! Menzies is a likable female lead , and would eventually appear in another well-regarded genre effort ? PIRANHA ( 1978 ) . However , she's also involved in a nude bathing scene with Benedict which is so contrived and chaste as to be quite redundant ( though the script does manage to squeeze in a joke here at the expense of her character's myopia ) . The film , then , concludes abruptly on a freeze-frame of her screaming as she witnesses Benedict-as-cobra fighting a mongoose . John Chambers ' make-up is remarkably effective in detailing the various stages of Benedict's ' affliction ' ( as well as the botched Snake Boy ) ; however , it was disappointing that the metamorphosis from man into snake is so complete ( the finalization process itself was pretty silly ) ? to the point where one can't tell the two cobras apart ! It's unclear whether the character was subsequently intended to revert back into human form , as was the case with THE REPTILE ? where the monster was actually a hybrid . Equally notable here is a very good , unsettling score by Pat Williams .
PRIVATE VICES AND PUBLIC VIRTUES ( Miklos Jancso ' , 1976 )	A single still of naked revelers taken from this film , which I found in one of my father’s old magazines , had long intrigued me and , having been recently bowled over by Jancso'’s THE ROUND UP ( 1965 ) , I leapt at the chance of acquiring the utterly barebones Italian DVD edition of it ( despite knowing nothing of the quality of the disc itself ) . Actually , being an Italian production after all , I had wrongly assumed that ( as was the case with the director’s other three films shot over there ) it would eventually be shown at some point on late night Italian TV ; however , in hindsight , its total invisibility for all these years isn’t that surprising . In fact , if I were pressed to pigeon-hole the movie , I’d say that had Walerian Borowczyk ever directed a screenplay co-written by Federico Fellini and Pier Paolo Pasolini , the end result might well have looked something like this . Ever since debuting at Cannes , the film has provoked either outrage or outright dismissals as " pornography with pretensions " ; amusingly , in his enjoyable " Stracult " tome , Italian critic Marco Giusti proudly admits to having watched it several times on first release despite its having been confiscated twice by the prudish authorities ! Typically for Jancso ' , there is very little to relate plot-wise : as a matter of fact , this can be seen as simply an erotic fantasia on the infamous Mayerling affair in which the heir to the Austro-Hungarian empire , the Archduke Rudolph , carried out a suicide pact with his mistress . According to Jansco ' and his regular Italian screenwriter Giovanna Gagliardo , however , the events were not so clear-cut . Although the film never strays from the Prince’s country estate , Jancso'’s realization of 19th Century Vienna is as visually sumptuous and technically elaborate as expected while the political subtexts as they relate to our modern age are equally important . Although this is the first film I’ve watched myself which dealt with this particular historical incident ( there have been countless others over the years , with Anatole Litvak’s 1936 , Max Ophuls’ 1940 and Terence Young’s 1968 versions being the best-known ) , it’s safe to assume that PRIVATE VICES AND PUBLIC VIRTUES is unlike any of them . For starters , most of the film’s running time is devoted to a marathon orgy to which the Archduke invites the younger generation of Austrian aristocrats to spite his father Emperor Franz-Joseph ( a mask of whom is donned by several of the revelers ) . Apparently , a coup to overthrow the monarch had already failed and , consequently , the Archduke retired to his Mayerling estate to live a life of hedonistic abandon . Knowing full well that his family disapproved of his scandalous behavior , he further intends to shock the establishment by photographing the guests in flagrante and sending a copy out to his peers , thus exposing the veiled degeneracy of the ruling class . Ultimately , however , court officials present themselves at the gates of Mayerling to put a stop to the bacchanalian excesses . . . The three main protagonists of the film are the Archduke , his stepbrother and stepsister who , forming an inseparable and incestuous ménage-a'-trois , are soon joined by an equally libertarian hermaphrodite when a circus troupe stops by the mansion . Having disposed of his boringly proper wife early on , the Archduke falls in love with this newest addition to his inner circle . Left alone after the guests have been dispersed , apprehended or executed ( off-screen ) , the four lovers are ominously shrouded in white sheets like corpses during their final open-air rendezvous : an oppressively melancholy mood makes itself felt towards the end , aided immeasurably by Francesco De Masi’s lovely mournful score . The officials , ostensibly there to put a stop to the offending proceedings and arrest the Archduke , mostly stand around befuddled not knowing how to cope with the extraordinary situation – but their ultimate reaction is swift and abrupt , leading to an inspired slow-motion finale depicting the royal funeral procession . Among the cast list , there were only three names that I recognized : the formidable Laura Betti ( who as the loving nanny performs a handjob on her royal charge laying about in the hay ! ) , Theresa Ann Savoy ( she plays the crucial role of the hermaphrodite here and would later be equally central to Tinto Brass’ infamous CALIGULA [ 1979 ] ) and Ilona Staller ( adopting the evocative stage name of Cicciolina , she later became a highly popular porn star and , later still , an Italian MP – but , ironically , she is here wasted in the thanklessly chaste bit of the Archduke’s wife ! ) . Although there is much full-frontal nudity involved , the only time it really approaches hardcore territory is the afore-mentioned scene with Betti – unless one wants to count the brief instances of bestiality when some of the guests decide to get it on with a few runaway turkeys ! ! Typically for Jancso ' , his characters resort to much communal dancing and game-playing – which is here joined by the improbably effective singing of English childhood ditties ( including " Baa-Baa-Black Sheep " ) ! The sparse original music , then , has been mingled with classical pieces – notably Strauss’ " The Blue Danube " – and , appropriately enough , a handful of military marches . I suppose that , for the uninitiated , all of the above would seem pointlessly perverse and terminally tedious but , stylistically , the film was something of a new departure for Jancso ' : while the intermittently creative editing ( with especially notable use of ellipses ) and his trademark long sequence-shots are still in evidence , he reportedly utilized 343 shots here as opposed to the lowly two digit figures of earlier works . On the downside , the video presentation is a bit dodgy at first : an obviously unrestored print has been utilized for the transfer ( albeit uncut , as proudly announced on the sleeve of the Italian R2 DVD ) but is still acceptable enough for its velvety cinematography and extreme handsomeness to shine nonetheless ; the layer change , however , is quite roughly handled ( at least by the Pioneer model I watched it on ) .
THE SHOUT ( Jerzy Skolimowski , 1978 )	I'm always fascinated by the way a country like Britain is presented in a totally different , almost alien way when ' looked at ' by a foreign film-maker . Skolimowski is an underrated director , and I've generally been impressed by what I've seen from his work ; as a matter of fact , I might be watching three other films of his that I own on VHS - LE DEPART ( 1967 ) , THE ADVENTURES OF GERARD ( 1970 ) and TORRENTS OF SPRING ( 1989 ) . . . The plot of this film ( from a story by Robert Graves ) is compelling and relatively simple but , handled in such a weird fashion ( one might say deliberately ) , it becomes somewhat hard to take ! Still , there's a strong cast on hand : Alan Bates ( who has had perhaps the most interesting , if largely unsung career from the British New Wave's flock of " Angry Young Men " - I followed this with one of his early films , THE CARETAKER [ 1963 ] , via the BFI's R2 SE DVD ) , Susannah York and John Hurt in the lead roles and , in support , Robert Stephens , Tim Curry and an impossibly young - and thin - Jim Broadbent . Bates and Hurt play typical roles - the former eccentric , the latter bewildered - but their rapport , and the one each shares with York , is what holds the film together . There's also an effective electronic score by two members of the then prog-rock band Genesis ( appropriate considering that Hurt plays a musician with a penchant for experimentation with everyday sounds ) ! The scenes involving Bates ' deadly shout are very well handled ; its Aborogine connection links the film with another strange contemporary title , Peter Weir's THE LAST WAVE ( 1977 ) , which I've only watched once but remember liking a lot - so much so that I considered purchasing the Criterion DVD , despite its being one of their lower-tier releases ( then again , THE SHOUT is an absolutely no-frills edition but , at least , it was dirt-cheap ! ) . If there's any complaint I have to make about the DVD , it's the fact that the audio level is rather low and , consequently , the dialogue - part heavy British accents and part Bates ' whispered delivery - is unintelligible at times ( which can become frustrating , given that this is largely a dialogue-driven film ! ) .
BEACH RED ( Cornel Wilde , 1967 )	This one emerges as Cornel Wilde’s second-best directorial effort after THE NAKED PREY ( 1966 ; still bafflingly M . I . A . on DVD ) . It’s an unflinching depiction of warfare – with a surprising amount of gore for the time , punctuated by touches of dark humor – which must have influenced Steven Spielberg’s SAVING PRIVATE RYAN ( 1998 ) , even down to having the first third of it consisting of one seemingly endless battle . The film , however , also anticipates Terrence Malick’s THE THIN RED LINE ( 1998 ) by 30 years in its pre-occupation with the soldiers’ domestic lives ( via multi-character narration and flashbacks ) – but , commendably , takes care to show that of the enemy as well . Plot-wise , it doesn’t really lead anywhere ; then again , that’s probably in order to show the futility of war itself and often resorts to creative i . e . showy , but now dated , Oscar-nominated editing to make its points . There’s also the occasional symbolism – for instance , a crushed beetle standing in for the decimation of untrained U . S . troops at the hands of the wily Japanese ( at one point , disguising themselves en masse in American uniforms ! ) . Featuring a largely anonymous cast , the film tries to be contemporary by focusing on the exploits of two youthful soldiers – their sexual hang-ups and fear of dying . The only familiar names are Wilde himself ( as the platoon leader – appropriately war-weary yet staunchly dedicated to his men ) , Rip Torn ( as his tough-as-nails lieutenant ) and " guest star " Jean Wallace ( Wilde’s real-life spouse playing his on-screen wife as well in a few flashback instances and singing the film’s melancholy title song ) . Torn’s bloodthirsty character personifies the dehumanizing effect of war throughout the film : in the long run , cynicism gets the upper hand – brushing away even a poignant plea for tolerance at the finale !
BEDAZZLED ( Stanley Donen , 1967 )	While I consciously had never bothered with the recent remake , I did miss the original a couple of times in the past on Cable TV ; now that I have finally caught up with it , I'd say it's a curious , with-it updating of the Faustian legend for the Swinging Sixties crowd which , in spite of frequently hitting its various targets , is rather patchy overall , thus rendering its cult status slightly overrated . The three leads ? Dudley Moore ( as the timid cook hero ) , Peter Cook ( as Mr . Spiggott alias The Horned One ) and Eleanor Bron ( Moore's co-worker and object of desire ) ? are very appealing , although the film is perhaps best-remembered today for Raquel Welch's steamy , scene-stealing cameo as one of Spiggott's cohorts , Lilian Lust . Moore's various role-plays ? during the granting of his seven wishes ? are quite amusing , especially the accent he adopts during his intellectual mode and his befuddled countenance while impersonating a cuckolded aristocrat ; at one point , he is even turned into a fly on the wall ! The leaping nuns segment is perhaps the most outrageous one of all but it works surprisingly well , as does Peter Cook's deadpan song recital ( during the black-and-white pop idol sequence ) which is an unexpected highlight ; Mr . Spiggott is also seen intermittently creating mischief towards the general public ? releasing a group of wasps onto some nearby peaceful hippies , removing the bottom from under a woman's shopping bag , ripping the last pages off Agatha Christie mysteries , etc . ) The witty screenplay , written by Peter Cook himself , features several in-jokes : " Julie Andrews " is the magic phrase which transports Moore from one misadventure to the next ; Cook at one point makes a reference to director Stanley Donen's own earlier popular musical , SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS ( 1954 ) ; the name of the character played by Dudley Moore is Stanley Moon ? which is how Sir John Gielgud ( who would later famously co-star with Moore in the ARTHUR movies ) had erroneously referred to Moore in a letter praising a stage performance he had seen him in ! Unfortunately , the subplot involving the ongoing investigation of Moore's supposed suicide / disappearance doesn't really work ( despite the welcome presence of investigating officer Michael Bates ) because there would have been no reason for the police to question Bron for so long since she was only a colleague of Moore's ( and one with which he barely exchanged words to boot ) and not his fiancée ! Dudley Moore also composed the music score which , during the opening credits , is great but the rest of the film merely features variations on the same theme . Although by far the most successful , BEDAZZLED was not the first screen teaming of comic duo Peter Cook and Dudley Moore ( who originally hailed from TV ) : it was preceded by the all-star THE WRONG BOX ( 1966 ; with which I am familiar ) and was followed by MONTE CARLO OR BUST ( 1969 ) , THE BED-SITTING ROOM ( 1969 ; which I have on DivX but have yet to watch ) and the reportedly disastrous THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES ( 1978 ) . Furthermore , Stanley Donen had previously tackled the Faust theme as a Hollywood musical , DAMN YANKEES ( 1958 ) ; having shot the Hitchcock pastiche ARABESQUE ( 1966 ) in England , Donen stayed on the Continent for three more films : the marital comedy-drama TWO FOR THE ROAD ( 1967 ; starring Albert Finney and Audrey Hepburn ) , BEDAZZLED , and his misguided depiction of the gay lifestyle , STAIRCASE ( 1969 ; starring Richard Burton and Rex Harrison ) .
SATANICO PANDEMONIUM ( LA SEXORCISTA ) ( Gilberto Martinez Solares , 1973 )	I haven't watched that many " Nunsploitation " films , but the ones I did were among the more prominent titles from the subgenre - Ken Russell's THE DEVILS ( 1971 ) , Jess Franco's THE DEMONS ( 1972 ) and LOVE LETTERS OF A Portuguese NUN ( 1977 ) , and Juan Lopez Moctezuma's ALUCARDA ( 1975 ) - and this one , though less well-known ( which may be due to the fact that its prolific director had cut his teeth on lowbrow commercial stuff , including several " Santo " movies ! ) , is just as good . Hilariously , the production company which made it is called Hollywood Films and finance was provided by the " Promocion Turistica Mexicana " ( what were they thinking ? ) ! Despite the obvious low-budget , the quality of the cinematography ( including its color scheme and the moody lighting ) is very adequate - if not exactly smooth ! The score , too , is notable in its schizophrenia : lively pop and electronic sounds ( as in the rather silly orgy at the end , in which some of the bawdy nuns were actually played by prostitutes hired expressly for this one scene ! ) alternating with pastoral / lyrical sections and the occasional reverent passage inside the convent . The film , unfortunately , badly lacks pace and several shots run longer than is necessary - apart from it being somewhat repetitive ( particularly during the possessed nun's sex-and-death rampage and her subsequent attempts to cover her tracks , which scenes may have influenced the first half of THE ANTICHRIST [ 1974 ] ; SATANICO PANDEMONIUM itself was partly inspired by Matthew Lewis ' celebrated novel THE MONK - which Luis Bunuel , friend of the director and my personal favorite film-maker , adapted for the screen { but didn't direct } around this same time . . . and which I managed to catch while in Hollywood early last January ! ) It is , however , galvanized by an exceptional leading performance from the statuesque ( and Keira Knightley look-alike ! ) Cecilia Pezet . Unsurprisingly , the film faced censorship problems with its seduction ( and later sex ) scenes involving a nun and an under-aged shepherd boy ! ; his subsequent murder at her hands , however , is extremely unconvincing . Like ALUCARDA , the film doesn't dwell on period reconstruction ( and , in fact , we only realize when the story actually takes place via a reference towards the end to the Inquisition ) ; still , a few social / racial issues are raised nonetheless with the presence of the two black nuns / maids , who are mistreated even by their white ' colleagues ' ! One of its most interesting - and audacious - concepts is the way the film subverts its own intentions by pasting four endings to the narrative back-to-back : a ) the girl renounces her sins and is about to allow herself to be captured by her fellow nuns ; b ) the Devil ( campily coiffured and given to elementary conjuring tricks , but aptly incarnated by the handsome Enrique Rocha - who , at one point , even manifests himself to Pezet in the guise of a lesbian nun ! ) re-appearing to offer her the post of Mother Superior at the convent ( the girl having conveniently murdered the current one ) , whereupon she discovers that her colleagues have been possessed as well , though they still end up killing her ! ; c ) the whole story is revealed to have been merely the delusional fantasy of the main character , under shadow of death from the plague ! ! ; and d ) the devil is , however , seen to be all too real and has already set his sights on a new ' victim ' at the convent .
Cinderella Man ( 2005 )	A pretty good and surprisingly compelling biopic which , apart from obviously emphasizing the traditional elements of a boxing drama for commercial purposes , tries to faithfully portray its background of 1930s Depression America ; this it does in meticulous detail but also excessive sentimentality , I think . Besides , the ' modern ' ( i . e . mannered ) performances of its stars and the occasionally over-emphatic direction rather serve to detach oneself from that particular environment ? which is not at all what the director intended ! Still , the film's trump card remains its technically proficient and tremendously exciting boxing sequences ( particularly the smooth transition from one fight to the next and the lengthy final bout between Braddock and Max Baer , though the latter is rather lazily presented as a one-dimensional villain in order to put the audience , no pun intended , firmly in Braddock's corner ) .
CALTIKI , THE IMMORTAL MONSTER ( Riccardo Freda and , uncredited , Mario Bava , 1959 )	This Italian sci-fi / horror film has been mentioned so often ever since I've been browsing the Internet ( and prior to that on the occasional reference book ) that it had practically acquired legendary status ! Now that I've watched it myself , I can say that it's an effective blend of THE QUATERMASS XPERIMENT ( 1955 ) and Mexi-Horror ? though it's not as intellectual as the former , nor as campy as the latter ( on the accompanying Audio Commentary , Luigi Cozzi also mentions the Japanese sci-fi THE H-MAN [ 1958 ] as a possible influence ) ; the climax , then , seems to have been inspired by QUATERMASS II ( 1957 ) ? while the archaeologists ' discovery of footage shot by their missing / deranged companions actually looks forward to CANNIBAL HOLOCAUST ( 1979 ) . For its miniscule budget ( which shows in the distinct lack of extras during a conference held to announce to the world the historic find ! ) , the film's look ( Rome standing in for Mexico ! ) and make-up effects ( quite repulsive for the time , with the monster scenes themselves being perhaps more extensive than contemporary genre efforts ) are very convincing ; the attack by the blob-like monster on lead John Merivale's house ( with his wife and daughter trapped inside ) is especially well done ? and reasonably scary . The cast ? also featuring Gerard Herter ( an unsympathetic variant on THE QUATERMASS XPERIMENT's Richard Wordsworth ) , Daniela Rocca and Arturo Dominici ? is interesting as well and there's a fine , suitably rousing score by Roberto Nicolosi . The DVD supplements are superb ( I'm lucky to be fluent in Italian ) and include two separate interviews featuring genre exponent Luigi Cozzi ? who attempts , firstly , to restore to its proper place screenwriter / designer Filippo Sanjust's undervalued contribution to the film and , then , outlines Bava's exact function behind-the-scenes ( he didn't actually direct any of it but , following Freda's departure , took charge during the editing stage ) ? and critic / historian Steve Della Casa ? who talks about Freda's place in the history of Italian cinema and mentions an especially amusing anecdote involving Freda and another cult film-maker , Vittorio Cottafavi , on meeting one another in their old age at a Film Festival ( each thought the other would look down on his work only to discover that they were secret admirers of one another ! ) . It's a pity , therefore , that film buffs unfamiliar with the language can't enjoy the Audio Commentary either , as it's a truly fascinating discussion : among other things , critic Giona A . Nazzaro voices his regret over the lost art of Italy's genre cinema ; there's also an interesting sideline into the unusually creative contribution of editors to Italian films during this era , among whom Mario Serandrei ( responsible for CALTIKI itself ) was one of the undisputed masters ; Cozzi , however , mistakenly refers to John Merivale as having played Sherlock Holmes in A STUDY IN TERROR ( 1965 ) , when it was actually John Neville ( Merivale didn't in fact appear in that film ! ) . Finally , since Image's DVD of an earlier Freda / Bava collaboration ? I VAMPIRI ( 1956 ) ? hasn't gone out-of-print and , so , will probably not be part of Anchor Bay's upcoming Mario Bava releases , I may well spring for it in the near future along with THE GHOST ( 1963 ) , an unwatched classic Freda that's been coupled with a German Krimi ? DEAD EYES OF London ( 1961 ) ? on the Retromedia DVD ?
STRANGE IMPERSONATION ( Anthony Mann , 1946 )	The third noir from director Mann ? after THE GREAT FLAMARION ( 1945 ; which I haven't seen ) and the minor but not unentertaining TWO O'CLOCK COURAGE ( 1945 ) ? also has some very welcome horror / sci-fi trappings that should endear it to fans of those kind of movies as well . Lovely blonde , bespectacled scientist Brenda Marshall ( who , in real life , was Mrs . William Holden at the time ) keeps postponing her marriage to colleague William Gargan because of her all-important experiments in anaesthesia , until one night her jealous assistant Hillary Brooke contrives to overdo the mixture causing an explosion in the vicinity of Marshall ( who is out cold ) that leaves her facially scarred . More treachery from the two-faced Brooke manages to bar Gargan from visiting the hospitalized Marshall which leads to their breaking off the engagement . A slight traffic accident on the night of the explosion has also put a blackmailing woman and a snooping lawyer in Marshall's path but , seeing the former fall to her death from the apartment window after a tussle , gives her a new lease on life which enables her to change identities with the dead woman and perform plastic surgery ( courtesy of surgeon H . B . Warner ) . Adopting the facial features of the blackmailer ( including shedding her glasses and dying her hair black ) , she introduces herself to Gargan and Brooke as her own school-friend from chemistry class and is soon employed by the former as his personal aide ! In the meantime , Brooke starts looking into this intruder's past and , confronting Marshall with her contradictory findings , is shocked when her new rival reveals she is the old one in disguise , after all . On the other hand , the obnoxious lawyer is still on Marshall's trail and , in fact , almost gets her convicted for her own murder when Brooke refuses to corroborate her story about who she really is ! The climatic interrogation sequence is where Mann lets all the expressionistic stops out ? until the unexpected ( and unwarranted ) end revelation that it has all been the heroine's nightmare ! ! That the film succeeds as much as it does in spite of the meager cast , inexistent production values and cop-out finale is a tribute to the mastery of a film-maker who is just finding a firm footing in a genre he will be making his own in the following year or two .
THE SILENCERS ( Phil Karlson , 1966 )	I'd always wanted to check out Dean Martin's Matt Helm series of comedy-thrillers spoofing the hugely successful James Bond films ; I'd seen a few imitations of the latter already ( including James Coburn's two Derek Flint movies ) and one good lampoon in CARRY ON SPYING ( 1964 ) ? but this first of the Helms is generally considered as the most successful of the lot . And great fun it is , too ? with Martin gleefully sending up not just the secret agent formula ( pardon the pun ) but his own image as a singer , boozer and womanizer ! Starting off with the amusingly lewd credit sequence ( those for the Bond films themselves were known to be quite risqué ) which is highlighted by Cyd Charisse dancing and miming the title tune ( vocals provided by Vicki Carr ) , we're then introduced to the comfortable lifestyle of a retired secret agent . Matt Helm's house , in fact , is equipped with any number of appliances such as a multi-purpose bed and shower parts strategically placed to appease the censor ( ! ) and a gorgeous personal secretary with the suggestive name of Lovey Kravezit ! ! Incidentally , like Bond , he comes armed with a plethora of unlikely gadgets-cum-deadly weapons such as knives darting out of a camera ( Helm is an amateur photographer ) , a jacket fitted with micro-bombs and , best of all , a gun that can shoot in reverse ! Helm operates in the service of I . C . E . ( Intelligence Counter Espionage ) , whose nemesis is The Big O ; their current leader is an underused Victor Buono as an improbable Asian and his nefarious plan involves a wide-spread infestation of radioactivity which would eventually spark a war between the U . S . A . and the U . S . S . R . Helm's superior is played by James Gregory and his luscious aide is Daliah Lavi ; they're supposed to pick up a compromising tape from the leading performer ( Charisse ) at a swank club . However , she's murdered in mid-routine and in full view of the audience ( shades of Hitchcock's THE 39 STEPS [ 1935 ] perhaps ? ) ? but , before she expires , Charisse confides the tape and a cryptic message to Stella Stevens ( who happens to be standing nearest to her ) . The latter constitutes a delightful presence as an accident-prone red-headed beauty whom Helm even dubs a " disaster area " ; having been involved with Robert Webber ( who's revealed as an operative of The Big O ) , Helm suspects that Stevens is too and tries to get her to reveal their intentions ? but it eventually transpires that the double agent resides within his own ranks ! Martin and Stevens are caught and taken to the enemy underground base but , naturally , manage to escape , outwit Buono , defeat his henchmen , and thwart the operation in the nick of time . The film provides stylish and witty entertainment spiced with in-jokes ( including a friendly jibe at Martin's fellow Rat Packer Frank Sinatra ) and the occasional verse sung by Martin himself commenting on the action ( ! ) ; incidentally , Elmer Bernstein's score is quite good . If one had to nitpick , the plot isn't all that interesting or even very suspenseful ? though a car chase early on and the final outburst of action is competently handled by director Karlson . Still , the film's mainstay are undoubtedly the two leading performances ? one laid-back but , at the same time , shrewdly self-deprecating and the other at once sexy and charmingly maladroit . One final nod to the James Bond extravaganzas is the film's epilogue announcing the next adventure of the secret agent ; by the way , I'll be following this myself with another Martin / Helm outing ? though it happens to be the very last one in the series , THE WRECKING CREW ( 1969 ; mind you , all three sequels are reportedly much inferior ! ) , which I acquired concurrently with THE SILENCERS ?
SANDOKAN { Episodes 1-6 } ( TV ) ( Sergio Sollima , 1976 )	To begin with , I recall catching a re-run of this on Italian TV as a kid ( apart from an earlier cinematic adventure featuring the titular character as incarnated by popular muscle-man Steve Reeves ) . Incidentally , I had recently rewatched the big-screen follow-up to the serial under review called THE BLACK PIRATE ( 1976 ) ? which I enjoyed quite a bit , and was actually reminded of this one even back then . Besides , a reduction of SANDOKAN ? which was released to theaters under the lengthy title LA TIGRE E ' ANCORA VIVA : SANDOKAN ALLA RISCOSSA ! ? has just been shown on Italian TV : I taped it but , knowing the serial was readily available for rental on DVD , I opted to watch the entire thing ( I had intended to check out the film as a companion piece but , being currently swarmed by titles on various formats , I thought better of leaving this for another day ! ) . While somewhat leisurely-paced , SANDOKAN is never boring ; its classical serial structure makes for sheer old-fashioned fun , with good action sequences ( director Sollima had cut his teeth on Spaghetti Westerns and Gangster flicks ) and a rousing score by the De Angelis brothers ( several variations on the main theme are heard throughout ) . It also maintains a nice balance between literariness , local color , and the thrilling / romantic requirements of the genre ? and is very well cast besides : Kabir Bedi ( at once dashing and commanding in his signature role ) , Carol Andre ' ( one of Euro-Cult's loveliest starlets ) , Adolfo Celi ( making for a formidable villain ) and , especially , Philippe Leroy ( as Sandokan's witty but resourceful sidekick ) . With respect to the quality of the Yamato DVD edition I watched , it's not as bad as comments by disgruntled fans on the ' Net had led me to believe ( for the record , the serial is also available as a 3-Disc Set from a different label ) ; I do have one qualm , though , about the decision to use the reduced English credits ( but , then , the originals are available as part of the bonus features ) . The latter includes a biography of the character's creator , Emilio Salgari : I was surprised to learn that he led a short and tragic life , but also that a later exotic serial I had watched ? and in which Bedi was featured ? called THE MYSTERIES OF THE DARK JUNGLE ( 1991 ) was based on his work .
THE MESSIAH ( Roberto Rossellini , 1975 )	Dubbed " the most Catholic of all film directors " by one critic , I guess it was only a matter of time before Roberto Rossellini tackled the life of Christ on celluloid . Ironically , this he did in what proved to be his last feature film which was , in itself , a follow-up to his TV mini-series ACTS OF THE APOSTLES ( 1969 ) . That earlier work was interesting for treating little-known passages from the New Testament but , with an unhurried pace and a generally unassuming tone , the end result was decidedly meandering . Conversely , THE MESSIAH presents all-too-familiar events ? with the overall effect feeling lengthy still , yet distinctly more cinematic . That said , it starts off with the arrival of the Jews in the Promised Land and the appointment of their first king ( Saul ) before moving on to the life of Christ ; actually , this is also one of the few films to show the famous incident in which Jesus is lost in the temple as a boy . Unsurprisingly , it doesn't stray much from the spirit ? or word ? of the Gospels : even so , in the throes of an agonizing death , Herod The Great ( played by Vittorio Caprioli ? though his trademark flustered demeanor is downplayed by having his voice dubbed ) is seen planning the annihilation of his own subjects akin to the practice of ancient Egyptian rulers ! Incidentally , the rich and commanding voice of Christ himself is supplied by Enrico Maria Salerno ? a superb actor in his own right who had actually already handled the very same task in THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST . MATTHEW ( 1964 ) ? which is effectively contrasted with the inconspicuous appearance of the young man who appears in the role ( perhaps best approximating the Lothaire Bluteau of Jesus OF MONTREAL [ 1989 ] ) . This Messiah , then , is far removed from the striking good-looks of Jeffrey Hunter ( KING OF KINGS [ 1961 ] ) and Robert Powell ( the Jesus OF NAZARETH [ 1977 ] TV mini-series ) or the brooding power of Max von Sydow ( THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD [ 1965 ] ) and Willem Dafoe ( THE LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ [ 1988 ] ) ! Naturally , the bulk of the narrative is devoted to Christ's public life ? though no overdue emphasis is placed on the miracles he performed ( these are mentioned but rarely seen ) ? which also provides the film with its essential core ? since the latter section , revolving around the more commonly-depicted events of Jesus ' trial ( where Jean Martin , the French Colonel in THE BATTLE OF ALGIERS [ 1966 ] , nonetheless makes for a fine Pontius Pilate ) , crucifixion and eventual resurrection are curiously skimped here ! The subplot involving John The Baptist , however , is quite nicely handled ; by the way , the only other recognizable face in the cast is that of Tina Aumont ( even if her contribution amounts to no more than a few minutes of screen-time ! ) as the adulteress Christ famously pardons by denouncing her pursuers instead . The score is , once again , by Mario Nascimbene ? though it's not as prominent as his work on ACTS OF THE APOSTLES . On the visual side , the film seems closest to the contemporaneous Jesus OF NAZARETH ? yet the lyrical style and quiet dignity on display makes of THE MESSIAH a more than worthy companion piece to Pier Paolo Pasolini's aforementioned ( and more renowned ) THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST . MATTHEW . With this in mind , while perhaps not the definitive film on the subject , it certainly emerges as an underrated achievement ? both among the myriad treatments ( including those by such great directors as D . W . Griffith , Carl Theodor Dreyer , Cecil B . DeMille and Abel Gance ) of Christ's life over the years and in Rossellini's own highly respected canon .
DEDEE D ' ANVERS ( Yves Allegret , 1948 )	This was a contender for the Venice Film Festival's Golden Lion ? facing such stiff competitors as THE FALLEN IDOL , David Lean's OLIVER TWIST , THE RED SHOES , THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE and the eventual winner , Laurence Olivier's HAMLET . Incidentally , leading lady Simone Signoret and director Allegret were husband and wife at the time of shooting , but they divorced the following year . On the surface , the film does feel suspiciously like an inferior rehash of Marcel Carne's PORT OF SHADOWS ( 1938 ) ? not just its harbor setting and noir-ish ambiance , but the characterizations themselves : with Signoret neatly replacing Michele Morgan , Italian writer - turned - director - and - actor Marcello Pagliero ( he starred in Roberto Rossellini's ROME , OPEN CITY [ 1945 ] and later directed the similarly-titled ROMA , CITTA ' LIBERA [ 1946 ] ) instead of Jean Gabin , Bernard Blier standing in for Michel Simon , and Marcel Dalio essaying the role of the cowardly crook portrayed by Pierre Brasseur in the earlier film ! Even so , the four leads are all excellent in their respective roles : Signoret , especially , has a star-making turn as the optimistic bar hostess / streetwalker and Dalio is deliciously slimy as her wimpish pimp who is not above beating her to get the girl to extort more money from her clients , which he then squanders on his infallibly doomed schemes . The film is very well done in all departments ( an unexpected highlight is a brutal street scuffle early on , not to mention the vicious ending ) and makes one look forward to eventually sampling Allegret's other well-regarded efforts ? UNE SI JOLIE PETITE PLAGE ( 1949 ) , MANEGES ( 1950 ; also with Signoret and Blier , which I have on VHS but only in French ) and THE PROUD AND THE BEAUTIFUL ( 1953 ) . Ultimately , DEDEE D ' ANVERS has the disadvantage of being sort of stuck in the middle between two superior movies on a similar theme ? the afore-mentioned PORT OF SHADOWS and Jacques Becker's CASQUE D'OR ( 1952 ; also starring Signoret ) . While one has to be grateful to Italian TV channels for the loyalty they show towards French cinema in the way they keep pumping them out throughout their daily schedules , I have to complain about the dire state of the print quality on evidence here : the video is hazy in the extreme and is saddled besides with a tagged-on , anachronistically modernistic soundtrack !
The Muppets Take Manhattan ( Frank Oz , 1984 )	The third Muppet movie is perhaps the most relaxed and pleasing , with the gang taking their modest college musical to the bright ( yet volatile ) lights of Broadway filled with typically naïve optimism . Of course , their first attempt fails and Kermit ( leader of the group and author of the show ) blows his top ; so , the others all go their separate ways so that he won't have to feel responsible for them . Kermit himself befriends a young wannabe fashion designer making ends meet by serving food at her father's diner ( the old man , then , has a line in particularly tortuous non-sequiturs ! ) . We get the usual cameo appearances by a variety of stars : Art Carney ( as a producer ) , James Coco ( as an overzealous dog owner ) , Dabney Coleman ( as a confidence trickster ) , Elliott Gould ( who was also in THE MUPPET MOVIE [ 1979 ] ) , Gregory Hines , Liza Minnelli ( as herself ? having her portrait at a classy restaurant replaced by Kermit's , sporting fake moustache , as an ostensibly celebrated entrepreneur in a ruse to attract publicity to the Muppets ' show ) , Brooke Shields , and even director John Landis ( in possibly the film's funniest scene as a Broadway producer before whom Kermit appears acting streetwise and chummy and hilariously donning shades and an Afro wig ! ) . The other Muppets more or less go through their typical paces , with ( regrettably ) less space given to Gonzo this time around ; while Miss Piggy is something of an acquired taste with me , the scenes in which the latter spies on what she takes to be Kermit's romance with the waitress ? and especially her violent reaction to this ? are undeniably funny . What disappoints , however , is the climactic show itself ( after a fairly redundant midsection wherein Kermit gets amnesia and eventually picks up advertising on Madison Avenue ) which , rather than the expected splashy routines , procures nothing more original than the wedding ceremony of Kermit and his eternal flame Miss Piggy !
THE HARDER THEY COME ( Perry Henzell , 1972 )	I had first intended to watch this when the Criterion DVD went out-of-print but I only managed to get to it now that the director has passed away ! I'm not one of Blaxpioitation's biggest fans - even less so of Reggae music - but this is surely among the best I've seen ; unfortunately , the heavy Jamaican accents make the dialogue unintelligible at times ( even if I was watching the film with the benefit of Italian subtitles ) ! Though the plot offers nothing new - a young man moves from the country to the city hoping to make it as a singing performer but , seeing how he's being exploited by his manager , resorts to crime in order to make a fast buck with the inevitable tragic outcome - the vividness of the ethnic culture and setting make it seem fresh and exciting ( thanks in large part , too , to the great soundtrack , providing thought-provoking lyrics amidst unusual rhythms ) ; sure , it's rough and raw film-making , but the end result is frequently disarming and exhilarating . That said , the characters aren't very likable ( including our hero played by Reggae star Jimmy Cliff , who also composed the songs ) and the film ends up being somewhat overstretched for its purpose ; the finale , though , with Cliff facing-off with the militia single-handedly ( inspired by a screening of DJANGO [ 1966 ] he saw in a local cinema shortly after his arrival in town ) is worth waiting for . Along the road , Cliff also gets involved with a preacher and his female ward ; as a matter of fact , the all-black church sequences here reminded me of GANJA AND HESS ( 1973 ) - incidentally , " ganja " ( street slang for dope ) turns out to be a major plot point in this film's own latter stages . Unfortunately , it seems that the version I watched is slightly trimmed as the IMDb lists scenes and shots ( notably full-frontal nudity during a beating Cliff receives at the hands of the police ) which aren't present here ! By the way , the film's original soundtrack was voted No . 8 among the All-Time Top 20 Soundtrack Albums in an authoritative 1995 poll .
THE GAUCHO ( F . Richard Jones , 1927 )	Unusual but beautifully made and typically enjoyable Douglas Fairbanks vehicle , which finds the star at his most roguish ( while still being his dashing and athletic self ) ; with the Argentine pampas for backdrop , the film ? whose full official title is DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS AS THE GAUCHO ? can be considered a semi-Western . The narrative encompasses romance ( supplied by fiery Lupe Velez ) , religion ( via the presence of a miraculous shrine overseen by a saintly shepherdess ? we even get a couple of visions of the Madonna herself , played by Fairbanks ' own equally popular actress wife , Mary Pickford ! ) as well as more characteristic action ( in the form of The Gaucho's opposition to the rule of tyrannical Gustav von Seyffertitz ) . A subplot which ties in with the element of faith sees the hero being deliberately contaminated by a carrier of " The Black Doom " whom he had previously slighted , though both are eventually cured . Fairbanks ' trademark pioneering spirit in the technical department is also well in evidence here ? with matte paintings giving the illusion of a truly elaborate visual design , reversed film for one particularly showy leap by the star onto his faithful steed , and even the wholesale horse-driven transportation of a house at one point !
MICHELANGELO EYE TO EYE ( Michelangelo Antonioni , 2004 )	This 20-minute short is Michelangelo Antonioni’s true final film and , for a master film-maker who has peerlessly studied ( over almost a 55-year period ) the inability of people to communicate between one another , it is appropriate that his last characters are himself – who has been debilitated by a stroke and deprived of speech and most bodily movement for practically 20 years – and the " inanimate " statues found in St . Peter’s Basilica in Rome . It is also fitting that a modern artist who has carried all his life the first name of one of the greatest artists the world has ever known , Michelangelo Buonarroti , should seek to pay tribute to his " ancestor " through his own medium of expression . And so it is that , ‘through the magic of cinema’ , we see a frail Michelangelo Antonioni ‘make his way’ slowly through the empty Basilica and find himself a place where to observe in pensive solitude and from a close but respectful distance the figures sculpted by Michelangelo in the 16th Century , the most prominent of which being that of Moses . The film mostly has the camera gazing , panning or tracking incessantly over every detail of the awesome statues and occasionally show us the interaction between the two ‘entities’ , even down to taking the exact same camera position from each other’s viewpoint . Antonioni occasionally makes some jerky hand movements as if dumb-founded by what he is seeing but , then , his ‘disembodied’ hand is seen caressing the statues and feeling the tactile nature of the sculptor’s artistry . I cannot profess to be anywhere near the ideal person to describe Buonarroti’s work – sculpture , painting and classical music have always been too highbrow for me and best left for the cognoscenti to appreciate – and , for all I know , this may be the most boring and pointless piece of celluloid ever shot for the uninitiated . But for the admirers of the two Michelangelos ( but especially Antonioni ) , this is essential viewing . There have been finer cinematic swan songs , no doubt , but possibly none have been as moving .
SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE ( Danny Boyle , 2008 )	A curious mix of CITY OF GOD ( 2002 ) and QUIZ SHOW ( 1994 ) , this surprising multi-Oscar winner is a good film to be sure but also somewhat overrated ( as was director Boyle's TRAINSPOTTING [ 1996 ] after all ) . The editing is deftly intricate ( spanning several years , the story continually jumps back and forth in time ) and the exotic score certainly effective ; however , Boyle's flashy technique rings false within the context of its underprivileged setting ! SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE may have alerted the rest of the world to the dire conditions of life in ( the so-called ) modern India but , at the same time , it cannot have benefited the country's tourist industry any ! The film's trump card is actually the ' impossible romance ' at its core : the two young leads are believable and undeniably appealing . The whole " Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ? " angle , then , has a decidedly contrived feel to it : though apparently based on fact , the film was clearly intended as a fable . That said , some of the flashbacks do not really illuminate us as to how the hero knew the respective answer : for instance , does someone need to know who invented the revolver just because he owns one ( much less an uneducated person ) and would the final all-important question of such a show be one to which the answer could have easily been arrived at by common sense ( had it not been a recurring motif ) ?
Vivre Sa Vie : Film En Douze Tableaux ( Jean-Luc Godard , 1962 )	If I had any real doubts that most American filmgoers are not entirely in tune with European sensibilities , this would have been the ideal film to prove it ! As I rewatched VIVRE SA VIE , I was reminded that Godard had actually employed some " extreme " directorial touches which I had tried to use in shooting my own short films in Hollywood a few months ago , but to which most of my classmates and directing teacher objected to as being too " avant-garde " ! ! In any case , I have to admit a personal bias in favor of Godard's 1960-68 output which I find to be extremely innovative , intoxicating and , yes , perplexing ; I also have a big crush on Godard's muse of the time , the enchanting Anna Karina - and the mere fact that she's in practically every frame of this film certainly aids in my overlooking some of Godard's cinematic excesses ! It's always amusing for me to read Godard's dedications at the start of his films ( in this case , B-movies ! ) which , invariably , hardly resemble anything found in the following product . Godard would go on to deal with the theme of prostitution in several other films throughout his career ( including some of the many multi-national portmanteau films he had a hand in ) , most notably in TWO OR THREE THINGS I KNOW ABOUT HER ( 1967 ) and EVERY MAN FOR HIMSELF aka SLOW MOTION ( 1980 ) . And whoever says that streetwalkers have no culture , better think again , as Anna Karina's character is seen reacting very emotionally to a theatrical screening of Carl Theodor Dreyer's sublime THE PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC ( 1928 ) ! For some odd reason , the first time I had watched this movie a couple of years ago on Italian TV , it was severely truncated ( lasting barely over an hour rather than the official 85 minutes ! ) but , for the life of me , I can't figure out now what had been cut - as the nude scenes in the film's latter stages were all intact ! ! What's worse is that this wasn't even the first time that an Italian TV screening I saw of a particular film was considerably shorter than anticipated : Carol Reed's ODD MAN OUT ( 1946 ) , Jean-Pierre Melville's L ' ARMEE ' DES OMBRES ( 1969 ) , LA SIRENE DE MISSISSIPPI ( 1969 ) , THE LONG GOODBYE ( 1973 ) , etc . ! !
The Witch	When my pal at the DVD store told me that he had ordered Damiano Damiani's THE WITCH , I admitted that I had never heard of it before - although , on looking up the film under its original Italian title , I had the notion that it may have been shown on late-night TV without my realizing what sort of film it was ! In any case , having now watched it for myself , THE WITCH has proved to be one of the most pleasant film-viewing surprises I've had since the beginning of the year ! Ostensibly a horror film , it doesn't easily fit into the genre since Damiani approaches it , for the most part , as if it were a Kafkaesque art-house flick ( with an undeniable erotic charge , which was as unexpected in this kind of film as it was effective ) ! This isn't in itself a bad thing , since THE WITCH has a very elegant look to it - in direct contrast to the endless spate of undistinguished low-budget productions being churned out by the Italian film industry during this time - extending to the production design ( its excellent use of locations is a major asset ) and the inspired use of shadowy lighting ( coming as it did at the tail-end of black-and-white horror-film production ) which is comparable to the work of Mario Bava . As a matter of fact , it reminded me quite a bit of the latter's KILL , BABY . . . KILL ! , made the same year ( albeit shot in color ) and also largely set in a decrepit mansion ; besides , Rosanna Schiaffino's hypnotic beauty and wonderful performance can stand proudly alongside Barbara Steele's iconic showcase in BLACK Sunday ( 1960 ) and especially that of Daliah Lavi in THE WHIP AND THE BODY ( 1963 ) - both of which , incidentally , were also directed by Bava ! The rest of the cast features Richard Johnson ( fresh from another subtle horror piece , Robert Wise ' THE HAUNTING [ 1963 ] ) as the bewildered love-struck hero , Sarah Ferrati ( here in only her second film and which also proved to be the last ! ) as the creepy-looking old " lady " who sets the complex plot in motion - and who has an unexplained predilection towards torturing cats ( loving animals as much as I do , I found these scenes somewhat disturbing ! ) , Gian Maria Volonte ' ( excellent as Schiaffino's distraught former lover who still resides in the doomed mansion ) and Ivan Rassimov ( who is set to take over Johnson's double duties at the house , until the latter resolves to put an end to the whole charade in the fiery climax ) . Apart from the latter scene ( and , of course , the sexy bits ) , perhaps the film's best moment is when Schiaffino goes - convincingly - into convulsions ( years prior to THE EXORCIST [ 1973 ] ) and discloses her " true " identity to a horrified Richard Johnson . From the few comments I've managed to find about the film , most have described it as being slow and pretentious . While I wasn't bothered by the film's deliberate pace ( and I usually am in this type of film ! ) , I must say that I am prone to appreciate intelligence in a horror film even more than in virtually any other genre - since it's the one that has suffered most at the hands of untalented film-makers and exploitative producers who go for the easy buck and are content to follow the current trend without " putting their mind to it " , as it were . The DVD I watched , unfortunately , was a full-frame affair , fuzzy-looking ( possibly sourced from a 16mm print ) and poorly dubbed ( which , coupled with the rather muffled audio , made the dialogue hard to understand at times ! ) . I do hope that a more deserving edition of this gem eventually surfaces but , if not , I'll be on the look-out for it in the event that it turns up ( again ) on late-night Italian TV . . . Damiano Damiani was just one of many Italian film-makers who made their mark on Italian " cult " cinema during the 60s and 70s and while he isn't among the more celebrated of the bunch , from what I've seen of his work - ARTURO'S ISLAND ( 1962 ) , THE WITCH , A BULLET FOR THE GENERAL ( 1967 ) , HOW TO KILL A JUDGE ( 1974 ) and THE INQUIRY ( 1987 ) - he more than holds his own ; this reminds me that I have Damiani's IL GIORNO DELLA CIVETTA ( 1968 ) and THE DEVIL IS A WOMAN ( 1975 ) lying in my ever-increasing " Unwatched Films on VHS " pile . . . not to mention 2 starring lovely Schiaffino and 9 with Volonte ' ( surely one of Italy's most versatile and important actors ) ! !
THE TELLTALE HEART ( Charles F . Klein , 1928 )	This is another avant-garde treatment of a classic Poe story : again , it's a very satisfying visual experience but the slightly meatier running time ? 24 minutes as opposed to THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER ( 1928 ) ' s 13 ? allows the theme of the story to fully and recognizably emerge this time around . While the deranged hero looks uncannily like a young Gary Oldman , the all-important appearance of his elderly nemesis does not disappoint ( though , in retrospect , it's dispensed with a little too soon ! ) . Most interesting here , too , are the bizarre expressionist sets ? obviously modeled on the ones in THE CABINET OF DR . CALIGARI ( 1920 ) .
THE ADVENTURES OF GERARD ( Jerzy Skolimowski , 1970 )	I was pleasantly surprised by this one : Leonard Maltin rates it a BOMB but I found it great fun , if uneven . Skolimowski's first English-language film was actually shot in Cinecitta ' and , in fact , features many Italians in the cast ( all of whom struggle with the literary - and very English - nature of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's original ! ) . There's still plenty of amusing detail to savor - the subject matter of the Napoleonic Wars is treated as farce most of the time and , in fact , there's quite a bit of slapstick involved ( to which Skolimowski's technique is happy to oblige via numerous camera tricks , pretty much the sole link here to his early Polish films ) - and , accordingly , all the performances are broadly delineated : Peter McEnery is a pompous yet likable ne'er-do-well hero ; Eli Wallach is a buffoonish ( and gay ) Napoleon ; while Jack Hawkins has a whale of a time ( which , alas , happened very seldom in the films he made following the tragic loss of his voice ) as the flustered leader of a bandit rabble who have adopted novel means of torture and execution , and are even dressed in Klan-type garb ! Apart from asides to the audience , McEnery also engages in a constantly interrupted duel with British officer Mark Burns - with whom he also spars for the affections of beautiful and fiery Spanish countess Claudia Cardinale . John Neville is the Duke of Wellington in his last film for almost 20 years ( when he achieved some latter-day notoriety , in another tongue-in-cheek fantasia no less , with the title role of Terry Gilliam's THE ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHAUSEN [ 1988 ] ) . Riz Ortolani contributes a suitably jaunty , yet frequently rousing , score . Unfortunately , some of the film's visual impact was inevitably lost in the pan-and-scan version I watched ( taped off Cable TV ) ; originally shot in Panavision , I wouldn't mind owning this in its proper Aspect Ratio on DVD . . .
THE SQUARE PEG ( John Paddy Carstairs , 1958 )	This service comedy ( another favorite situation with star comedians ) - part army-base shenanigans and part dangerous mission - ranks as possibly the best Norman Wisdom vehicle there is , with a consistent string of often hilarious gags and the star - turning up again in drag and also appearing in a dual role ( including one as a Nazi General ) - in top form . Supporting him are Edward Chapman ( virtually rising to sidekick status here , he and Wisdom make an engaging comic pair ) , Honor Blackman ( perhaps the most substantial of the star's leading ladies ) and Hattie Jacques ( as a German opera star ) .
I'LL NEVER FORGET YOU ( Roy Ward Baker , 1951 )	I'd been looking forward to this one , in view of its time-travel / reincarnation theme ( released as part of a 10-movie set of minor Tyrone Power vehicles , I had opted to acquire it through ulterior sources ? though I may still get my hands on some of the other titles ) . Still , I was surprised by how well this implausible yet fascinating theme is handled here ? surely making for one of the star's most underrated ( and unusual ) efforts . Made in Britain , the film was based on John L . Balderston's romantic fantasy play " Berkeley Square " ( the literate adaptation here is by Ranald MacDougall ) ? already brought to the screen in 1933 under that name ( while the original title of this one is actually THE HOUSE IN THE SQUARE ) ; the first version is virtually impossible to see nowadays , though it did land Leslie Howard an Oscar nomination ? the ultimate irony , given that the transcendental narrative essentially bestows its protagonist with immortality , is that an untimely demise was in store for the leading man of both cinematic renditions ! Anyway , Power is an American scientist working in England ( the initial radiation experiment is intriguing but superfluous and misleading under the circumstances ) who lives in a house belonging to an ancestor of his and who conveniently looked just like him . Finding the latter's diary , he learns that he had been persecuted for his strange beliefs and practices and was eventually locked up in an insane asylum ? he becomes convinced that , by some quirk of nature , the two had actually exchanged places and , soon enough , he's hit by a bolt of lightning and wakes up in 1784 ! He meets the family of his forebear including the latter's future wife ( Beatrice Campbell ) ; thanks to letters which had been preserved and that he had read , Power's initially able to comfortably fill his shoes ? however , he then meets and falls for Ann Blyth , Campbell's sister and of whom he was unaware ! Soon , the hero begins to commit other gaffes by which he demonstrates to be perceptive of things that hadn't yet occurred or , at least , weren't common knowledge ( from the gift of a shawl for Campbell which Blyth hadn't even unpacked , the secret and subsequently famous portrait of a Duchess ? played by Kathleen Byron ? by the painter Gainsborough , delivering the lady's own obituary at a ball , not to mention ' feeding ' Dr . Johnson with some of his own celebrated epigrams [ ! ] , etc ) . This doesn't sit at all well with either Campbell ( who's unwilling to keep up her engagement to Power , not least because of his constant attentions for her sister ) or the vindictive Raymond Huntley ( Blyth's much older suitor ) . The hero , finding himself increasingly out-of-touch with the times , retires to a basement in a poor quarter of town to ' recreate ' future inventions such as the light bulb and the model of a steam-ship ; when these are discovered , they're branded the handiwork of a sorcerer by eminent scientist Felix Aylmer ? the place is destroyed there and then , while Power is on his way to perpetual confinement in Bedlam ! Other notable cast members are Dennis Price ( playing an amiable rake , as was his fashion during this time ? the relentless and rather effeminate pursuit of etiquette by the aristocrats , in fact , is just about the sole blemish on the picture ) and Michael Rennie ( as Power's pragmatic scientist associate in the modern-day sequences ) . Incidentally , the film utilizes moody black-and-white cinematography for these bookends ? while soft but attractive color is employed throughout the central ' fantasy ' section ; both are courtesy of Georges Perinal , a top French cameraman resident in Britain for over thirty years . Similarly , Power effectively tackles both facets of his character : the film , ultimately , can be read as both a morality play ( the hero's decision to tempt Fate which , as often happens , subsequently threatens to unbalance the order of the things ) and a celebration of that well-worn Surrealist concept ? l ' amour fou ? in his relationship with a radiant Blyth ( herself playing a dual role , the second as Rennie's sister who had cared for the Power's even more bewildered ancestor in his unseen tenure in the 20th century ) . Given my appreciation for THE HOUSE IN THE SQUARE ( the title I'm partial to myself ) , I'm all the more interested now in one day catching the original version . Finally , this was one of British director Baker ( a future horror regular ) ' s brief four-movie brush with Hollywood ? I'd already watched DON'T BOTHER TO KNOCK ( 1952 ; which I also own ) and INFERNO ( 1953 ) , but not the minor noir NIGHT WITHOUT SLEEP ( 1952 ) .
GIRL SLAVES OF MORGANA LE FEY ( Bruno Gantillon , 1971 )	Inspired by the exploits of the famous witch found in Arthurian legends , this film has an appropriately medieval feel to it - not least because of its authentic castle setting and the evocative score by Francois de Roubaix ( using the pseudonym Cisco El Rubio ! ) . While it was sold as exploitation on the strength of its copious nudity ( the mostly female cast also entailing lesbianism ) , the script - where characterization is given its due , which is more than can be said for most " Euro-Cult " titles ! - is surprisingly literate . In this respect - not to mention having the titular character's dungeon crammed with a bevy of mostly willing slaves ! - the film anticipated the " Elizabeth Bathory " segment in Walerian Borowczyk's IMMORAL TALES ( 1974 ) . Speaking of Bathory , Dominique Delpierre's Morgana here actually reminded me of that character as incarnated by Delphine Seyrig in DAUGHTERS OF DARKNESS ( 1971 ) - which , incidentally , was also scored by De Roubaix ! The sustained dream-like mood here results in a languorous pace , which is actually typical of low-budget fantasy films made in France during this time : its main purveyors were Jean Rollin and Jess Franco , but Gantillon's effort is ample proof that others ( whose career wasn't as prolific and , consequently , faded into obscurity ) were , at least , equally adept at this sort of thing ; though it often descended into camp - which the title under review here , thankfully , doesn't ! - Michel Lemoine's SEVEN WOMEN FOR Satan ( 1974 ) , incidentally also a Mondo Macabro release , is another one of its kind I enjoyed a good deal . Besides , the film's production values ( primarily - and economically - utilizing natural resources ) , accentuated by Jean Monsigny's odd framing , impart the film with an effortless classiness not usually found in lowbrow " Euro-Cult " ventures . That said , the lengthy feast / lesbian orgy towards the end stops the film dead in it tracks and the unresolved ending may seem like a cop-out ( though I took it as merely another bizarre touch in a movie filled with unconventional detail ) . With respect to casting , this too appears to have received some uncommon consideration : the sinister-looking Alfred Baillou is memorable as Morgana's love-struck ( yet jealous ) dwarf henchman ! ; Delpierre ( who is able to materialize wherever she pleases , as is demonstrated in the final moments of the film ) and Regine Motte ( as one of her three favored nymphs endowed with psychic powers : in fact , one of the most striking scenes in the film is when they relate to Morgana the movements of the fleeing heroine beyond the castle walls - which is shown in a form of stylized choreography ) are the loveliest of the six leading ladies , but also the most able performers .
LADY Oscar ( Jacques Demy , 1979 )	As had been the case with Christian-Jaque's THE BLACK TULIP ( 1964 ) , this is another French swashbuckler whom I first became aware of via the Japanese animated series I used to catch on Italian TV as a kid . Conversely , the film version of LADY Oscar proved to be more satisfying than that of THE BLACK TULIP , which is surprising given that the former is a maligned film within its distinguished director's canon . Having said that , along with his modernistic remake of Jean Cocteau's OPRHEE ' ( 1950 ) entitled PARKING ( 1985 ) , LADY Oscar had always been the one title I was most eager to catch from Demy's lean and near-invisible post-1973 period . It is ironic therefore that I have managed that feat before having acquainted myself with Demy's best-known and finest achievements of the early 1960s ? which is all the more remarkable when one considers that LADY Oscar was a bastard international production : a Franco-Japanese joint venture shot in English with a cast of equally mixed nationalities and whose tangled worldwide distribution rights have made it impossible for even the British Film Institute to secure a screening in their renowned National Film Theatre in London for a ' complete ' Jacques Demy retrospective in November 2007 ! Therefore , all the more power to Yamato Video , the Italian DVD production company who specializes in releasing vintage Japanese anime series ( that were all the rage on Italian TV as I was growing up in the 1980s and early 1990s ) for succeeding where others have failed ; a gallery of trailers from their catalogue is available as a supplement on the LADY Oscar disc and watching it was " a blast from the past " for me as the saying goes ! Anyhow , back to the film at hand : the fairy-tale qualities of the historical narrative are ideal hunting grounds for Demy , who had already brought DONKEY SKIN ( 1970 ) and THE PIED PIPER ( 1972 ) to the screen ? although , in this case , he drew inspiration from a Japanese comic strip rather than a local legend ( albeit set in his native land ) . Needless to say , the film is a feast for the eyes when it comes to sets ( some of the exteriors were actually shot on the Versailles Palace grounds ) and costumes but , even if the work of Demy here seems not be counted among his finest achievements , a couple of elegantly sweeping camera movements ( the clandestine meeting in the abandoned château between Queen Marie Antoinette and her Swedish lover ) and well-mounted sequences ( the vigorous fist-fight in the tavern ) are certainly noteworthy ; the same applies to the musical contribution of Demy's regular composer Michel Legrand . If there are distinct flaws , it's that the film moves at rather too deliberate a pace ( with a running time of just over two hours ) and has a needlessly unhappy ending . In spite of the title , the narrative incorporates three parallel story lines that give a more sweeping picture of the tumultuous times it depicts ( starting out in 1755 with the birth of Oscar and culminating in the storming of the Bastille that led directly to the French Revolution of 1789 ) : Oscar's father had long wanted a male heir to follow him into his military career and when his wife dies in giving birth to yet another female , he determines to make a man of his newborn child regardless ; while Oscar is eventually recruited as personal guard to Marie Antoinette , we follow the amorous exploits of the latter as well as the rise of one female peasant into aristocracy through devious schemes and callous behavior to her true peers ( perhaps in emulation of the notorious Madame Dubarry whose name is mentioned at one point ) . In view of its origins as light-hearted kiddie fare , there is a surprisingly subversive undercurrent of sexual ambiguity in Oscar's imposed masculinity ( and the fact that this starts a cross-dressing fad among the upper classes ) , the repressed feelings for her shown by the stable boy she grew up with , the full-blown kiss on the lips Oscar gives during her own supposed engagement party to a giggling young lady she's dancing with , etc . Catriona MacColl looks just ravishing in the title role , both when dressed in her military outfit and also when she occasionally gives in to her womanhood ( including a brief topless bit ) ; this was her first film and arguably her best role since only another appearance for Demy and three in Lucio Fulci horror films ? including CITY OF THE LIVING DEAD ( 1980 ) for which she even recorded an exclusive audio commentary for its R2 DVD ! ? really stick out from the rest of her filmography . Another beguiling presence in the film is undoubtedly that of Christine Bohm who plays Marie Antoinette ; unlike MacColl ( despite their being the same age ) , LADY Oscar proved to be her last film as she tragically died at 25 in an accident that same year . As for the male cast , the most prominent are Barry Stokes ( as Oscar's stable boy companion and true love ) and Martin Potter ( as her jaded , titled but short-lived fiancé ) ; incidentally , while they both had their artistic triumphs for major directors ? in Juan Antonio Bardem's THE CORRUPTION OF CHRIS MILLER ( 1973 ) and Federico Fellini's FELLINI - SATYRICON ( 1969 ) ? they each also worked for cultish British exploitation film-maker Norman J . Warren in , respectively , PREY ( 1978 ) and SATAN'S SLAVE ( 1976 ) ! ! P . S . My amiably lazy feline pet goes by the name of " Lady Oscar " : I had originally dubbed it Oskar ? in tribute to one of my favorite foreign films THE TIN DRUM ( 1979 ) because , like its protagonist , my cat seems to have stopped growing of its own accord ( while that of my aunt , which is of a similar breed and only a year or so older , has become quite huge ! ) ; my mother , unaware of this connection , insists on calling her " Lady " because , first of all , it's a female and , frankly , really does act royally and has the genuine impression that we're there to wait on it ! !
Born To Kill ( 1947 )	This is a pretty tough and cynical film to come from the typically tasteful Robert Wise : an exemplary noir with both Claire Trevor and the indomitable Lawrence Tierney at their very best ; BORN TO KILL also offers memorable roles to such sterling character actors as Walter Slezak , Elisha Cook Jr . , and ( especially ) Esther Howard . The film was intended to put leading man Tierney into the Hollywood big league but , ultimately , his erratic and violent behavior off-screen put those plans to rest ; he still managed to work steadily over the years , eventually becoming an iconic figure which undoubtedly led to his landing a pivotal role in Quentin Tarantino's RESERVOIR DOGS ( 1992 ) . The Audio Commentary on Warners ' DVD offers some hilarious anecdotes about Tierney's off-screen antics , even in his old age : at a 1999 screening of the film at Grauman's Egyptian Theater , among other things , he verbally berated director Wise ( who was the guest of honor ) for claiming " authoriship " of the film . It's a pity that when I was there ( on numerous occasions ) a few weeks ago , nothing quite as colorful took place ! Unfortunately , my disc seems to be incompatible with my Pioneer DVD player as it pixilated like crazy when I inserted it ; however , it played without a glitch on my computer's DVD-ROM ! !
THE ARISTOCATS ( Wolfgang Reitherman , 1970 )	Walt Disney's 20th animated feature was the last one to be greenlighted by the great man himself ( he died in late 1966 ) and is not generally considered to be among their very best output . The main problem is that , on the surface , the film seems merely to be the feline version of either LADY AND THE TRAMP ( 1955 ) or 101 DALMATIONS ( 1961 ) both of which are certainly more beloved by fans Even so , being both an animation and cat lover , I dug this reasonably bouncy concoction in which a pampered female cat ( voiced by Eva Gabor ) and her three little kittens are thrown out onto the streets of Paris by a wealthy lady ( Hermione Baddeley ) ' s greedy butler . Luckily , they meet a streetwise alley cat ( Phil Harris ) who guides them on the journey back and are further aided along the way by a feline jazz band ( led by Scatman Crothers ) and two helpful and amiably dopey dogs ; meanwhile at home , Edgar the butler celebrates his supposed inheritance and the mouse and the horse do their bit to help their fellow feline pets . Legendary entertainer Maurice Chevalier was whisked back from retirement to sing the title song ( which includes a verse in French ) and Scatman's band indulge in a breezy number " Ev'rybody Wants To Be A Cat " .
A Bloody Spear On Mount Fuji ( Tomu Uchida , 1955 )	I had never heard of Japanese director Tomu Uchida prior to reading about a retrospective held at London's National Film Theatre in December 2007 but , my interest ignited , I quickly landed this film in my collection . What we have here , essentially , is a tragicomic road movie : the narrative ? about a pilgrimage to the titular landmark by a disgraced samurai ( prone to violent drunken binges ) and his two dim-witted warrior-servants ? rambles amiably along in a leisurely and mostly droll vein until the unexpected and electrifyingly bloodthirsty finale . Through the striking use of sweeping camera movement and fast cutting , we are introduced to the trio of protagonists and the major supporting characters right from the very first sequence ; the comic highlight comes around the midpoint when an abandoned boy ( who joined their party after befriending the lancer ) disrupts a solemn tea-drinking ceremony enacted by three noblemen in an open field while naturally relieving himself in the nearby bushes . The second half grows more somber with the episodes of the capture of a notorious tattooed thief disguised as a pilgrim and an old man forced to sell off his daughter as collateral for a measly loan . Nothing however really prepares us for the remarkably ' clumsy ' climax ( this is no choreographed ballet of violence ) in which the lancer single-handedly dispatches the men who had killed his master merely for daring to drink publicly with his subordinate . It is also worth mentioning that several distinguished Japanese film-makers ( including Yasujiro Ozu ) helped in the making of this film which was Uchida's comeback after a decade spent in China .
" GOIN ' TO TOWN " ( Alexander Hall , 1935 )	This was the first Mae West movie to appear after the introduction of the Production Code the year before and , given the generally held belief that this factor harmed her successive films , I was expecting to be let down by this one ; indeed , while rarely scaling the heights of her best work , I found it to be a very engaging and entertaining vehicle with a fair amount of good lines . Amusingly , this film – with the word " town " in its title – starts out way out West while West’s GO WEST YOUNG MAN ( 1936 ) starts out in a rural setting and goes rustic gradually ! Interestingly enough , it features a vivid horse-racing sequence and another hilarious vignette in which West dabbles in opera singing : playing Delilah ( " the only woman barber who made good " ) , she is prone to call out to her Samson , " Come ‘ere , Sammy ! " ; it’s worth mentioning here that The Marx Brothers also lampooned just these very diverse subjects for their first two big-budget MGM extravaganzas ! The plot is quite busy , especially for a 70 minute movie , with a handful of besotted males vying for the hand of wealthy oil tycoon West ( who marries – and is subsequently widowed – twice during the course of the film , even if she is clearly chasing after her no-nonsense British employee Paul Cavanagh who is really an aristocrat ! ) . Initially , I thought that Cavanagh was a curious choice for her leading man but , ultimately , he acquits himself rather well under the circumstances , and Gilbert Emery is a welcome familiar face as West’s Pygmalion ( once she decides to take on the upper crust of society in her bid to win Cavanagh’s affections ) ; incidentally , this portion of the film bears more than a passing resemblance to George Raft’s predicament in Mae West’s debut feature , NIGHT AFTER NIGHT ( 1932 ) !
THE LAST DETAIL ( Hal Ashby , 1973 )	I found this film – which I had long wanted to watch , considering its reputation – an original , sharply observed but slightly overrated comedy-drama . Shot in a variety of American cities , the narrative tracks the journey of two sailors ordered to escort a third to a long-term jail sentence for a minor crime and , finding him young and inexperienced , decide to give the boy an education in life prior to incarceration . There are excellent performances all around : Jack Nicholson was still a year away from becoming a star , but all his various mannerisms are already in place ; Otis Young , in his one important role , is fine as Nicholson’s partner / conscience ; Randy Quaid is likable and affecting as the ‘gentle giant’ figure . The supporting cast , then , is peppered with established character actors and newcomers – Clifton James and Luana Anders ( in the former category ) , Carol Kane , Michael Moriarty , Nancy Allen and Gilda Radner ( in the latter ) . Despite its deliberate seediness ( and over-abundance of foul language for the time , which kept it from being greenlighted for a couple of years ! ) , the film is filled with memorable detail – as well as being funny and poignant at the right moments .
THE LAST OF SHEILA ( Herbert Ross , 1973 )	I had always been intrigued by this all-star whodunit with a Hollywood background and a script written by two celebrities ( musician Stephen Sondheim and actor Anthony Perkins ) who happened to be puzzle aficionados in real life . However , over the years , I kept missing out on Italian TV broadcasts of the film because I wanted to catch it in the original language ? and , now , I did ! While I have to say that I wasn't that much taken with it at first ? due to its unavoidably chic 70s look ? once the mind games and the murders began , it became a lot of fun ? with multiple plot twists that kept one guessing till the very end ! Unfortunately , the audio on the Warners DVD was a bit too low for my tastes ? since this is definitely a film where attention must be paid at all times , otherwise a pivotal clue might be missed ( in fact , I'm sure a second viewing would lend greater appreciation of the various plot nuances ? which come thick and fast , particularly in the denouement ) . Like I said , the mystery is quite convoluted yet incredibly clever ? as the games soon turn deadly , and the yacht's list of passengers starts getting smaller . . . Anyway , this is basically " And Then There Were None " set on a boat : a group of people ( all of them involved in the movie business ) are assembled together , ostensibly , for a week of fun in the sun ? however , each has something to hide about his or her past , and they're all somehow under suspicion of being behind the hit-and-run accident which killed the wife of their host ( James Coburn ) ! All the actors are well cast but the best of them , to my mind , are James Mason ( who brings his customary wit to the proceedings as a film director ) , Richard Benjamin ( as a frustrated scriptwriter who purports to adopt his creative talents towards solving the mystery ) and , from the ladies ' corner , Dyan Cannon . For the record , the rest of the victims ? er ? cast is made up of Raquel Welch , Ian McShane and Joan Hackett , while Yvonne Romain features very briefly as the titular character .
SYMPATHY FOR LADY VENGEANCE ( Chan-wook Park , 2005 )	This turned out to be even more elaborate than Park's OLDBOY ( 2003 ) but , ultimately , not as good or as involving . For one thing , all the various characters are repellent and there is much irrelevant detail about the leading lady's prison comrades ! As had been the case with OLDBOY , the violence is depicted in an extremely graphic fashion - which one can't quite associate with the director's meek-looking self ( I was lucky to attend a Press Conference he gave , along with fellow directors Takashi Miike and Fruit Chan , for their compendium film THREE . . . EXTREMES during the 2004 Venice Film Festival ) ! Still , the visual style deployed by the director is arresting enough and the film's centerpiece - a lengthy scene revolving around a child murderer's come-uppance at the hands of relatives of his various victims - is appropriately distressing . The film is the concluding segment in a loose trilogy which also comprises OLDBOY and the similarly-titled SYMPATHY FOR MR . VENGEANCE ( 2002 ) . I haven't yet caught up with the latter and , in fact , JSA ( 2000 ) is the only other Park film I've watched . . .
THE LONG GOODBYE ( Robert Altman , 1973 )	Having only previously watched this controversial Raymond Chandler adaptation via a trimmed , Italian-dubbed print several years ago , I was keen to reacquaint myself with it through MGM's SE DVD especially since it's generally thought of as one of Altman's major films ; it's a shame , though , that after having had it in my collection for a couple of months , I was finally prompted to give it a spin following the sad news of Altman's death . Anyway , the character of Philip Marlowe is one of my favorites in all of literature and film so I'm always on the lookout for fresher perspectives on the private investigator . Still , Elliott Gould's characterization could hardly be any more different to Chandler's original vision or to Humphrey Bogart's definitive film portrayal in Howard Hawks ' THE BIG SLEEP ( 1946 ) which , incidentally , is the greatest Film Noir ever in my book . Since a maverick like Altman was helming the film , one hardly expected him to stick to a conventional portrait but , understandably , having Marlowe inexplicably displaced to the liberalized 1970s era swarming with long-haired guys , pot-smoking chicks , slickly-dressed heels and vicious mobsters with body-builder thugs ( one of them an uncredited Arnold Schwarzenegger ! ) was too much to take for 1940s Marlowe fans . . . which is all the more incredible when one realizes that the screenplay for this film was written by none other than THE BIG SLEEP's co-writer , Leigh Brackett ! Having said that , however , Gould is clearly in top form here and further confirms that very few directors made more inspired use of him in their films , witness the amusing opening sequence where he tries to pass off a different brand of cat food to his feline pet because he is all out of its favorite Courry brand ! Altman even introduces a parking lot attendant adept at mimicry and his Barbara Stanwyck impersonation from , appropriately enough , Billy Wilder's DOUBLE INDEMNITY ( 1944 ) , is a hoot . While the film has a few other notable qualities - Vilmos Zsigmond's inventive camera-work , John Williams ' playful score and remarkable performances from Hollywood veteran Sterling Hayden ( as an alcoholic writer on the skids ) and film director Mark Rydell ( as a mobster who thinks nothing of shattering a glass bottle on his girlfriend's face to prove to Marlowe that he means business ) - eventually the film is far less entertaining than previous Marlowe outings which might well be the result of a much weaker storyline , the relative lack of the trademark hard-boiled dialogue and the glacial presence of Nina Van Pallandt which oozes very little of the sensuality so vital in a supposed femme fatale . Ultimately , the film is much more rewarding for Altman fans than the casual viewer especially when taking into account the director's other ingenious genre revisits of the 1970s - IMAGES ( 1972 ; the Horror film ) , THIEVES LIKE US ( 1974 ; Gangster ) , BUFFALO BILL AND THE INDIANS OR , SITTING BULL'S HISTORY LESSON ( 1976 ; Western ) and QUINTET ( 1979 ; Sci-Fi ) - which , despite all being worthwhile or interesting works at the very least , merely served to alienate him further from the Hollywood establishment for a prolonged period of time until that early 1990s renaissance came about .
Texas ACROSS THE RIVER ( Michael Gordon , 1966 )	I had missed out on this when it was shown as a weekday matinée ' on Italian TV ages ago ; while not particularly outstanding , it's a thoroughly engaging ( and attractively shot , mostly in exteriors ) Western spoof with an amiable and willing cast led by Dean Martin ( typically relaxed playing a Texan cattleman ) , Alain Delon ( handsome and charming as a Spanish aristocrat ) , Rosemary Forsyth ( her Southern belle is delightful ) , Tina Marquand ( a cute Indian squaw ) and Joey Bishop ( in the role of Martin's wisecracking " Kronk " sidekick ) . Though the latter is nominally entrusted with carrying the film's comic relief , the other redskins ( " Comanche " ) actually provide the funniest moments ? especially the antics of the chief's inept son ( trying at one point to shoot a flaming arrow , he contrives to set his Dad's feathered cap on fire ! ) . Also notable is a scene in which a medicine man alienated in tracking heroes ' moves from afar bumps his head against a tree branch , not to mention the amusing charging command of the cavalry unit after Delon ? who's accused of murder ? which is so muddled that not even all the soldiers themselves are able to comprehend it ! The film leads to a pretty good climax ? actually redolent of RED RIVER ( 1948 ) ? as Martin and Delon about to engage one another in duel can't even agree on whether to do it the official way ( stand back to back , walk ten paces in opposite directions , then turn and shoot ) or Western-style ( face each other at opposite ends of the street , walk closer and then draw ) . However , the girls ( Delon had been engaged to marry Forsyth but , in the meantime , she's caught Martin's attention ? which he tries to turn to his advantage by keeping his fever going , after being shot with an arrow , for three days straight ? while the Spaniard has Marquand , whom he has saved from certain death , gushing over him ) have it out between themselves , though it's actually a ruse to put a stop to the intended showdown between their respective men . Delon is subsequently tried and convicted ( with judge and defense counsel being the victim's brothers ! ) , but Forsyth contrives to demonstrate how it was all an accident ; to cap everything , oil is struck soon after while a grave is being dug for the aristocratic Spaniard ! Curiously enough , just as SKIN GAME ( 1971 ) ? the comic Western I preceded this with ? the film features an incongruous but agreeable lounge score ( by DeVol ) . In conclusion , another Dean Martin Western I own but have yet to watch also hinges on a dynamite star combo i . e . FIVE CARD STUD ( 1968 ) with Robert Mitchum ? as does , for that matter , ROUGH NIGHT IN JERICHO ( 1967 ; with George Peppard ) which I might also be able to get my hands on in the not-so-distant future ( for the record , I'm not familiar with this one either ) .
THE FACE OF ANOTHER ( Hiroshi Teshigahara , 1966 )	While the Japanese New Wave may not have been as well-known or as influential a movement as the French Nouvelle Vague , it yielded a mass of talented , independent and original film-makers spearheaded by Kaneto Shindo - of ONIBABA ( 1964 ) fame - and including Shohei Imamura , Yasuzo Masumura , Toshio Matsumoto , Nagisa Oshima , Masahiro Shinoda , Seijun Suzuki , Hiroshi Teshigahara and Koji Wakamatsu . Until now , like most film buffs , I had only known Hiroshi Teshigahara through his one undisputed international critical success , WOMAN IN THE DUNES ( 1964 ) , which had also made him the first ever Asian film-maker to be nominated for a Best Direction Academy Award . Even so , I have long cherished the thought of watching more of his admittedly small oeuvre ( just 8 feature films in 40 years ! ) and now , thanks to the U . K . ' s " Masters Of Cinema " DVD label , I caught up with the films Teshigahara made just before and after tasting international success . As a result of WOMAN IN THE DUNES , Teshigahara was here allowed to use for the first time in his career two of Japan's biggest box-office stars of the time , Tatsuya Nakadai , a fixture of the second half of Kurosawa's career and Machiko Kyo , star of RASHOMON ( 1950 ) and UGETSU ( 1953 ) ; the two stars from WOMAN IN THE DUNES , then - Eiji Okada and Kyoko Kishida - also appear in supporting roles . As with most of Teshigahara's films , Toru Takemitsu provides the impeccable musical accompaniment , suitably sinister and majestically lush as the occasion requires ; Takemitsu also puts in an appearance in a lengthy bar sequence towards the middle of the film . The story , based as were Teshigahara's first four movies , on famed Japanese writer and friend Kobo Abe's novel , deals with a businessman who , after losing his facial features in an unspecified laboratory explosion , resorts to plastic surgery and gradually starts to question his identity . The fact that he specifically asks that his new face be molded from that of a complete stranger turns out to be a fateful one : it isn't enough to fool two perceptive females who cross his path - his own wife , whom he seduces under his new identity , shattering his new-found confidence by stating that she was aware of him being her husband all along and the crazed daughter of a hotel manager ( the amiable Kurosawa regular Minoru Chiaki ) to which he relocates after the surgery recognizes the new tenant as the heavily-bandaged one who had previously lived there ; in fact , the arrival at the hotel of the man in his different identities is filmed the same way with the exact incidents occurring each time . The subject matter cannot but elicit comparisons with other films dealing with facial transplants and loss of identity and , in my case , I was instantly reminded of Georges Franju's EYES WITHOUT A FACE ( 1959 ; one of my favorite films ) and John Frankenheimer's SECONDS ( 1966 ) . Although I'd say that both these films are even better at hitting their targets , Teshigahara's film is certainly worthy of such company and , in retrospect , what differentiates it from the others is its boldly cerebral take on the material , complete with shots of such utter strangeness that they remain effortlessly imprinted in one¡¦s mind : the very first shot of the laboratory full of inanimate limbs floating in vats of water , the introduction of the main character in a sequence shot in X-ray vision ( ! ) , the eerie , inexplicable shot of the laboratory seemingly engulfed by an over-sized bundle of hair floating in space , a supporting " fictional " character ( more on this later ) struck by a deadly ray of atomic radiation when he draws the curtains to look upon the scene of his sister's suicide and , perhaps best of all , the haunting night-time finale in which the main character and his doctor are surrounded by a horde of " faceless " people . It has to be said that THE FACE OF ANOTHER , as with a lot of post-war Japanese cinema , is informed by the traumatic WWII atomic bomb attacks on Nagasaki and Hiroshima . The protagonist apparently goes to watch one such film at the cinema ( an occurrence given away by a short but sudden change in aspect ratio from full-frame to widescreen ) : it deals with a facially-scarred young woman who , after having an apparently incestuous relationship with her brother , drowns herself . The story of that film is incongruously but seamlessly interspersed within the main narrative , serving as a parallel commentary on the increasingly ambivalent actions of the Tatsuya Nakadai character . One is hopeful for an English-subtitled DVD release of Hiroshi Teshigahara's fourth and last collaboration with Kobo Abe , THE MAN WITHOUT A MAP ( 1968 ) , somewhere down the line . . .
BLACKBOARD JUNGLE ( Richard Brooks , 1955 )	This was the first of two films I watched as a tribute to Glenn Ford , one of Hollywood's most likable and underrated stars . BLACKBOARD JUNGLE was considered a landmark film in its treatment of juvenile delinquency in public schools and also for being the first Hollywood production to feature a rock'n'roll soundtrack ( the most memorable being Bill Haley and The Comets ' " Rock Around The Clock " ) . In itself , well enough made and generally compelling - but it has dated quite a bit ( the would-be toughness of the kids too often appears cornball and tame rather than intimidating at this juncture ) and , coming from MGM , its superficiality was inevitable ( the soft underbelly of the whole enterprise being most evident in the relationship between mild-mannered but tenacious schoolteacher Ford and troubled but talented student Sidney Poitier ) ! That said , much of the acting still holds up - Ford , cynical veteran Louis Calhern , naive jazz-lover Richard Kiley among the adults , Poitier and especially unrepentant bullying criminal Vic Morrow among the kids . The scenes of violence , too ( particularly an attempted rape of a shapely schoolteacher and the climactic classroom ' showdown ' ) - which must have seemed startling at the time - remain undeniable highlights . Even if only surviving minor cast and crew members ( or their relatives , in the case of Glenn Ford's son ) are involved in the Audio Commentary , it made for a surprisingly engaging listen and was especially perceptive in noting how Ford's role ( and haircut ! ) here basically defined the rest of his acting career as a leading man . The film can be seen as forming an unofficial Juvenile Delinquency trilogy with two other seminal films of the period : Laslo Benedek's THE WILD ONE ( 1953 ) and Nicholas Ray's REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE ( 1955 ) both , of course , featuring iconic performances from Marlon Brando and James Dean respectively . Furthermore , BLACKBOARD JUNGLE was more or less remade ( and quite admirably , too ) in a Swinging London setting as TO SIR , WITH LOVE ( 1967 ) - with Sidney Poitier now taking on the role of the harassed schoolteacher !
HORSES ' COLLARS ( Clyde Bruckman , 1935 )	This is another wonderful Three Stooges short , despite the meaningless title . Here , the boys are Pinkerton detectives sent out West to help an innocent girl being bullied by a ruffian – a premise which actually anticipates Laurel & Hardy’s classic WAY OUT WEST ( 1937 ) , and even includes a similar scene in which The Stooges attempt to retrieve an important document from the villain’s safe ! Gags include the boys playing tough guys at the saloon – where they inadvertently set the sheepskin trousers of the baddie’s henchman on fire – and taking to the dance-floor in a ruse to get at the piece of paper jealously guarded by the heavy inside his wallet . Still , the best moments of the film involve Curley going into a raging fit – a similar affliction to the one he had in PUNCH DRUNKS ( 1934 ) – at the sight of a mouse ( asked why , Moe replies " That’s because his father was a rat ! " ) which he’s only able to get out of by being force fed a piece of cheese ( " Moe , Larry . . . cheese ! " ) .
SUPERMAN RETURNS ( Bryan Singer , 2006 )	For being the second most expensive film ever made , there's far less action than I was expecting , even though it does deliver the goods with a couple of spectacular sequences . Having said that , the film's rather excessive 150 minute length goes by fairly fast without the romantic and soul-searching interludes bogging it down . In contrast to Richard Donner's by-now classic 1978 cinematic adaptation ( to which this is the second " official " sequel ) with its roster of legendary Hollywood veterans , great character actors and upcoming stars , this new version has only 3 notable actors ( Kevin Spacey , Frank Langella and Eva Marie Saint ) and the film's central characters are regrettably far too young ( looking barely out of their teenage years ) to be entirely believable . At least , Brandon Routh's uncanny resemblance to definitive Superman Christopher Reeve makes it easier to empathize with him ( although Reeve was more handsome ) ; on the contrary , Kate Bosworth's stiff Lois Lane compares unfavorably with Margot Kidder's charismatic and ballsy ' original ' . Kevin Spacey seemed an ideal choice for Lex Luthor but , regrettably , his cold characterization makes one yearn for Gene Hackman's expert multi-layered essaying of the misguided evil genius . Indeed , in contrast to most past comic-strip adaptations , the villainous element is where this film unfortunately falls far short of its peers with Parker Posey exuding none of Valerie Perrine's tantalizing sensuality and the idiotic pomposity of Ned Beatty ( as Hackman's comic foil ) is replaced by a few anonymous henchmen ! Warners wisely decided to utilize John Williams ' memorable Superman theme rather than opting for a newer incarnation ( as well as keep the stylish title design ) , but the much-touted usage of Marlon Brando outtakes from the aborted Richard Donner version of SUPERMAN II ( 1980 ; finally coming to DVD in November ! ) is unremarkable and , in any case , consists simply of audio portions . In the end , after a series of false starts in the 1990s which involved both Tim Burton and James Cameron , the new Superman movie has arrived and my verdict ( on a first-viewing basis ) is that it's a solid and well-crafted popcorn blockbuster with a dash of characterization typical of more recent superhero fare - but perhaps not the best of its kind ( or even the Superman series ) as has been suggested . . .
THE BIG COMBO ( Joseph H . Lewis , 1955 )	Despite a bland title , this is a top-notch film noir , one of Lewis ' best in fact , with a first-rate cast ( Cornel Wilde , Richard Conte , Brian Donlevy , Lee Van Cleef , Earl Holliman , Ted De Corsia , Robert Middleton , Jay Adler , John Hoyt , etc . ) , a typically hard-boiled script courtesy of Philip Yordan and some memorably violent scenes for its time ( police officer Wilde's torture at the hands of gangster Conte , Donlevy's " silent " demise by Conte's henchmen Van Cleef and Holliman , Conte punching his moll , Jean Wallace , in the face , etc . ) ; cinematographer John Alton and composer David Raksin lend their expert support . I had first seen this one some 15 years ago when I caught it one afternoon , quite by accident , on Italian TV and was very impressed by it ; I'm glad that my re-acquaintance with it via Alpha's DVD proved to be equally satisfying .
HANDS ACROSS THE TABLE ( Mitchell Leisen , 1935 )	Carole Lombard was one of Hollywood's finest comediennes ; she worked best when she was backed by an equally strong male lead ? in this case , it's Fred MacMurray , with whom she must have clicked because they appeared together three more times ( two of these films , THE PRINCESS COMES ACROSS [ 1936 ] and TRUE CONFESSION [ 1937 ] , are also included in Universal's 2-Disc Lombard collection and I should get to them in the next couple of days ) . The comic style of the film falls somewhere between sophisticated and screwball : lavish settings and stuffy aristocratic characters are mingled with the often zany working-class ( keeping their chin up during the Depression but , in Lombard's case , harboring a desire to marry into money ) ; the title refers to her job as a manicurist . Typically for this type of film , when she sets her eyes on a gentleman of title ? who's young and handsome to boot ( MacMurray ) ? he turns out to be engaged to an even wealthier lady ( Astrid Allwyn ) , because he's himself penniless ! Running after her ( the term is put lightly here , since he's actually wheelchair-bound ) is an ex-air ace played by the actor who cornered the market around this time in " Other Man " roles , Ralph Bellamy , who's naturally got a lot of money and thinks of Lombard as a perfect match ? but his love goes unrequited . The mixture includes slapstick , wisecracks , romance , drama and even a bit of sentimentality ( Lombard spends a good part of the last act sobbing ) . Still , as always in these more innocent times ( where , for instance , a woman has to turn around when the man she's living with ? albeit platonically , for the moment ? is about to wear his pants ! ) , none of the characters are really unsympathetic ? so that we don't even despise the jilted lovers , who are understanding enough to know when to give up . The ending of the film is a classic : Lombard and MacMurray cause a traffic jam to look for a missing penny on which they've staked the course of their future ! Appearing in one scene as a prospective boyfriend of Lombard's ( whom MacMurray scares away ) is future Preston Sturges regular William Demarest . The film was shown in the early 1990s on late-night Italian TV in its original language with forced Italian subtitles , but I had missed it ( the same thing is true for the afore-mentioned THE PRINCESS COMES ACROSS and MacMurray's other film with Leisen ? TAKE A LETTER , DARLING [ 1942 ] ) ; I did , however , acquire some of the director's other great work this way ? most of which is , regrettably , still unavailable on DVD . . .
CARRY ON UP THE JUNGLE ( Gerald Thomas , 1970 )	This ( surprisingly ) consistently funny spoof of the Tarzan jungle epics from the " Carry On " gang is one of their better efforts I've watched so far : the rude , crude jokes come flying by with a welcome regularity and the old reliables - Sidney James ( as boozing big game hunter Bill Boosey ) , Joan Sims ( as an aristocratic lady who lost her husband and son in Africa many years earlier ) and Charles Hawtrey ( as the latter's husband who has spent his time in Africa lording it over a bevy of jungle girls ) - enter gleefully into the spirit of the thing ; the same goes for occasional participants in the series who join them here like Frankie Howerd ( as the improbable leader of the expedition ) , Kenneth Connor ( as a lecherous botanist ) and Bernard Bresslaw ( as the native guide ) . Among the comic highlights are a snake sliding into Ms . Sims ' undergarments at dinner-time ( which she mistakes for the attentions of each of her male pretenders ) , the various bedtime romps which also involve Sims ' son ( the Tarzan figure ) and a huge gorilla , James ' shotgun ' standing up ' at attention on seeing Sims taking a bath , Tarzan's various catastrophic attempts at leaping from one tree to another , his learning the English language and numeric system ( which invariably stops at number 6 , since he mistakes it for ' sex ' ) , etc . The second half with Hawtrey sags slightly and the luscious Valerie Leon is not put to best advantage ; amusingly , during this section , whenever our heroes are in peril , a classic musical cue from the 1960s " Spider-Man " animated series is heard on the soundtrack ! All in all , as I said earlier , the result is generally engaging and quite enjoyable .
VIP : MY BROTHER SUPERMAN ( Bruno Bozzetto , 1968 )	The unprecedented success of Bozzetto's WEST AND SODA ensured a more ambitious follow-up with the aid of American financiers . Biting the hand that fed him ( Bozzetto had primarily been involved in making animated commercials ) , he came up with a sharply satirical narrative about the perils inherent in incessant commercial spoon-feeding to Italian TV audiences . Supervip is the latest in a long line of strapping superheroes while Minivip is his inept ' accidental ' twin brother ; the latter ? short , bespectacled and saddled with an inferiority complex ? is a splendid caricature of Woody Allen . During a psychiatrist-imposed vacation , the latter stumbles onto a massive brainwashing conspiracy instigated by Happy Betty , the head of a chain of supermarkets , intent on controlling the worldwide market through missiles lodged into her customers ' brain that turn them into compulsive buyers ! Every superhero has to have a sweetheart : the intrepid red-headed Lisa is Supervip's girl while the diminutive Nervustrella is the one that loves Minivip in spite of himself ; conversely , Happy Betty's minions include a strongman dubbed " The Colonel " and the pint-sized , monocle-sporting Schultz . The film is driven by a superb song score courtesy of Franco Godi that includes a mournful lament by Happy Betty's imprisoned , unsuccessful experiment subjects and a climactic production number performed by the villains themselves when hoist in their own petards . Comic highlight : the " day in the life " demonstration of Happy Betty's assembly-line workers .
CARRY ON CABBY ( Gerald Thomas , 1963 )	This is another solid entry in the popular series which , again , recalls earlier classics of British comedy – such as the Ealing and Boulting Brothers films . Kenneth Williams’ presence is missed here : apparently , he turned down the role of the shop steward ( probably influenced by Peter Sellers’ similar , award-winning characterization in I’M ALL RIGHT , JACK [ 1959 ] and eventually played by Norman Chappell ) because he felt the script was substandard – I disagree and , in fact , Talbot Rothwell became the series’ official writer from this point on ! Joan Sims is also conspicuous by her absence ( the " Carry On " stalwart’s typical role is played here by the slimmer Liz Fraser – incidentally , also a cast member of JACK ) . Sid James , however , is clearly in control – with Hattie Jacques as his female counterpart ; even Kenneth Connor and Charles Hawtrey’s characters feel subsidiary here , the film being heavier on plot than the previous series outings I’ve just watched , though both get their big scene ( more on this later ) . The narrative concerns Jacques’ elaborate way of dealing with husband James’ slacking attentions : he’s a cab-service owner and totally absorbed in his work so , unbeknownst to him , she contrives to open a rival business – but with the advantage of young and attractive women drivers ! Connor is James’ sidekick ( involved with Fraser , tending bar at the cab-driver’s café ) who , at one point , appears in drag when he’s made to infiltrate the ‘enemy camp’ ( as part of a plan by James to get at the competition ) ; Hawtrey is an accident-prone novice driver ( his ‘baptism of fire’ is unsurprisingly fraught with disaster ) ; Jim Dale appears in his first " Carry On " as well , in a bit as an expectant father who takes cabbies James and Connor ‘on a ride’ and causes the former to miss his anniversary celebration ! While there’s some tit-for-tat routines between them ( the women – knowledgeable of the fact that the men have intercepted their radio signals – deliberately give out fake addresses , while James & Co . show their force by tampering with the vehicles driven by the ladies . . . except that the latter still get the upper hand , because their passengers are all-too-willing to lend a helping hand ! ) , the companies finally get together when one of Jacques’ cabs – with her , Fraser and the girls’ payroll inside – is abducted by a gang of crooks . All the various vehicles set out in co-ordinated pursuit and manage to corner the ‘stray’ cab in open-country ; the final gag , then , sees Hawtrey driving James’ car into a tree – so that the boss has no alternative but to hail a cab for himself !
HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE ( Hayao Miyazaki , 2004 )	Prior to this , I had only watched two of Miyazaki's celebrated animated features - PRINCESS MONONOKE ( 1997 ) and SPIRITED AWAY ( 2001 ) , though when I was in Hollywood recently I missed out on TCM's retrospective of his work - and , as with those films , HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE ( which , incidentally , I had failed to catch on the big screen when it premiered during the 2004 Venice Film Festival , due to all the shows being sold-out ! ) is a great showcase of the Japanese master's visionary genius ; however , it also features his typical faults - to me , at least - of presenting an over-ambitious ( and overly weird ) plot line which , due to its excessive length , tends to overstay its welcome and ends up in being an overwhelming ( if not necessarily memorable ) visual experience ! As usual the detail is immaculate and the scale of the whole thing impressive - but what really holds the film together , for me , are the amiable anthropomorphic characters ( Turnip the Scarecrow , Calcifer the Fire Demon and Heen the Dog ) rather than the ' human ' leads , the villains , or even the elements of fantasy so prevalent in this particular film-maker's admittedly unique brand of art .
DECISION BEFORE DAWN ( Anatole Litvak , 1951 )	The presence of this prestigious but obscure war / espionage movie among the Academy Award nominees for the Best Picture of 1951 ? where it was up against such heavyweights as A PLACE IN THE SUN , QUO VADIS and A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE ? has always intrigued me . The film is certainly well-made and acted on the surface but , I suppose , what impressed most at the time was its being based on a real episode of WWII ( back then a mere 6 years away ) , it was shot among the actual German ruins and served as an introduction to two German actors ? Oskar Werner and Hildegard Knef ( billed here as Hildegarde Neff ) ? who would subsequently become internationally renowned film stars ; incidentally , I have just acquired two other espionage films the latter made around this time , DIPLOMATIC COURIER ( 1952 ; with Tyrone Power ) and THE MAN BETWEEN ( 1953 ; co-starring James Mason ) . Despite being third billed ( after Fox stalwarts Richard Basehart and Gary Merrill ) , Werner is the true protagonist of the film and he acquits himself superbly playing a meek medical soldier who , after seeing his comrade being pushed out the window to his death for passing disparaging comments on the Third Reich , decides to join the Allies by acting as their informer on the German Front ; a youthful but unmistakable Klaus Kinski appears very briefly as another prospective candidate for the job . During the course of the film , Werner attracts the affection of two women ? a French girl ( Dominique Blanchar ) stationed in the monastery being used as the Allied H . Q . and a German artiste ( Knef ) , sent by a suspicious , ultra-nationalistic German soldier he meets along the way to seduce him in his hotel room , but who eventually alerts Werner to his being watched . Merrill plays the sympathetic American superior officer while Basehart is the cynical communications official who accompanies Werner and an irascible German spy dubbed " Tiger " ( Hans Christian Blech ) into enemy territory . While accomplishing his mission of locating the new position of a German division that was being a thorn in the Allies ' side , Werner is briefly engaged as the personal assistant of a proud German Colonel with a heart condition ( a fine performance from O . E . Hasse ) and ultimately gives his life for the cause on a beach after being chased around the rubble-strewn streets of Germany .
NAUSICAA OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND ( Hayao Miyazaki , 1984 )	As with Miyazaki's other fantasies - such as CASTLE IN THE SKY ( 1986 ) and HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE ( 2004 ) - the film ( based on a graphic novel ) takes in a rather unwieldy and muddled narrative which goes on too long ! Needless to say , the animator's imagination is most evident in the epic-scale production design - and this is complemented by regular composer Joe Hisaishi's appropriately sweeping score ( inevitably fused with then-fashionable synthesizer sounds ) . As usual , we get a plethora of characters and factions - both human and anthropomorphic : still , while the heroine is fairly well-delineated ( if unexpectedly underclothed ! ) and the monsters typically impressive ( and revolting ) , her animal companion is severely under-used and the villains prove to be not all that interesting . In essence , what we get here is plenty of action , a touch of magic ( it's interesting how in all of Anime ' , children seem to posses some kind of power which places the fate of mankind in their hands ) and a plea for ecological preservation .
DARK WATERS { Director's Cut } ( Mariano Baino , 1994 )	I first heard about this film relatively recently through the Internet and , then , became even more interested in it when the now sadly defunct No Shame label announced two separate DVD releases ? a 1-Disc " Special Edition " and a Limited 2-Disc Set , with added supplements and even a replica of the powerful amulet depicted in the film ! While a friend of mine who had watched DARK WATERS in the past told me he had been underwhelmed by it , I knew it'd be hard for me to resist blind-buying the not inexpensive set ? especially after reading the generally positive reviews which began cropping up ( often accompanied by awesome-looking stills from the main feature ) . Even so , it took me a long time to finally sit down and ? as it eventually transpired ? dedicate a whole evening to the work of Mariano Baino ! Anyway , I was glad to see for myself ( please bear in mind that I'm not usually a fan of the modern style in horror ) that the hype surrounding this particular flick was indeed justified ? for this is surely one of the most audacious and impressive genre outings to emerge in the last two decades , even if the plot itself is derivative of several older ' classics ' . In fact , the cut-off and openly hostile community smacks of THE WICKER MAN ( 1973 ) ; the inquisitive female lead ( often dressed in red ) and the generally weird goings-on brought SUSPIRIA ( 1977 ) to mind ; the creepy girl featured in the flashbacks could well have strayed in from KILL , BABY ? KILL ! ( 1966 ) ; and the members of a religious order with their blind leader ( sinister-looking but eventually revealed to have benign intentions ) stems from THE SENTINEL ( 1977 ) . Besides , the film's overall look ? with full-size crosses fitted in candle-lit caverns , to where self-flagellating nuns habitually convene ? clearly owes a strong debt to ALUCARDA ( 1975 ) . Still , it all makes for a highly intriguing mélange of visceral thrills ( Lovecraftian monster , some instances of gore ? including depictions of cannibalism ) and mysticism ( the afore-mentioned amulet , a mystery from the heroine's past residing within a series of riddles ) ; dialogue is minimal as well ( which is just as well ? in view of the fact that the film was shot in English in the Ukraine with a multi-national cast and crew ) , and there are definite moments of lyricism throughout ( given its elemental and spiritual overtones ) . While rather drab-looking ? as opposed to the traditionally garish " Euro-Cult " style ( DARK WATERS came at the extreme tail-end of the trend ) ? and featuring a largely unobtrusive score , this austerity actually helps the essentially oppressive mood which permeates the film . The result , then , contains more than its share of haunting images : the line-up of nuns along the horizon carrying burning crosses , the grotesque figure of the crucified ' monster nun ' ( ! ) , Sister Sarah's revolting ' unclothed ' appearance as a half-human / half-beast at the climax , and the closing reveal of the heroine as the convent's new blind sentinel . With an elliptical narrative ( typified by the scene where the lead suddenly finds herself on the shore eating raw fish ) infused with symbolism and the deft juxtaposition throughout of image and sound ( a death in a blazing cabin intercut with a murderous attempt on Sister Sarah , or the association between children crying and the growling creature ) this is the kind of film which needs more than one viewing to fully appreciate ! At the end of the day , however , the evident low-budget of the production couldn't effectively cater to all the various themes conveyed in its over-ambitious script ? so that some plot points remain obscure ( such as where the mural painter apparently dwelling within the depths of the convent fits in the whole scheme of things ) , whereas the fact that the appearance of the creature is downplayed during the climax was probably forced on the film-makers rather than a deliberate decision on their part ? but these don't effect one's evaluation of the finished product in any significant way . Incidentally , the No Shame edition presents the film in a new director's cut ( running 92 minutes though , not 89 as listed ) which removes 7 minutes from the theatrical release version ; this footage is still included as deleted scenes ( even if it's perhaps the weirdest collection of outtakes that I've come across since , on several occasions , a mere number of frames were taken out of specific scenes ! ) . As I said at the start , I followed this viewing with three short subjects by Baino , which proved equally stylized ( and unpleasant ) ? making for a decidedly grim night ! I wish I had the time to delve into the other extras as well ? the two documentaries and the various commentaries ? as Baino seems to be a talent to watch , and I'd certainly like to know more about the main feature ( whose making was reportedly fraught with problems ) .
THE LOVE OF ZERO ( Robert Florey and William Cameron Menzies , 1927 )	The experimental nature of this fairytale-style short ( by a couple of notable craftsmen ) means that the technique on display swamps what little plot there is ? in fact , it was part of a DVD collection of American avant-garde films . In any case , we get a dapper-looking artist in love with a girl : she returns his affections , but is promised to someone else ; undaunted , he tries to impress another woman but she just laughs in his face ? after which he breaks down and is haunted by demons ! The film is actually intrinsically bizarre : not just in its marvelous CALIGARI-inspired Expressionist look , but the appearance and mannerisms of the lead character ( which are no less stylized ? particularly the speeded-up dance routine he occasionally engages in ) . The rest is made up of clever camera tricks which , though having little point in themselves , still manage to delight .
WEST AND SODA ( Bruno Bozzetto , 1965 )	A Christmas-time staple on Italian TV for years and only the third animated feature to emanate from Italy ( after 1949's THE SINGING PRINCESS and THE DYNAMITE BROTHERS ) . A delightful if patchy parody of the Western that is well-suited to the rough , stylized animation on display and featuring a handful of superbly realized and voiced characters ? particularly the belatedly introduced laconic gunfighter hero Johnny and the land-grabbing chief villain Cattivissimo . Also on hand are damsel-in-distress Clementina , her alcoholic dog and talking cows , red-headed saloon gal Esmeralda , Cattivissimo's fat and lean henchmen ( Ursus and Slim , respectively ) and assorted marauding Indians . Set to a fine Western-styled score by Giampiero Boneschi , one of the film's highlights comes towards the midpoint ( in a sequence drawn in silhouette ) where the complex-ridden Johnny receives the mother of all beatings in his first visit to the saloon .
THE DEATH OF A BUREAUCRAT ( Tomas Gutierrez Alea , 1966 )	Although I have consciously kept my foreign film viewing to a minimum during this Christmas season , I couldn't resist purchasing this one ( whose release on R2 DVD from Network came literally out of left field ) and watching it instantly , given its opening dedication to many an exponent of cinema ( more on this later ) . As far as I can recall , it also marks my introduction to Cuban cinema ? which , as can be surmised by the title , deals with the country's social structure ; considering the political situation of the time in which it was made , this is hardly a surprise ? but , what is unexpected is the fact that it treats the subject matter as black comedy ! The plot resolves itself in a succession of ironic developments with respect to the pension coming to the widowed wife of a veritable working-class hero ( his sculpting endeavors and unfortunate demise are depicted via a stylized animation sequence ) : to get it , she needs her husband's union card ? but his equally proletarian comrades had it buried with him as a symbolic gesture . Her milquetoast nephew , who's really the hero of the film , decides to have the body exhumed ? but , officially , two years have to pass before this can be legitimately done ; so , he hires two men to steal the body and then proposes to have it buried once more ? but , since there's no record of it having been exhumed in the first place , technically , this isn't possible either . And so on and so forth , with numerous episodes involving legal red tape ( which ought to bring a smile and a strong sense of empathy to anyone who has ever dealt with a government entity ) ? until the young man is literally driven to madness and murder ! The film , then , ends with the funeral of this other bureaucrat ? Going back to that dedication I mentioned earlier , the full text ( typed on screen along with the film's full credits at the very beginning and signed by the director ) reads thus : " The film is dedicated to Luis Bunuel , Oliver Hardy , Stan Laurel , Ingmar Bergman , Harold Lloyd , Akira Kurosawa , Orson Welles , Juan Carlos Tabio , Elia Kazan , Buster Keaton , Jean Vigo , Marilyn Monroe and all those who , in one way or another , have taken part in the film industry since the days of Lumiere . " This is no faint praise , either , as THE DEATH OF A BUREAUCRAT features a handful of Bunuelian dream sequences and a general mockery of Christian burial services ( one highly amusing little scene is when the nephew pilfers ice cubes for his drink from his aunt's supply ? who is forever breaking ice in order to preserve her husband's body ! ) ; a delightful tit-for-tat routine of wanton destruction occurring , of all places , at the cemetery ( and which even develops into a Laurel & Hardy-style custard pie fight ! ) ; and , at one point , we're also treated to some Harold Lloyd-type antics on a ledge when our hero finds himself locked inside an office building ! Director Tomas Gutierrez Alea is himself generally considered to be the finest Cuban film-maker and among his other works worth mentioning are THE TWELVE CHAIRS ( 1962 ; which is also available on R2 DVD from Network and the 1970 Mel Brooks version of which , incidentally , I've just acquired ) , MEMORIES OF UNDERDEVELOPMENT ( 1968 ) , THE LAST SUPPER ( 1976 ) and the Oscar nominated STRAWBERRY AND CHOCOLATE ( 1994 ) ; the local DVD shop has the latter available for rental and , as a result of this positive experience with Cuban cinema , I will certainly be giving it a spin one of these days ?
INSIDE MAN ( Spike Lee , 2006 )	This is only my third Spike Lee movie ( the others being DO THE RIGHT THING [ 1989 ] and MALCOLM X [ 1992 ] ) , but I'd say that it's his most atypical film to date - a very enjoyable and smartly-written thriller which , thankfully , does not take itself too seriously and besides features a good cast in fine form ( Denzel Washington and Jodie Foster , the latter cast against type , are particularly impressive ) . The throwback half-way through to MARATHON MAN ( 1976 ) territory is unexpected and not totally convincing , however , especially since Clive Owen's real motives are kept from the spectator . There's the occasional caper / police procedural cliché , too , to be sure - but , overall , the film manages to work around them in clever and original ways . Also , while the film deals with Washington's family life from time to time , it's mercifully left in the background and doesn't get in the way of the main plot . Lee's direction is needlessly flashy at times , but one can't really blame him for playing the Hollywood game when given a big budget and a specific genre to work in .
London After Midnight : The 2002 Reconstruction ( 1927 )	I enjoyed the reconstruction , for what it was . Of course , its sound remake - MARK OF THE VAMPIRE ( 1935 ) - is a very good indication of what London AFTER MIDNIGHT ( 1927 ) must have looked like . The plot is unbelievably contrived but let's not forget that the films adhere more to the style of ' old dark house ' thrillers , then in vogue , than the typical ' vampire ' film ( that said , Chaney's vampire make-up is terrific and I'd love to see it in action ! ) . It's interesting , however , to note how Browning was able to adapt himself with the times : in " London " the emphasis seems to be on grotesquerie ( witness also Edna Tichenor's death-like pallor ) , since the archetype of the sub-genre during the Silent era was obviously NOSFERATU ( 1922 ) ; when MARK came along , Browning went for a more streamlined look - a suave Lugosi abetted by a sexy Carol Borland - spearheaded by his own landmark take on the Stoker classic ! I also prefer the remake's change-of-setting ( Hungary instead of London ) and the blood-draining device to dispose of the victim ( rather than the conventional ' suicide ' of the original ) , thus giving credence - initially at least - to the vampires ' presence in the film in the first place !
MY NIGHT AT MAUD'S ( Eric Rohmer , 1969 )	Certainly among Rohmer's better work due , more than anything else , to his using top actors - as it's actually one of the film-maker's more cerebral efforts ; in fact , its relentless preoccupation with religion and morality makes it pretty heavy-going ( as much , I'd say , as Bunuel's THE MILKY WAY [ 1969 ] ) ! The plot , in itself , is pretty simple but - even in spite of rather murky black-and-white cinematography - it holds one's interest because the three main characters are so well written by Rohmer and enacted by Jean-Louis Trintignant ( such a consummate performer that he could virtually adapt to the style of any director ! ) , Francoise Fabian and Marie-Christine Barrault . Not being a great fan of Rohmer's , I opted to rent this one before deciding whether or not to buy Criterion's upcoming Box Set of his " Six Moral Tales " ( of which this is the third ) - even though I had previously watched LA COLLECTIONNEUSE ( 1971 ; actually shot in ' 67 ) , which didn't impress me , and CLAIRE'S KNEE ( 1970 ) , which I recall being quite good . . .
THE HOTEL NEW HAMPSHIRE ( Tony Richardson , 1984 )	At first , writer-director Richardson seems an odd choice here ? until one sees the jokey approach in action , redolent of his much earlier TOM JONES ( 1963 ) ; incidentally , despite being an American film , he brought along top exponents of the " British New Wave " such as cinematographer David Watkin and production / costume designer Jocelyn Herbert . Based on a celebrated satirical novel by John Irving ( author of THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP [ 1982 ] ? which I guess I should get to now ) , it garnered mixed reactions but I found it quite engaging apart from the occasional heavy-handedness ; that said , having read the source material for myself , I have to say that the film falls short of extracting its full potential . There is no real plot to speak of , but a plethora of oddball characters ? not just the central family ( among them Beau Bridges , Jodie Foster and Rob Lowe ? not to mention their compulsively farting dog [ ! ] ) but also Wallace Shawn as a cycle-riding Dr . Freud with a bear companion , Nastassja Kinski as the latter's ' replacement ' after it is killed ( ! ) and Amanda Plummer as a gawky teen dubbed " Miss Carriage " . The film touches on some potentially controversial subjects such as incest ( Lowe is obsessed with Foster ) , homosexuality ( of both sexes ) and rape ( Foster falls foul of Lowe's football buddies , led by a young Matthew Modine ? who actually plays two roles ! ) . The acting is uniformly good , with Foster and Kinski ( despite a limited role ) coming off best . Reportedly , the rock band Queen was supposed to contribute to the soundtrack - with the song ' Keep Passing The Open Windows ' ( a much-repeated phrase in the film ) eventually finding its way onto their album " The Works " from the same year .
Svengali ( 1931 )	I've only watched the film once ? by way of Roan's fine if not outstanding DVD - and this happened fairly recently . SVENGALI follows its source novel ( " Trilby " by George Du Maurier ) pretty closely , which is rare for horror film-adaptations of the 1930s . Apart from John Barrymore's appropriately mesmerizing leading performance ( here revisiting the genre after a whole decade ) , I recall one particularly amazing tracking shot demonstrating Svengali's hypnotic powers over Trilby , and there are even brief flashes of nudity ( remember this was a Pre-Code film , but also that our heroine is a model ) ! Barrymore followed SVENGALI with the thematically-similar THE MAD GENIUS ( 1931 ) but , unfortunately , I haven't had the opportunity to watch that one ?
PORCO ROSSO ( Hayao Miyazaki , 1992 )	This earlier Miyazaki is ( perhaps thankfully ) less ambitious in scope than his later and more renowned work but , as a result , it has a greater warmth with engaging leads and several lively action sequences at the service of a somewhat dreary plot . The story deals with a reckless Italian pilot who has mysteriously been turned into a pig after his comrades have all perished during a mission ; he still flies as a pig ( hence the title ) and spends his time chasing pirates of the air . The bulk of the narrative is taken up by the rivalry between Porco Rosso ( literally Crimson Pig ) and an American flier who wants to be a movie star ; this enmity involves Porco’s long-suffering bar hostess lover and his teenage female mechanic and which climaxes in a highly enjoyable aerial dogfight-cum-fistfight ending with both contestants black and blue ; the pirates of the air , who in the opening sequences are shown clumsily kidnapping 15 schoolchildren , are all in love with Porco’s girl and are eventually reformed by his mechanic’s charms . The film does have its more sober passages ( especially when , in one of its visual highlights , Porco is forced by the girl to reminisce about that fateful mission ) and even has a bittersweet ending – but it’s the overall genial tone which eventually endears it to the viewer .
THE RUTHLESS FOUR ( Giorgio Capitani , 1968 )	This is another good Spaghetti Western , one that even got a laudable appraisal in the " Leonard Maltin Film Guide " ? not to mention the seal of approval of our own Michael Elliott ! Actually , it's a character-driven piece ? with the action spread neatly throughout yet proficiently executed . Besides , it's exceedingly well cast : ageing American star Van Heflin is excellent in one of his last roles ; both Gilbert Roland ( himself a Hollywood veteran ) and especially George Hilton did their fair share of Spaghettis , but it's safe to assume that they were never better than here ; Klaus Kinski , then , has a typically enigmatic role for which he sports numerous eccentric ' costumes ' ( from preacher's garb to shades to a raincoat over his head and even a makeshift turban ! ) . Unfortunately , as had been the case with THE SPECIALIST ( 1969 ) , the copy I acquired ( English-dubbed this time around ) lapsed occasionally into a different language without the benefit of subtitles ? but , whereas I could more or less make out what was being said in French with respect to the Sergio Corbucci film , here it's in German ( even the print bears the title DAS GOLD VON SAM COOPER ) ! In any case , the narrative ? bringing an old-fashioned situation up-to-date , stylistically speaking ? deals with Heflin's striking gold and his attempt to find suitable partners ( his previous one had already tried to double-cross him ! ) that would help him extract the precious element : what he ends up with is an interesting bunch ? Hilton , the miner's former protégé ( who's not as clean-cut as Heflin seems to think ) ; the young man's domineering companion , Kinski ( who's actually quite subdued here ) ; and Roland , another old-timer ( who , bearing Heflin a personal grudge , will no doubt look out for him from being ' jumped ' by the others [ ! ] ? though he's ultimately revealed to have appointed a cowboy duo to shadow the ' expedition ' before they think , erroneously , of cutting in on the deal ) . Carlo Rustichelli's score is , again , more traditional than most genre efforts but robust nonetheless ; that said , it breaks into a semi-lounge piece more suited to a German " Krimi " during the scene in which Kinski drops some gear while ascending a mountain and has to be tied in order to go back down and retrieve it ( given that this is one of the scenes presented exclusively in German , could it be that the music was changed in that country ? ) ! The film was co-scripted by Fernando Di Leo ( a Spaghetti Western regular during this time but who never actually contributed to the genre after graduating to director ! ) and Augusto Caminito ( who , as a film-maker in his own right , would make a couple of pictures with Kinski towards the end of the actor's life ? including the little-seen GRANDI CACCIATORI [ 1988 ] , which I have in my " To Watch " pile of obscure " Euro-Cult " titles recorded off Italian TV ! ) . Curiously enough , co-producer Luciano Ercoli would also subsequently get to be a director ? proving a notable exponent of the Giallo form .
LI’L ABNER ( Melvin Frank , 1959 )	I first knew about this ( apart from Leslie Halliwell’s Film Guide ) via its poster in a bulky scrapbook of my father’s containing adverts from the time such films were released in Malta . It’s never been shown in my neck of the woods and , therefore , I had to wait till I got hold of the DVD to check it out ; despite not being a Musicals fan and the unappetizing backwoods milieu of the narrative , I’d always been interested in it – being based on a comic strip , it was bound to be stylized and filled with colorful characters ( with equally descriptive names ) . The songs are pretty good ( one of the best numbers is the girls’ plea to turn their men from narcissistic bodybuilders – including future " Euro-Cult " stalwart Gordon Mitchell ! – back into uncouth but amenable country-folk ) – though , once again , the dance sequences ( choreographed by Michael Kidd ) go on too long and cause the almost two-hour film to drag . As I said in my review of the earlier and lesser straight 1940 version , the plot is much more elaborate this time around – not only do we get an attempt to evacuate the community to make way for A-Bomb tests ( a nice touch of topicality ) but Abner , Marryin’ Sam ( Stubby Kaye ) and later many of the people of Dogpatch go to Washington to present the Government with an essential homegrown product ( the town had been deemed " the most useless in the U . S . A . " ) and then to save the naïve Abner from the clutches of megalomaniac General Bullmoose ( Howard St . John ) . Sexuality is even more to the fore here – with several great-looking and scantily-clad ladies ( Leslie Parrish as Daisy Mae , Carmen Alvarez as Moonbeam McSwine , Julie Newmar as Stupefyin’ Jones and , best of all , Stella Stevens as Bullmoose’s moll Appassionata von Climax ! ) . Incidentally , the loutish Earthquake McGoon is less of a grotesque this time around ; Abner’s parents , though , still look like they belong on another planet – also , Robert Strauss ( very popular around this time ) turns up under heavy ( make that filthy ) make-up as Daisy Mae’s opportunistic close relative , whereas Jerry Lewis does a very brief uncredited cameo as a dopey-looking character called Itchy McRabbit ! By the way , just as RED GARTERS ( 1954 ; a viewing of which preceded this ) , had characters constantly referring to " The Code Of The West " , the people of Dogpatch live by " The Code Of The Hills " . . .
BUG ( William Friedkin , 2006 )	I have to agree with Michael Elliott that this is one strange movie ! Admirably for a modern film , the director refrains from the temptation to open-up the narrative ( it's mostly set inside a single motel room ! ) . Despite Friedkin's typically probing camera , the emphasis is on the dialogue and the acting : the former is perceptive if not especially compelling during the first half ; again , the latter starts off as variable but becomes intense as the situation between the two protagonists spirals into paranoid hysterics . Ironically , just as the unrelated 1975 film BUG ( which I've just watched ) starts out one way and then goes off the rails into completely unexpected territory , the same is very much true in this case : while the initial romantic character drama ( which sees independent woman Ashley Judd torn between aggressive boyfriend Harry Connick Jr . and sweet-but-enigmatic acquaintance Michael Shannon ) provides its own tension , nothing could have prepared one for the psychological / conspiracy theory thriller it slowly evolves into ? with that amazing tinfoil-wrapped set and the bleakest of endings !
DR . AKAGI ( Shohei Imamura , 1998 )	Interesting if typically overlong multi-character drama with a wartime setting , about the exploits of an ageing and old-fashioned doctor ( whose diagnosis for all his patients is always the same : hepatitis ! ) in a fishing community . Several enjoyable vignettes along the way : the young prostitute who becomes the doctor's aide but continues in her clandestine profession against his better judgment ; the doctor's appearance at a Tokyo medical conference , in which he is moved to tears by the reception given him by the more illustrious colleagues present ; the girl hiding an injured soldier who has escaped from a P . O . W . camp , involving the doctor and several other people from the village ( who are later tortured by the authorities ) ; the girl hunting a blue whale , in emulation of her legendary fisherman father , at the film's surprising and strangely beautiful climax - after which she and the doctor witness the historic blast of the atom bomb ( which , to the latter appears in the form of an enlarged liver , a common trait of the dreaded hepatitis ! ) .
KILL , BABY ? KILL ! ( Mario Bava , 1966 )	One of the Bava films which until recently had been difficult to catch in satisfactory prints , this is quite possibly the ultimate in Gothic horror cinema ( to which director Luchino Visconti famously gave a standing ovation on its premiere ) . Presenting a startling concept of a creepy little girl willing terrified villagers to a horrible death ( though the violence itself is quite subtle ) , this is essentially a mood piece ? with the lead characters ' disorientation often mirroring that of the viewer himself ( for instance during Erika Blanc's remarkable hallucination sequence , while descending into outright surrealism with the legendary scene in which Giacomo Rossi-Stuart chases his own doppelganger and then mysteriously emerges outside the grounds of Villa Graps ) . Incidentally , the surname of Blanc's character is Schuftan ? perhaps a nod by former cinematographer Bava to renowned colleague Eugene Schufftan ? Some of the exposition and shock tactics ( Bava , like Jess Franco , has been criticized for his excessive use of the zoom ) seem a bit mechanical and the plot is , admittedly , somewhat thin ? resolving itself with scene after scene in which hero Rossi-Stuart scours the village or prowls the sinister , decaying villa . Characterization is still evident , however : Rossi-Stuart himself , interestingly , recalls Dana Andrews ( and even looks a bit like him ! ) in NIGHT OF THE DEMON ( 1957 ) ? a practical man of science being forced to reassess his inherent skepticism toward the supernatural ; the witch played by Fabienne Dali ' resorts to bizarre rites ( such as inflicting serious bodily harm on a sympathetic village girl marked for death or embedding silver coins into victims ' hearts as a protection against evil ) to fight the curse ; and Giana Vivaldi as the disheveled and , literally , haunted Baroness Graps ( the revenge-seeking manifestations are revealed to be monsters from her own id , as in the Shakespeare-inspired classic sci-fi FORBIDDEN PLANET [ 1956 ] ) . Troy Howarth , in the " DVD Maniacs " review , perceptively describes how Bava manages to subvert genre conventions throughout the film ? the hero's presence is far from reassuring , whereas it's the witch ( typically a malevolent influence ) who eventually puts an end to the village curse . Her character is given a deep , almost masculine voice and shares an unlikely romance with bald-headed burgomaster Max Lawrence ( actually a pseudonym for the film's own producer , Luciano Catenacci ! ) ? this does , however , make of the witch's showdown with the Baroness / medium ( the former knowingly sacrificing her own life in the process ) the personal settling of a score . Ultimately , the film draws its lasting power from the emphasis it places on the characters ' raw emotions ( I've never been fond of any of the titles attached to it , though this aspect is at least clear in the original , OPERAZIONE PAURA ) , resulting in an overwhelming and unsettling sense of dread ( with tavern scenes full of superstitious villagers that link it , more than perhaps any other Italian Gothic outing , to the contemporaneous Hammer films ) that has rarely been equaled ? due , primarily , to its much-imitated spectral girl device ( actually played by a boy in drag ! ) . Carlo Rustichelli's score features an eerie main theme ( which anticipates Goblin's later soundtracks for Dario Argento movies ) but also re-uses the unforgettable romantic motif from Bava's own THE WHIP AND THE BODY ( 1963 ) ? a decision which , perhaps , cheapens it a little ( just because the music is so recognizable ) but is also a sure sign of the limited budget involved ! The film's striking locations were recently revisited by assistant director Lamberto Bava , Mario's son , for a featurette commissioned by Dark Sky for inclusion on their proposed DVD edition ? but which was cancelled at the eleventh hour due to a legal dispute ! However , apart from the visuals , sound is very important in this film : the giggling ghost-child , church-bells tolling by themselves , windows bursting open , etc . KILL , BABY ? KILL ! clearly emerges as one of Bava's greatest artistic achievements ? though I'd personally rate titles such as BLOOD AND BLACK LACE ( 1964 ) , RABID DOGS ( 1974 ) and THE WHIP AND THE BODY higher ; still , its influence is clearly evident in his own LISA AND THE DEVIL ( 1972 ) . Incidentally , I first watched this via VCI's English-dubbed and washed-out DVD ( when I was in Hollywood in late 2005 ) ; while I'd still have been enticed to purchase the Dark Sky version for Tim Lucas ' Audio Commentary , I'm extremely grateful to Anchor Bay for offering the equally desirable commodity of the Italian-language print in their edition !
ELVIS : THAT'S THE WAY IT IS { 2001 Re-Edited Version } ( Denis Sanders , 1970 )	The original theatrical version was drastically re-edited in 2001 to make Elvis ' stage performance the core of the show , thus removing all interview footage of the crowd before the concert , etc . Also given its due importance is the various rehearsal sessions which show Elvis goofing off on occasion but clearly knowing what he wants and in complete control of the proceedings . Indeed , Elvis is in great shape ? both vocally and physically ? and in great spirits , too and the fact that he had been missing live performances during a self-imposed hiatus ( a direct result of his lengthy Hollywood sojourn ) is palpable . Rather ironically perhaps , among the crowd of admirers one can glimpse such Hollywood celebrities as the already retired Cary Gramt , Sammy Davis . Jr . , George Hamilton and ex-Elvis co-star Juliet Prowse ! Presley clearly wanted this film to be done right because he engaged the services of a respectable director ( Denis Sanders ) and a great director of photography ( Lucien Ballard ) . Personally , I found " Suspicious Minds " to be the standout performance in the concert but all the songs he performed were good ones ? including some pretty obscure current titles like " Patch It Up " ? and it was refreshing to see the old " rock'n'roll " era standards being " thrown away " in a tongue-in-cheek manner by The King one right after another . His handling of the occasional cover ? " You've Lost That Loving Feeling " and " Words " ? was also quite impeccable . After a three-week long Elvis marathon , this is undoubtedly the best way to remember him because , watching him here , one really appreciates why the man was so loved when he was alive and why he is still so revered , missed and imitated 30 years after his death . . .
Frankenstein : The True Story ( Jack Smight , 1973 ; TV )	I had always wanted to watch this after reading about it in Alan Frank's book " Horror Films " , but missed out on it on Italian TV as a kid . When it was announced for DVD release , I pre-ordered it ( despite being a bare-bones affair ) but , after reading the first negative review - via DVD Talk , as there was mention of poor video quality and even edited footage - I almost cancelled it outright ! However , having watched it myself , I found no complaints with the former and , being a first viewing , I had no opinion about the latter - to be honest , Frank's description of The Creature ripping out Prima's head from her body had fired up my imagination all these many years , and found the scene as is in the film something of a let-down , but I couldn't verily say if it was trimmed or not ; likewise , I felt that the opening sequence ( the drowning of Frankenstein's younger brother ) was too abrupt , i . e . without having taken the time to create a genuine rapport between the two ( which would have made Victor's subsequent obsession with bringing the dead back to life that much more purposeful ! ) . . . but , again , I don't know if it has always been this way or if it originally ran longer ! ! The prologue was a mistake , in my opinion , as it feels awkward - like a Theatrical Trailer attached to the beginning of a movie , complete with spoilers galore ! Obviously , I've watched countless adaptations of the Mary Shelley classic along the years - and it's always interesting to see the way in which the original text is ' re-invented ' by the various writers and film-makers ; this epic , star-studded production is certainly among the most intelligent , literate renditions ( co-scripted by Christopher Isherwood ) although , to be honest , I found it most compelling during the first hour or so ; maybe that's because I was used to seeing a hulking , misunderstood creature rather than the dapper and relatively inconspicuous one depicted here ! Besides , David MacCallum's contribution is so strong ( I had seen him in a few films and TV shows , but nothing as impressive as this ! ) during these initial stages that when his character is killed off , immediately prior to the first creation scene , it never fully recovers ! ! Still , James Mason's Dr . Polidori makes for a great villain in the Praetorius tradition ( though nothing so campy as Ernest Thesiger ) ; in fact , even if the character is somewhat overwritten ( coming off as a power-mad evil genius more akin to Fu Manchu than anything else , flanked by a couple of Asian henchmen no less ! ) , Mason's playing is generally understated throughout - yet effortlessly dominating every scene he's in . Leonard Whiting isn't bad as Frankenstein , simply too youthful for the role - displaying none of the intensity of Colin Clive or the fastidiousness of Peter Cushing . Michael Sarrazin , as I said before , makes for a rather unalarming creature - though his subsequent physical and mental deterioration provides some undeniably effective moments ( such as in the afore-mentioned scene with Prima , the unsuccessful attempt by Polidori and Frankenstein to destroy him , and the doomed sea voyage at the finale ) ; that said , it appears that the conception itself of The Creature has problems : at first , MacCallum's Henry Clerval complains that he has been saddled with a peasant's brain for his creation and , yet when Frankenstein eventually substitutes it with that of Clerval himself , Sarrazin still emerges an illiterate - until the very end when he unaccountably starts reasoning the way Clerval would have and is even able to guide the ship to the Arctic ( it somehow doesn't feel right that Prima receives schooling whereas The Creature does not , or rather learns precious little from his various misadventures , such as the encounter with the blind hermit or his sojourn with Polidori - when both these incidents , as depicted in BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN [ 1935 ] , had proved crucial to The Creature's formation of character ) ! One of the most satisfying aspects to the film is the unusually strong participation of the female leads , both of whom add effortless grace to the proceedings but also deliver fine performances : Nicola Pagett is certainly the most significant Elizabeth I have seen , while Jane Seymour appears in a ' dual ' role as the blind hermit's grand-daughter and the mischievous , sexy Prima ( The Creature's female counterpart whom Dr . Polidori proposes to integrate into affluent London society , for his own sinister ends , with disastrous consequences ) . The supporting cast is chosen with an eye to adding further distinction to the production if little else , as none of the various thespians are particularly taxed by the brief roles they have been offered ! The film was made by Universal , interestingly enough , but shooting took place in London ( to where the story itself is , bafflingly , re-set for the most part ! ) . Even if director Smight didn't usually dabble in the horror genre , he managed the task competently enough - though the end result is essentially uninspired , and too genteel in the long run ; nevertheless , he's aided immeasurably in the visual stakes by the sterling contribution of cinematographer Arthur Ibbetson and production designer Wilfred Shingleton .
The Forbidden Photos Of A Lady Above Suspicion ( Luciano Ercoli , 1970 )	Ercoli's first film turns out to be a relatively restrained giallo , but one that's better than its more typical follow-ups - DEATH WALKS ON HIGH HEELS ( 1971 ) and DEATH WALKS AT MIDNIGHT ( 1972 ) ; in these , Susan Scott ( here supporting lovely Dagmar Lassander ) was promoted to the lead role - having , by this time , become romantically involved with the director ! While the film may disappoint some fans by its low quotient in the sex-and-violence stakes , these elements are still implicit in the narrative - particularly in the relationship between young society wife Lassander and slick blackmailer Simon Andreu , which may very well have been modeled on the even more ambiguous one shared by Catherine Deneuve and Pierre Clementi in Luis Bunuel's BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) ! The plot is pretty convoluted and there are red herrings and twists galore , even if the final revelation isn't exactly original . Lassander's pill-popping heroine ( sign of the times ! ) is surely one of the most put-upon in the genre - in this , too , it differs from the norm given that , usually , there are several victims involved - and the occasional flashes to her degrading experience with Andreu are nicely handled , playing up to Ercoli's skills as an editor . There's yet another delightful and infectious score by Ennio Morricone , and the film's color scheme makes it one of the more elegant examples of the genre ; lighting and props are equally well utilized ( especially in Lassander and Andreu's scenes together ) . However , the excessive 70s fashions on display results in some unintended campiness ( at one point , the nymphomaniac played by Scott attends to her guests in an outrageously skimpy attire ) - and the poor dubbing job isn't very commendable , either !
BREAD ( Manoel De Oliveira , 1959 )	This ' celebration of the working people ' documentary short evokes memories of films in this vein made by the great Soviet film-makers some thirty years before . It's a thorough , strikingly-directed and , hence , absorbing look at the myriad processes which go into the making of ' our daily bread ' ? from the sowing of seeds by farmers to the growth of wheat , its grounding via machinery to produce flour , the mixing with water to form dough and , finally shaped in round shapes and baked , is made ready for mass consumption . While clearly the film's main concern is the harmonious collaboration between man and machine towards the nourishment of one's body , the fact that bread is similarly employed ( via the consecrated host ) to symbolize the sustenance of one's soul doesn't entirely escape Oliveira . Incidentally , the version I watched ( recorded off late-night Italian TV ) runs for a mere 24 minutes ? whereas it's listed as being 51 minutes ( itself cut down from an original of 58 ) on the IMDb !
Greystoke : The Legend Of Tarzan , Lord Of The Apes ( Hugh Hudson , 1984 )	This begins a series ( which I'll hopefully keep up every week-end ) of films that came out during my childhood ? in this case , it's one I've only managed to catch now . It was clearly intended as the last word on the subject , which basically had been debased to the level of hokum over the years ; however , in its uncompromising striving for a serious-minded approach ( a sure measure of which is that the protagonist is never once referred to by the name he's been known all this time the world over ! ) , the film-makers rather lost track of the fact that the thing was intended primarily as entertainment ! Consequently , we get a decidedly staid representation of events ? with more care given to meticulous period reconstruction than in providing a functional thematic environment for its mythic jungle hero ! Even so , Christopher Lambert rose to stardom ? as did another debutante , Andie McDowell , playing his love interest ( named Jane , of course ) ? with the title role , which he handles creditably enough under the circumstances . However , Ralph Richardson ( to whom the film is dedicated , this being his swan-song ) steals every scene he's in as Tarzan's natural grandfather who , in spite of showing obvious affection for his long-lost kin , can't bring himself to forget tradition in an effort to understand his predicament ; the hero , in fact , is much more comfortable interacting with primates ( even contriving , after having gone back home , to save his adoptive ' dad ' from captivity ) . The film is otherwise very good to look at ( with cinematography by Stanley Kubrick regular John Alcott , no less ) , features an appropriately grandiose score as well as remarkable make-up effects ( by Rick Baker ) ? and , while essentially disappointing as a Tarzan outing , retains considerable value nonetheless as a prestige picture of its day .
Captain Horatio Hornblower ( Raoul Walsh , 1951 )	Though it’s been a staple on Italian TV ever since childhood , for some reason I never got around to watching this seafaring epic – given its popular source material ( C . S . Forester penned a series of novels about this fictional British naval hero ) , not to mention the imposing director and star ( Gregory Peck ) credentials . Anyway , going through a mini-swashbuckling marathon , it seemed the ideal opportunity to check it out ; having said that , this is another film to which the epithet shouldn’t perhaps be attached – due to the fact that cannons are the sole weapons that are adopted during the various sea battles ( after all , it’s closer to " Mutiny On The Bounty " than , say , the Errol Flynn vehicles made by the same studio , Warner Bros . ) ! Unsurprisingly , however , the end result still proved to be extremely typical of its kind and era : a colorful spectacle full of adventure , drama and romance , to say nothing of a stalwart cast . In fact , many a future British star is featured in this Anglo-American production , among them James Robertson Justice ( a role he would virtually recreate that same year in another pirate romp , ANNE OF THE INDIES , which I’ve also just watched for the first time ) , Stanley Baker and Christopher Lee ! The film basically resolves itself into a series of vignettes , designed to showcase the many facets of Hornblower’s personality : able navigator , disciplined commander and clever strategist . However , it takes care as well ( albeit less successfully ) to promote his human side – not merely through the all-too-predictable romantic complications involving the Virginia Mayo character , but the Captain’s rather silly idiosyncrasy of clearing his throat whenever he finds himself at a disadvantage ! CAPTAIN HORATIO HORNBLOWER , therefore , is an incident-packed and generally entertaining ride – albeit longish at nearly two hours ; for the record , Walsh and Peck would collaborate on another adventure film with the same milieu – THE WORLD IN HIS ARMS ( 1952 ) – while the star had one of his most atypical and challenging roles in the best cinematic adaptation of an equally famed seafaring source , Herman Melville’s MOBY DICK ( 1956 ) . . .
Horror Rises From The Tomb ( 1972 )	Paul Naschy exchanges his Waldemar Daninsky werewolf persona for that of medieval occultist Alaric De Marnac ( which he would play again , years later , in PANIC BEATS [ 1983 ] ) and that of his modern-day descendant Hugo , resulting in one of his most eclectic scripts taking in witchcraft , spiritualism , a powerful amulet , a scythe-wielding killer and a horde of zombies , among others - all of which are rather jumbled together without much consideration for logic , but it does make for a colorful and thrill-packed show . However , as is often the case with this type of film , the languid pace coupled with variable acting and the awkward dubbing also entails that HORROR RISES FROM THE TOMB comes off as an uneven - but , ultimately , not disagreeable - viewing experience . The film positively drips with atmosphere right from the opening sequence - set in 15th century France and showing Alaric's execution along with his mistress / associate , played by Helga Line - down to the couple's modern-day come-uppance during the busy climax which takes place in de Marnac's remote estate . Other notable moments include : the seance during which Alaric is invoked by Hugo ; the individual scenes in which the evil duo are revived , made possible by discreet use of ( rather unsophisticated ) special effects but which still manage to get the job done nicely ; their stylized seduction of one of the girls who tags along with the latest member of the de Marnac family ( who ostensibly travels to the castle in order to prove that his ancestor's evil influence is no more ) ; and , of course , the various gory murders and zombie attacks which pepper the film's running time . Featured in the cast , a staple of " Euro-Cult " cinema , is a bevy of beautiful ladies who are often seen lounging in various states of undress : Helga Line makes quite an impression as the villainous Mabille , but my favorite remains Emma Cohen ( later star of one of Jess Franco's best films , the psychological thriller THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MIRROR [ 1973 ] ) who exhibits sweetness and vulnerability in equal measures throughout - while also serving as Hugo's requisite love interest - and , by the film's end , is actually the sole survivor ( albeit emotionally scarred , as can be witnessed from the final shot ) of the mayhem . This and THE CRAVING ( 1980 ; see below ) have certainly made me game to check out some more Paul Naschy flicks . What would you experts recommend that I try next ?
THE LOVE OF SUMAKO THE ACTRESS ( Kenji Mizoguchi , 1947 )	Being one of the very few Mizoguchi films set in relatively modern times that I’ve come across , I wasn’t sure what to expect from this one ; incidentally , the domestic asides here are certainly the closest I’ve seen the director’s style approaching that of his contemporary Yasujiro Ozu ( whose work I can’t seem to get into – having watched only a handful of titles despite owning at least a score of them recorded off Italian TV ! ) . The narrative revolves around a radical theatre group within a school who wish to break away from the Japanese tradition of Kabuki and start tackling the European classics ; for their inaugural play , they settle on Ibsen’s " A Doll’s House " – however , they’re stuck when it comes to filling the demanding leading role of a liberated woman i . e . until the director stumbles upon a quarreling couple on the street , where the woman has decided to leave her partner for good to pursue an acting career ( she’s the real-life Sumako Matsui , considered the first modern Japanese stage actress ) ! Opening on the director giving a passionate lecture about Theatre and Art , one is immediately thrust into the subject matter – and , indeed , this emerges to be an unsung film on the profession ; still , as the title suggests , the leading lady – who’s shot to stardom with the play – becomes involved in an affair with the director , which all but ruins their lives : the latter abandons his family , resigns from his position at the school and the company’s reduced to touring the Continent because they can’t afford a place of their own ! However , this itinerant living eventually takes its toll on the director – who succumbs to pneumonia ; the outfit decides to stick together . . . but the actress – who naturally suffers most from the loss of her loved one – can’t bear it for long and , after scoring a great success with a straight rendition of " Carmen " , commits suicide ( the year is 1918 ) ! The latter marks yet another remarkable ( and award-winning ) performance from the versatile Kinuyo Tanaka in a role which , appropriately , allows her to virtually run the gamut of emotions : from determination in having a career to a willingness to learn the ropes to displaying confidence ( and even pride ) in her work , not to mention the personal conflicts brought on by the affair . By avoiding to play on the feelings inherent in the central romance , one’s tempted to accept it as being of an intellectual nature rather than physical ; Mizoguchi , in fact , prefers to concentrate on the way this relationship affects the people around them – the director’s colleagues and , especially , his family ( his wife’s domineering mother reminds him that he owes his career to her own social status , while his own daughter’s marriage prospects are quashed by his ‘immoral behavior’ ) . There is , however , a moving subtext in the doom-laden performance being held on the night of the director’s death ; similarly , the actress – as if imbued with her lover’s spirit – takes over the staging during the climax of " Carmen " herself . The film , then , boasts a wonderful ( and poetic ) final image – the face of the actress in her coffin adorned by flowers from her admirers ; incidentally , the beauty of the cinematography throughout is evident in spite of a damaged source print . On a personal note , I found it rather strange to watch the works of literary giants such as Ibsen and Tolstoy being enacted by Japanese actors but , I guess , that’s just the kind of stuff the Japanese would choose to produce in order to distance themselves from the traditional style of Kabuki ! For the record , in spite of its relatively high reputation ( being a work by a renowned master film-maker ) , Mizoguchi himself is said to have preferred the Teinosuke Kinugasa version of the same events – called THE ACTRESS , and made that very year ! !
A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION ( Robert Altman , 2006 )	Before watching this movie , I had never heard of writer / performer / radio personality Garrison Keillor and the main reason I rented this was because it was Robert Altman's last film . As usual , he managed to rope in several high-profile Hollywood names into his cast - Woody Harrelson , Tommy Lee Jones , Kevin Kline , Lindsay Lohan , Virginia Madsen , John C . Reilly , Meryl Streep , Lily Tomlin - but , as Altman himself admits in the rambling but not uninteresting Audio Commentary - he is basically just giving cinematic life to Keillor's preoccupations and radio show . The latter features a few Country & Western acts performing for a live audience ( which is never shown ) including Harrelson and Reilly as rude , lewd singing cowboys ( their " Bad Jokes " song is a delightful highlight ) , Streep ( who is clearly having a ball ) , Tomlin and Lohan as a singing family and even Sam Peckinpah favorite L . Q . Jones as another singing cowboy / old-timer . The most interesting aspects of the film are non-music related , however : it starts out in a Noir-ish style with smooth-talking detective Guy Noir ( Kline ) acting as narrator and observer and his clumsy attempts to stop the Axeman ( Tommy Lee Jones ) from foreclosing the show . Along the way , he meets and falls for a white-clad Angel of Death ( Madsen ) who , having expired herself in a traffic accident some years back while listening to Keillor's show , has now come to claim the lives of the two Joneses and possibly Kline himself . . . While perhaps a minor film in the Altman canon , it is still a respectable and fitting swan song for him . The shadow of impending death hangs so heavily on the movie that it is indeed remarkable how entertaining it actually is ; I'm sure there are some more examples of a distinguished film-maker reflecting so openly on his approaching death but the three I can think of at the moment off the top of my head are the Wim Wenders / Nicholas Ray collaboration LIGHTNING OVER WATER ( NICK'S MOVIE ) ( 1979 ; which I've yet to watch for myself ) , Bob Fosse's ALL THAT JAZZ ( 1979 ; like Altman's film , also disguised as a musical ) and John Huston's appropriately-titled last film , THE DEAD ( 1987 ) .
OH ! WHAT A LOVELY WAR ( Richard Attenborough , 1969 )	Attenborough's directing debut is patchy but impressive ( even garnering a Directors Guild Award nod ) , immediately demonstrating his affinity for grandiose subjects ; however , it was brave of him to go against the typically romantic view of British Imperialism ( not that it was an isolated case during this time - witness the comparable military caricatures depicted in Tony Richardson's THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE [ 1968 ] or , for that matter , Lindsay Anderson's irreverent expose ' of the education system in IF . . . [ 1968 ] ) . The all-star cast assembled for the film looks extraordinary on paper but , actually , only a few of them are given substantial roles - Dirk Bogarde's contribution is especially insignificant if still amusing . I was under the impression that the musical numbers featured in the film were written for the stage show which inspired it : interestingly , they're really a collection of songs that were popular around the time of World War I - notably sarcastic ditties ' improvised ' by the soldiers to take their minds off the grueling experiences on the battlefields ; best of all , perhaps , is a sequence in which a popular hymn is sung simultaneously by a church gathering and an army troop ( with the latter replacing the verses altogether to give it their typically cynical and anarchic perspective ! ) . Production values are top-notch but the overall structure , though generally admirably transferred to the screen , remains somewhat disjointed - the film coming across too often as a series of revue sketches which alternate between the cheerfully jingoistic ( Maggie Smith's stirring recruiting song ) , the broadly comic ( as in the scenes involving John Mills ' fanatical yet foolhardy Commander ) and the immensely poignant ( the wonderful sequence in which hostilities mutually cease over Christmas and the soldiers of both sides decide to meet in No Man's Land in order to share drinks and each other's company , not to mention the famous closing tracking shot over the endless graveyard ) , or else serve merely as expository passages ( as in the recurring stylized pier scenes where the leaders of the various countries - among them Ralph Richardson , John Gielgud , Jack Hawkins and Ian Holm - are seen converging to examine the progress of the war ) .
ANNE OF THE INDIES ( Jacques Tourneur , 1951 )	This is one of several period sea-faring yarns of its era , which has the added distinction ( although not in itself unique ) of a female buccaneer at its center . At first , both leads – Jean Peters and Louis Jourdan – might seem miscast but they grow nicely into their roles eventually , thanks no doubt to the talented players ( Herbert Marshall , Thomas Gomez and James Robertson Justice ) who support them . Velvety-voiced Marshall is uncharacteristically cast as the ship’s obligatory philosophical lush of a doctor , and Gomez is suitably larger-than-life as Blackbeard The Pirate . The cast is completed by Debra Paget as Jourdan’s wife , who incurs the jealous rage of the tomboyish titular character in whom Jourdan instills the first pangs of love ( which , however , does not spare him the occasional flogging or sword-wound ) ; incidentally , the film was the second exotic teaming of Jourdan and Paget in one year , following Delmer Daves’ BIRD OF PARADISE . The direct result of this unexpected softening of Anne’s character is her falling out with Blackbeard’s crew , and her unlikely climactic sacrifice in order to save the lives of the stranded Jourdan , Paget and Marshall . While the film is not a particularly outstanding example of its type , Jacques Tourneur’s energetic direction and Franz Waxman’s grandiose score ensure an above-average effort that moves along at a brisk pace ; incidentally , Tourneur had already done service in the genre with the superior Burt Lancaster vehicle , THE FLAME AND THE ARROW ( 1950 ) . As usual with vintage Technicolor productions , the cinematography gives the film a sumptuousness that is invigorating . By the way , differing running-times are given for this film ( 81 or 87 minutes ) and , for the record , the version I watched was the shorter one .
The Descent ( 2005 )	Marshall improves on the promise shown in his earlier DOG SOLDIERS ( 2002 ) with this nail-biting sleeper . After a slowish start in a belated female DELIVERANCE ( 1972 ) mode , the film piles on the shocks and the gore with unfaltering expertise . The all-female cast members are relative newcomers , a factor which adds immeasurably to their vivid portrayal of women out of their league fighting the elements , the supernatural and , at times , themselves . It is to the director's credit that he deliberately withholds the appearance of the " Crawlers " ( with their creepily effective Graf Orlok-like make-up ) for as long as he does ; if I were to nitpick , I would say that I would have liked for them to have been given a different ' voice ' - which to me sounded far too similar to that of the creatures in Guillermo Del Toro's MIMIC ( 1997 ) . The surprise , downbeat , open-ended ' twist ' ending , then , is ultimately the natural progression to the relentless grimness of what has gone on before .
THE PROFESSIONAL ( Georges Lautner , 1981 )	Despite being one of Jean-Paul Belmondo's most popular latter-day vehicles , I have to admit outright that I wasn't really expecting this one ( which has been a number of times on late-night Italian TV ) to be quite the riveting actioner it turned out to be ! The star was pushing fifty by this time , with his famous looks already starting to fade ( actually , I'd never watched a film of his following the actor's 1960s and 1970s heyday up till now ! ) ? but , to get an inkling of what THE PROFESSIONAL is like , think of a Charles Bronson vehicle from this same era ( with the protagonist proving virtually unstoppable and outwitting his pursuers at every turn ) ? only this is a relatively more polished product , with an eye less on exploitation than political maneuvering . The star is a secret agent sent on a mission to assassinate an African tyrant : eventually , the political climate changes and his superiors decide to sell him to the new African regime ; escaping after two years of hard labor , he goes back to his homeland ? just in time for a state visit from his previous target ? letting his agency in on the fact that he intends to accomplish his initial mission regardless ! And so starts the manhunt ? with Minister , Chief of Police , Military Adviser ( who happens to be Belmondo's ex-tutor ) , and ruthless Special Squad official all involved . Several women also end up as pawns in the dangerous chess game ? including Belmondo's wife , his mistress ( a code-breaker at the agency ) , and even the African President's choice hooker ! As I said , the film is action-packed ( including a car chase supervised by Remy Julienne and a surprising Western-style showdown between Belmondo and Robert Hossein , the sadistic leader of the Special Squad ) yet thoughtful , with numerous ingenious plot twists and a delicious finale ( with the various officials , not wanting to lose face after Belmondo's target has been ' terminated ' , arguing over how they should best tackle the matter ? which is then , somewhat inevitably , followed by a downbeat ' curtain ' ) . Driving the film along is an overpoweringly melancholic main theme which , incidentally , is one of master composer Ennio Morricone's most popular works ; curiously enough , the theatrical trailer for THE PROFESSIONAL features music from another Morricone-scored movie , INVESTIGATION OF A CITIZEN ABOVE SUSPICION ( 1970 ) ! Anyhow , a rich vein of tongue-in-cheek humor helps , too ( though this is never allowed to take the upper hand ) : the best line is when Belmondo abducts a member of the Special Squad ( with whom he has various run-ins throughout the film ) in order to infiltrate the African leader's heavily-guarded quarters , a country-side château , and he tells him " Act stupid as usual " so as not to draw attention to themselves ; interestingly , co-screenwriter Michel Audiard disliked the finished film and , subsequently , disowned it ! Unfortunately , the version I watched ( via a French Box Set comprising three of the star's 1980s thrillers ) was dubbed in English ? as the original language , while available , carried no subtitles ! I now look forward to these other two films , though I can't really anticipate whether they'll be of comparable quality . . .
HOLLYWOODLAND ( Allen Coulter , 2006 )	I rented this after I recently acquired the 1st Season of the ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN TV series on DVD-R - which starred George Reeves , the subject of this film . It's one of several recent biopics or thrillers to have a film-making background - AUTO FOCUS ( 2002 ; I took the opportunity to rent this one as well because of it ) , THE NOTORIOUS BETTIE PAGE ( 2005 ) , even THE BLACK DAHLIA ( 2006 ) . In itself , engrossing and entertaining and admirably displaying little undue pandering to modern tastes - as can be witnessed by the name-dropping of the likes of Ralph Meeker and Johnny Stompanato which , most probably , mean nothing to today's moviegoers . Still , the title is perhaps unsuited : Reeves was a TV star but only a bit-part actor in films , and his is certainly not the first name one would think of to sum up the old Hollywood ! Incidentally , the film supplies three possible avenues with respect to how events might have transpired on the fateful night of his death , but then leaves the audience to draw its own conclusions . Unfortunately , the main plot - the investigation into the actor's mysterious " suicide " in 1959 - is too often interrupted by Adrien Brody's personal domestic problems ; it's possible that this element was intended to play as a parallel storyline , but it mostly proves a distraction . That said , Brody is excellent - and equally good are Ben Affleck ( as Reeves , though I didn't think it was necessary to digitally paste his facial features over those of the late actor during the snippets shown from the " Superman " series and FROM HERE TO ETERNITY [ 1953 ] ! ) , Bob Hoskins ( as real-life MGM executive E . J . Mannix and producer of two Tod Browning horror classics , MARK OF THE VAMPIRE [ 1935 ] and THE DEVIL-DOLL [ 1936 ] ! ) and Diane Lane ( as Mannix's wife and Reeves ' middle-aged promoter / lover ) .
ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT ( TV ) { Edited European Theatrical Version } ( Delbert Mann , 1979 )	This is one of three DVD editions of made-for-TV movies that I rented in order to pay belated tribute to Oscar-winning director Mann who died last month ( the others being HEIDI [ 1968 ] and JANE EYRE [ 1970 ] ) . I'd always resisted watching this version of the celebrated Erich Maria Remarque novel , because I thought that it couldn't possibly hold a candle to the classic 1930 original directed by Lewis Milestone ; needless to say , this turned out to be true but , even if the edition I watched was trimmed by some 20 minutes from the full-length 150-minute broadcast , the film survives as a pretty decent rendering of the novel's anti-war sentiment . Combining meticulous period detail with elaborate battle sequences and reasonable narrative skill ( not least in the way it adopts flashbacks throughout the first half ) , it nevertheless lacks the overall impact of Milestone's classic mainly because of a bland young cast ( Richard Thomas as Paul Baumer may be closer to the character's age as depicted in the novel , but he never achieves the haunting quality of Lew Ayres ' performance in the original ) . It falls especially short when directly re-creating memorable scenes or moments from the 1930 film ( such as a pair of disembodied hands hanging onto a barbed-wire fence , or when Baumer spends the night in a foxhole beside a French soldier slowly dying from his bayonet wound ) ; the famous ending has also been slightly altered ? but , then , there are other good scenes here : notably , when a number of horses are wounded during an air-raid ? which causes consternation to one of the soldiers who had been a farmer as a civilian ? and the gas attack , which would mean a very painful death for anyone succumbing to it . The supporting cast is a distinguished one , led by a fine Ernest Borgnine as the seasoned Katczinky ; Ian Holm is the iron-fisted Himmelstoss ; Donald Pleasence the fanatical schoolteacher ; and Patricia Neal has a bit as Baumer's sick mother . As I said earlier on , Paul Monash's script manages to capture Remarque's basic idea of a country's youth having their innocence despoiled through combat ; similarly , John Coquillon's grimy cinematography is instrumental in bringing out the proverbial ' war is futile ' atmosphere .
LAPUTA - CASTLE IN THE SKY ( Hayao Miyazaki , 1986 )	As I was about to write this , I decided to re-read my review of Miyazaki's HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE ( 2004 ) - which I watched earlier this year - and I realized that what I had said about that film pretty much applies to this one as well , even if there's practically a 20-year gap between them ( I guess the inference here is that this celebrated animator's style hasn't developed all that much in the interim , which is not necessarily a bad thing ) . To quote myself , then : " a great showcase of the Japanese master's visionary genius ; however , it also features his typical faults - to me , at least - of presenting an over-ambitious ( and overly weird ) plot line which , due to its excessive length , tends to overstay its welcome and ends up in being an overwhelming ( if not necessarily memorable ) visual experience ! As usual , the detail is immaculate and the scale of the whole thing impressive " . Granted , the plot of LAPUTA isn't nearly as involved as some of Miyazaki's later work , though this is still far from a kiddie film - particularly in its climactic set-piece , where all parties concerned ( the children , the sky pirates - whose hard exterior mellows gradually to reveal an essential softness underneath - and the army - whose leader , too , isn't what he seems to be ) converge on the titular flying citadel , each having their own goal . It's evident , therefore , that characterization is not at all one-dimensional ( though Miyazaki dispenses with anthropomorphism this time around ) - while the robotic guardians of the island castle are strikingly designed , as well as suitably imposing ; the score ( by frequent Miyazaki collaborator Joe Hisaishi ) , too , emerges as a definite asset . To tie in with how I began this review , then , I believe that it's been my over-exposure to Anime on Italian TV as a kid which has diluted the overall impact that such feature-length efforts ( and Miyazaki's films in particular ) seem to have - pretty much unanimously - on audiences from other parts of the world . . .
WALL-E ( Andrew Stanton , 2008 )	This brand-new Oscar winner for Best Animated Feature is an unusual and generally successful Pixar offering ( marred by a sag in the middle ) . The amiable titular character is a robot entrusted with the clean-up of a decimated Earth ; typically humanized , he falls for the female probe sent to determine the habitable condition of life on our planet . The design of the film ( both the Earth wasteland ? familiar architectural landscapes have been replaced by scraps of garbage ? and the spaceship to which Wall-E follows his beloved ? presciently peopled by laid-back , overweight non-entities ) are interesting and quite sophisticated for this type of fare . The eclectic score includes original material ( notably Peter Gabriel's Oscar-nominated song " Down To Earth " ) but also a couple of numbers from the musical " Hello , Dolly ! " ? seen via an old VHS copy of the 1969 film version which Wall-E is continuously playing . BURN-E ( Angus MacLane , 2008 ) This slight but harmless short is a made-for-video spin-off of the theatrical animated feature WALL-E ( 2008 ) highlighting a very minor character from it and has appropriately been included on that film's DVD edition ; it feels like a deleted scene from the main feature , but actually involved a different director . The titular figure this time around is an accident-prone robot ? getting to grips with a mischievous signpost ? on the spaceship seen in WALL-E ( the character ? and his mate ? even makes a cameo here via scenes lifted from his own vehicle ! ) .
EASTERN PROMISES ( David Cronenberg , 2007 )	First of all , my rating is rather misleading because that’s how I also rated Cronenberg’s previous ( and superior ) film , A HISTORY OF VIOLENCE ( 2005 ) – in fact , my twin brother tried to talk me into giving this one a lower rating but I vetoed the idea ; still , quite good , therefore , but not great – in view that the maverick director has apparently forsaken the horror genre for good and set his mind on becoming the successor to Martin Scorsese ! In itself , the film is essentially well made but surprisingly cliché-ridden resulting in stereotyped characters and a predictable plot line . While none of the principal actors are Russians , the cast is generally excellent : Viggo Mortenson’s role is practically a reversal of the one he played in A HISTORY OF VIOLENCE ( though , again , he was more impressive there ) – even so , he is to be applauded for consenting to play the tense bath-house assault ( the film’s undeniable highlight ) fully unclothed – though one wonders what the rabid fans of THE LORD OF THE RINGS films think of him now ! ; Naomi Watts is fine as always and delivers perhaps the best performance in the film ( in spite of the fact that her character isn’t really given much to do ) ; Vincent Cassel , however , is positively annoying as the typically arrogant but ultimately inadequate offspring of a Mafia Godfather ( incidentally , if he was such a wimp that his father had to show him how to make love to a woman – even if it happened to be a 14-year old girl – why does the father later be angered that his only son has been branded a " drunken queer " ? ) ; Armin Mueller-Stahl portrays the latter and he’s quite good as always – though his ruthless ( even inhuman , in view of the revelation about the dead prostitute’s fate ) crime lord – hiding under a deceptively innocuous exterior – is anything but a novel concept ; Sinead Cusack ( whom I’ve recently watched in her prime alongside Peter Sellers in Hoffman [ 1970 ] ) appears as Watts’ mother – the actress is the wife of Jeremy Irons ( who made DEAD RINGERS [ 1988 ] and M . BUTTERFLY [ 1993 ] for Cronenberg . . . but also MOONLIGHTING [ 1982 ] , which was directed by Cusack’s co-star here , Jerzy Skolimowski ! ) ; the latter has a nice part as Watts’ effusive ex-secret agent uncle ( he isn’t afraid to face the Mafia but his amusing fate virtually supplies the film’s lone respite from the prevailing gloominess ) . Incidentally , coming back to that nude fight scene , Skolimowski himself set one of his best films as a director , DEEP END ( 1970 ) , in a London bath-house – now there’s a unique film , with a tragic finale one doesn’t see coming ! To get back to the predictable elements in the film : the Russian gangsters pose as restaurant owners and , sure enough – in true GODFATHER-style – we are treated to a group of elderly Russian diners chanting the proverbial " Oci Ciornie " ; the explicit throat-cutting sequence which effectively opens the film is virtually repeated halfway through ( as if one needed an illustration of the age-old " an eye for an eye " code of ethics adhered to in underworld circles ! ) ; even the late reveal of Mortensen’s true identity is a much abused model and shouldn’t surprise anyone who read the earlier signs correctly – the sudden promotion of Mortensen from a lowly if trusted chauffeur / clean-up man ( yet another oft-used characteristic ) into a fully-fledged member of the Russian mafia solely for the purpose of being sold out by Mueller-Stahl while passed off as his son ; Cassel humiliates Mortenson by ordering him to have sex with one of the girls as he watches on : the sheer fact that we’ve seen this type of behavior in boss-henchmen relationships many times before makes the graphic scene itself seem gratuitous , etc . Throughout the film , I was reminded of a very similar recent case ( in the same genre , no less ) where the sum of the undoubtedly good parts add up to a less than completely satisfactory whole – Sam Mendes’ ROAD TO PERDITION ( 2002 ) . . .
SINBAD THE SAILOR ( Richard Wallace , 1947 )	This Arabian Nights swashbuckler was another revisit to a film I had first come across during childhood . Considering the popularity of its titular figure , it’s odd that it has yet to be released on DVD ; in fact , I had to make do with a soft and washed-out print ( sourced from VHS ) for this viewing . Incidentally , I had intended to schedule the film over Christmas to go with the other Arabian Nights stuff I watched back then – CHU CHIN CHOW ( 1934 ) , etc . – but ended up postponing it . Now seemed like a good time to get to SINBAD due to the overlapping of various cast and crew members with such recently-viewed titles in the same vein as FRENCHMAN’S CREEK ( 1944 ) , THE Spanish MAIN ( 1945 ) and AGAINST ALL FLAGS ( 1952 ) . Anyway , the film is colorful entertainment – albeit overstretched at nearly two hours – in which Douglas Fairbanks Jr . admirably emulates his iconic father’s flamboyant style , particularly his craving gestures from THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1924 ) . For the record , the younger Fairbanks himself appeared in a number of other swashbucklers : these include adaptations of such literary classics as THE PRISONER OF ZENDA ( 1937 ; the definitive version and , interestingly , in a villainous role – Rupert of Hentzau ) and THE CORSICAN BROTHERS ( 1942 ; obviously in a dual role ) as well as Max Ophuls’ typically stylish solitary excursion in the genre , THE EXILE ( 1947 ) . By the way , given that this was the first cinematic Sinbad , his characteristics aren’t as yet those of the wholesome yet stoic hero featured in the later Ray Harryhausen effects-laden extravaganzas – rather he’s depicted as a rogue and a charlatan , albeit a lovable one . Maureen O’Hara is , once again , the leading lady – even if her character isn’t as well-developed as the ones she played in either THE Spanish MAIN or AGAINST ALL FLAGS . Anthony Quinn is rather dull as an Arab potentate after a fortune in jewels and gold , the legacy of Alexander The Great lost to the ages . Walter Slezak’s character , however , is a memorable one – with a cowardly and eccentric exterior concealing his true self , a legendary ruthless villain named Jamal . Also in the cast are George Tobias as Sinbad’s comic-relief sidekick , Sheldon Leonard as a flustered auctioneer and Alan Napier , turning up towards the end as the guardian of the coveted treasure chest .
Carry On Laughing : One In The Eye For Harold ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	To begin with , I expected this to be a modern political lampoon rather than yet another medieval ( and typically bawdy ) romp ! With this in mind , the beginning is somewhat shaky ? but , eventually , it settles down to being a quite funny episode in the TV series . Jack Douglas is assigned to procure a secret weapon devised by monk Kenneth Connor to aid in the Saxon king's war against the Normans . The journey back is fraught with peril ? even if the appointed assassin of the two travelers botches his job at every turn ; a second spy , femme fatale Joan Sims , fares no better . David Lodge is featured as the Norman king . The best gags here involve an old hag who seduces Douglas and Connor in the forest ( of course , they reject her advances ? but , unbeknownst to them , she's actually acting on behalf of a virginal damsel ! ) and the climactic sequence , which has Connor's invention ( a glass helmet , pretty much like an astronaut's ! ) ultimately prove fatal to the king ? so Douglas and Connor contrive to arrange an accident which would fulfill a prophecy attached to their sovereign's demise ( and which also gives the episode its title ) !
Carry On Laughing : Orgy And Bess ( TV ) ( Alan Tarrant , 1975 )	This is one of the funniest entries in the alternate TV comedy series , most of which were period spoofs of famous historical events and figures ; it's also notable as being the " Carry On " swan-song for both Sid James and Hattie Jacques ? they play Sir Francis Drake and Queen Elizabeth I respectively . The script includes such a barrage of ( typically ) vulgar puns and topical gags ( some of them fairly obscure at this juncture ) that one's barely able to keep up with it ! As was to be expected by now , too , one of the central characters ? Sir Walter Raleigh ? is depicted as outrageously effeminate ; latter-day series regular Jack Douglas , then , appears in two roles for no very good reason . Of course , the ubiquitous " Carry On " siren ? diminutive , buxom and plucky Barbara Windsor ? is on hand to divert Drake's attentions from the corpulent queen , so that his position as the latter's chief confidante can be usurped by Douglas ' scheming Lord Essex ! When caught in the act , Jacques immediately forgives James ? except that , just then , her intended suitor appears on the scene ? Kenneth Connor as King Philip II of Spain ( made to speak gibberish when delivering lines in his ' native ' language : incidentally , much is made of the fact that the two monarchs share their names with England's own current royals ! ) ; this affront , of course , throws the two countries into war ? fought and won off-screen by the ' heroic ' Drake ? the direct result of which is the promise set up by the risqué title ( obviously derived from the celebrated George Gershwin musical " Porgy And Bess " ) though , of course , the only thing we're allowed to see is the queen's chambers being filled by prancing courtiers !
THERESE ( Alain Cavalier , 1986 )	I recall this being shown one Friday afternoon while in secondary school ( a Catholic college no less ) ; rewatching THERESE now , I can't fathom what my reaction might have been at the time ? since it is far more stark ( to the point where there are barely any sets ! ) than the Vittorio Cottafavi TV-film about the same subject which preceded the viewing . Incidentally , while the latter was interesting in depicting the inquiry into the Carmelite nun's canonization ( without her ever appearing on-screen ) , this purports to present her actual life ? but does it in a such a fragmentary , low-key manner ( evoking memories of the work of one of my favorite auteurs , Robert Bresson ) as to shed no more light on her professed saintliness : in this respect , the two films are in perfect agreement ? while rendering the version under review somewhat pointless ! Mind you , artistically , THERESE is undeniably sound ? if drawing unwarranted attention to itself ( especially in the obscure insistence on detail which is sometimes decidedly revolting ! ) ? with Catherine Mouchet's central performance proving similarly compelling . Anyway , the film caught the critics ' attention at the time ? winning a great many Cesar awards ( France's equivalent to the Oscar ) and , as I intimated in my introduction , made the rounds internationally in an English-dubbed version ( in spite of its limited commercial appeal ) .
THE VENUS OF ILLE ( TV ) ( Mario and Lamberto Bava , 1978 )	I came upon this by chance on late-night Italian TV ; it was shown unannounced following a screening of the director's HATCHET FOR THE HONEYMOON ( 1970 ) ! This rarely-seen ( and , consequently , legendary ) TV production emerges as a more fitting swan-song for Bava than his last disappointing feature film , SHOCK ( 1977 ) ! As in that title , the female lead is played by Dario Argento muse Daria Nicolodi ? who , while no great beauty , is very well-cast here as the lookalike / reincarnation of a Greek goddess / femme fatale . On the other hand , in the role of the narrative's cultured yet bewildered hero appears Lucio Fulci alumnus Marc Porel ? who , interestingly , bears an uncanny resemblance to latter-day Hammer Films star Ralph Bates ! Similarly , the compactly-told supernatural tale ( from Prosper Merimee ' and filmed three more times in 1922 , 1962 and 1980 ! ) feels like one of Hammer's TV episodes : it was , in fact , part of a horror series ( all of them with a period setting ) entitled THE DEVIL'S GAMES ? though Bava's involvement here , naturally , guarantees a more subtly artistic approach . While somewhat talky and languidly-paced , the meticulousness of its detail and the inclusion of a couple of classic Bava moments ( the sudden appearance of the statue's reflection in a window and the eerie , intense climax ) makes the film a more than suitable follow-up to the director's earlier gothics ? THE WHIP AND THE BODY ( 1963 ) and KILL , BABY ? KILL ! ( 1966 ) . In conclusion , I'd certainly be interested in checking out other episodes in this rather obscure series ? not to mention Bava's other made-for-TV effort , the " Polifemo " episode from the mini-series THE ODYSSEY ( 1968 ; which was actually broadcast some years back on early Saturday mornings ) . As for co-director Lamberto ( son and former assistant of the Euro-Cult master ) , I haven't been at all impressed with what little I've caught of his stand-alone work ? though , with four more titles from him that I have lined-up , I'll do better to reserve a more objective judgment for a later date . . .
IRMA LA DOUCE ( Billy Wilder , 1963 )	This was one of only four Wilder titles I hadn't caught up with yet ? I'm now left with MAUVAISE GRAINE ( 1934 ) , THE EMPEROR WALTZ ( 1948 ) and FEDORA ( 1978 ; which I own on VHS ) . Like those films , this one's hardly top-flight material though certainly popular ( in view of its reteaming the director with the stars of that which has come to be acknowledged as his masterpiece i . e . THE APARTMENT [ 1960 ] ) . The latter are , of course , Jack Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine and , while neither achieved the quality of their previous performances for Wilder ( Lemmon's included his cross-dressing turn in SOME LIKE IT HOT [ 1959 ] ) in this case , they both still gave it their all . Despite MacLaine's titular figure being little more than the proverbial tart-with-a-heart ( though Wilder being Wilder he also made her socially ambitious ) , she got the better deal with an Oscar nod to her name . Lemmon , however , had perhaps the tougher role ? going from naive and over-eager beat-cop to determined partner ( and having to be reluctant pimp , restless meat-market worker , impostor and , worst of all , his own jealous lover in the interim ) ; incidentally , it seems that some of the mannerisms inherent in the actor's caricatured impression of an English lord here would rub off on his almost cartoonish Professor Fate character from Blake Edwards ' epic comedy THE GREAT RACE ( 1965 ) . Having mentioned the two leads , one should not forget the valued contribution of Lou Jacobi as a sympathetic bartender who also prides himself on being a jack-of-all-trades . At almost 2 ½ hours , this is Wilder's longest released effort ( THE PRIVATE LIFE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES [ 1970 ] was whittled down from 200 minutes to 125 ! ) which it need not have been and , clearly , the film peaks during its first third . Interestingly , IRMA LA DOUCE was inspired by a musical but the score was eventually dropped for its screen treatment ? so it was ironic that Andre ' Previn's original accompaniment would garner the film its solitary Academy Award ! The adult nature of the central theme ( prostitution ) was possible thanks to a certain slackening in censorship ? which allowed for a couple of semi-revealing shots of MacLaine , but also made the film's deliberately artificial look ( of Paris ) all the more curious .
ABDUL THE DAMNED ( Karl Grune , 1935 )	Fascinating though heavy-going political thriller ( quite unusual for a British production of its time ) about little-known events ? it's set in 1908 Turkey during the final years in the reign of Sultan Abdul Hamid II ; the overall treatment ( this is one of obscure Austrian director Grune's last films ) is somewhat stilted but pictorially impressive nonetheless . Though the film is bogged down by the romantic contrivances , making it feel longish , there is still plenty of intrigue going on to hold one's interest ? with even some effectively ironic cross-cutting between pompous parades and vicious assassinations several decades before THE GODFATHER ( 1972 ) ' s celebrated climax ! Fritz Kortner turns in another powerful , albeit thoughtful and more controlled , performance ( or , rather , two ? as he also plays the titular character's actor double ! ) ; abetting him are Nils Asther ( a fine performance of sleek villainy as Abdul's ambitious Chief Of Police ? incidentally , he had himself just played a villainous ruler in Frank Capra's marvelous THE BITTER TEA OF GENERAL YEN [ 1933 ] with which this film shares some similarities ) and statuesque Adrienne Ames ( as a visiting Austrian singer who attracts the lustful eye of many a man , including the Sultan himself ? I knew her best from the classic W . C . Fields comedy YOU'RE TELLING ME ! [ 1934 ] ) . The supporting cast , then , includes the likes of Esme ' Percy ( as the Sultan's aide , a eununch ! ) , Walter Rilla , Patric Knowles , George Zucco and Eric Portman . Apparently , this was cut down from the original 111 minutes ( the DVD version actually runs for 108 ) to a mere 79 minutes for American theatrical release . Finally , one must thank VCI for making such a rare item as ABDUL THE DAMNED ( whose brief complimentary review in the Leslie Halliwell Film Guide I'd been reading for years ) available ? even if only as a bonus feature on their Deluxe Edition of CHU-CHIN-CHOW ( 1934 ) . However , I was irked by the sloppy disc production involved : the worst offender is an annoyingly long pause prior to every chapter ( something I've never encountered before and which also affects the shorter version of CHU-CHIN-CHOW , retitled ALI BABA NIGHTS , on the second DVD of this 3-Disc Set ) ! Besides , the actor bios are not given sufficient time to register and could only be read by pausing them ; then , once they're over , the disc doesn't return one automatically to the main menu ? I had to press the " Stop " and " Menu " buttons on my remote control in order to access the next item . . . wtf ? !
THE SHOW ( Tod Browning , 1927 )	This interesting but relatively obscure circus drama , a milieu which director Browning truly made his own , is well-mounted in MGM's typically high style . While perhaps not as grotesque as his Lon Chaney collaborations , the film manages to build much of the same atmosphere ; the early freak show sequence and recurring decapitation routines are on hand to create the necessary frisson . The three leads - John Gilbert and Renee Adoree , reunited after the massive success of King Vidor's THE BIG PARADE ( 1925 ) , and Lionel Barrymore , effectively stepping in for Chaney ( though he is made to be more of an out-and-out villain ) - are nicely filled . Unfortunately , the belated subplot involving Adoree's secret takes up a good chunk of the film's second half , wearing the film down somewhat in the process , but it eventually packs a nice emotional punch . Then there is the typical Browning finale where the villain dies , more or less by his own doing , at the hands of a vicious animal ( in this case , an iguana ) . As I said about James Whale , I wonder whether Warners should consider releasing a " Tod Browning Collection " ( ideally as part of their prestigious " TCM Archives " series ) somewhere down the line : this would certainly fit the bill nicely , along with some of his other non-Chaney MGM films .
MATCH POINT ( Woody Allen , 2005 )	I wouldn't say that I'm Woody's biggest fan but , along the years , I've found his writing to be of a consistently high quality . As I was watching this film , I felt guilty of having neglected his recent work - the last Allen title I've watched is SWEET AND LOWDOWN ( 1999 ) and , in all , I still have to catch up with 14 of his pictures ! - but , by the end of the it , I reconfirmed my opinion that his work needs to be taken in small doses . . . Considering the praise heaped upon MATCH POINT , many claiming it to be some kind of ( belated ) turning point in Allen's career , I didn't quite know what to expect . However , when I watched the film I was relieved - but , at the same time , disappointed - to discover that it's nothing if not the old Woody all over again ! While I wouldn't quite call his films boring , the relentless barrage of cultural name-dropping in historical / fashionable surroundings - more than his Bergmanesque study of male / female relationships and their neuroses ( which is not as pronounced here as in some of his earlier , more austere work anyway ) - is decidedly exasperating . . . and , in the case of this particular film , is further augmented by the posh lifestyle of the characters and the dreary London setting . Besides , listening to Allen's distinctive dialogue being delivered with a British accent proved quite unreal and took some getting used to ! Anyway , what made the film for me was the presence - in both senses - of Scarlett Johannson : not only is she breath-taking to look at ( I was extremely lucky to get to see her , and even attended two Press Conferences she did , at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ! ) but her tackling of the difficult role - as was the case with LOST IN TRANSLATION ( 2003 ) - was outstanding , and knowledgeable beyond her years ; I've watched only two of the performances nominated for the Best Supporting Actress Oscar , but I can't help feeling that she has been snubbed ( and that's twice already ! ) . As for the much-touted final third which turns the film , unexpectedly , into a thriller ( not a first for Woody , by the way ) : Allen directs these scenes like a pro , even taking care to include elements of black comedy and capping all with a devastatingly ironic ending . Bravo ! Well , even if the film is not up to the standards of his best serious work ( alas , only the first of them has received more than one viewing from me ! ) - ANNIE HALL ( 1977 ) , MANHATTAN ( 1979 ) , HANNAH AND HER SISTERS ( 1986 ) , CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS ( 1989 ) and HUSBANDS AND WIVES ( 1992 ) - writing these comments just now has all of a sudden put me in the mood for more of the director's films : I do have four on VHS ( though both my VCRs are currently out-of-order ! ) but , then , my local DVD outlet carries most of his recent work . . .
THE ADVENTURES OF MARCO POLO ( Archie Mayo and , uncredited , John Cromwell and John Ford , 1938 )	In itself corny and uneven , this is typical 30s entertainment done on a grand scale ; the look of the film is artificial but undeniably lavish . Being a Samuel Goldwyn production , the film is the very antithesis of a history lesson ; still , it's more interesting when dealing with the title character's various discoveries in the Orient than his romantic conquests ! Goldwyn , however , could surely afford to employ a reliable cast - most of whom , though , one would be hard-pressed to accept as Chinese - including Gary Cooper ( likeable as always in the lead , if not exactly believable ) , Basil Rathbone ( a typically sly villain ) , Sigrid Gurie ( Kublai Khan's daughter and , naturally , an object of contention between Cooper and Rathbone ) , Ernext Truex ( funny as Cooper's flustered sidekick ) , Alan Hale ( a jovial rebel leader ) and H . B . Warner ( who basically replicates his dignified Chang from LOST HORIZON [ 1937 ] ) . Action is sparse but nicely handled ( particularly the climax ) and , surprisingly , the montage sequences ( a feature of many films of the era ) utilize some interesting optical effects . The IMDb lists the uncredited contribution of two other directors - John Cromwell and John Ford ; since the latter's frequent cinematographer Archie Stout does feature in the credits , I'm inclined to believe Ford was involved at some point . . . though it doesn't really show in the finished product ( the subject was hardly up his street , to begin with ) ! Back in the day , I had watched both the 1965 international epic MARCO THE MAGNIFICENT and the 1982 TV mini-series MARCO POLO ; I'll be following this with an Italian low-brow variation made in 1961 ( see review below ) and might even rent the recent 1998 version , THE INCREDIBLE ADVENTURES OF MARCO POLO ( shortened to MARCO POLO for the U . S . ) - if only because it features Jack Palance and Oliver Reed , and was written by Harry Alan Towers !
YOU'RE TELLING ME ! ( Erle C . Kenton , 1934 )	This is yet another delightful W . C . Fields vehicle which he had already made as a Silent , under the name SO'S YOUR OLD MAN ( 1926 ) . Actually , the first half of this comedy classic is possibly the best of the four titles I've watched so far from Universal's second Fields set ( with several hilarious gags taken by the star as far as they can go ) ; the latter section lacks that initial sparkle , despite its climaxing with his famous golf routine ( which had also been the basis of his short THE GOLF SPECIALIST [ 1930 ] ) . Interestingly , the film combines the star's two basic personality traits : here , he's both henpecked and con-man ( playing an inventor of unlikely gadgets ) . There's the usual romance hindered by class distinction ( see also THE OLD FASHIONED WAY [ 1934 ] ) between Fields ' livelier-than-usual daughter - played by Joan Marsh - and future Flash Gordon Larry " Buster " Crabbe ; lovely Adrienne Ames brings an exotic touch to the proceedings as a princess who befriends the star on a train ( gossiping womenfolk from Fields ' hometown think he's having an affair ) and determines to ' elevate ' his social position . The train sequence is marked by an unexpected poignancy , with the Fields character's intention of committing suicide after blowing his get-rich-quick scheme . Among the highlights are : Fields ruining his daughter's prospects by his " naïve gauchery " when Crabbe's snobbish upper-crust mother comes visiting ; his demonstration of the damage-proof tyre ( Fields doesn't realize that his vehicle has been moved and that he's firing at the wheels of a police-car - the scene is capped by the car-radio's announcement of the very ' crime ' being committed upon it ! ) ; Fields inadvertently drinking from a roach exterminating potion of his own invention but , after turning to the genuine stuff , decides that the former is more to his liking ! ; when he returns home a failure , Fields tries to soften the blow to his family honor by buying his wife a pet - a large ostrich he's unable to control and ends up losing practically immediately ! And the best lines : the " Mrs . Bisbee , you're the luckiest woman in the world " - " Is my husband dead ? " exchange between the princess and Fields ' wife ; the star's remark to the princess about Mrs . Bisbee's " uncalled for sarcasm " . Director Kenton is better known for his horror stuff , notably ISLAND OF LOST SOULS ( 1933 ) - also made at Paramount - and such Universal ' B ' monster flicks as THE GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1942 ) , HOUSE OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1944 ) and HOUSE OF Dracula ( 1945 ) ; he did , however , helm three above-average Abbott & Costello comedies a decade after making his solo W . C . Fields vehicle . In conclusion , even if Fields was essentially a Talkie comedian , I still wish that some of the earlier versions of his classic films were more readily available ( I'm only familiar with the star's Silent work through his debut short POOL SHARKS [ 1915 ] , featured on Criterion's W . C . FIELDS : 6 SHORT FILMS disc ) . . .
THIS ISLAND EARTH ( Joseph M . Newman and , uncredited , Jack Arnold , 1955 )	While my first viewing of this one ( which took place ages ago on Italian TV ) had suffered from a botched reception , this second attempt came via a full-frame DivX copy ? resulting in the intermittent jerky movement during playback which characterizes this particular format ! Anyway , the film may not be as cerebral as FORBIDDEN PLANET ( 1956 ) or as philosophical as THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN ( 1957 ) , but it's certainly more ambitious ( and intelligent ) than your average sci-fi flick ? though , ultimately , emerging to be more interesting than entertaining ( chiefly due to its surplus of technical chat ) . Jeff Morrow is an unusually benign presence among the typically superior ( with elongated foreheads to show for it ! ) and tyrannical aliens ? intent on colonizing the Earth because their own planet , Metaluna ( literally meaning ' half-moon ' ) , is dying . Handsome , deep-voiced Rex Reason makes for a rugged lead ? while Faith Domergue provides the requisite female / romantic interest ( though she's hardly believable as an ace atomic scientist ! ) . The electronic score ( credited to Universal's Head of Music Department Joseph Gershenson , but which is actually a combination of several pieces by Henry Mancini , Hans Salter and Herman Stein ! ) underlines the film's pervading mood of mystery and fantasy . Interestingly , this was edited by Virgil Vogel ? who was soon to step into the director's chair for the rather dismal THE MOLE PEOPLE ( 1956 ) , which I've just watched . THIS ISLAND EARTH ( adapted from a novel by Raymond F . Jones ) is , perhaps , best-remembered for its scenes on Metaluna ( which were allegedly re-shot by none other than Jack Arnold ! ) ; however , these only take up the last twenty minutes of the running-time ? while the appearance of the famous dome-headed mutants ( with their pincer-like hands ) , disappointingly , amounts to a limited screen-time and very little purpose ! One further quibble here is the fact that , after having taken the trouble to kidnap Reason and Domergue out of space so as to ensure their help in the defense of Metaluna , the inhabitants are ready to lobotomize the couple at the first sign of defiance ! That said , the general look of the film is suitably impressive ? and it was deemed an important enough undertaking to be shot in color ( even if this came across as rather muddy , especially during the first half , in the print I watched ! ) . One doesn't really mind the charmingly dated special effects ( which culminate in the destruction of Metaluna ) , or the fact that the planet's surface is depicted largely through matte paintings . By the way , an essay I often read as a kid ( found in an old movie-magazine of my father's ) had named THIS ISLAND EARTH one of the top 3 efforts from Hollywood's Golden Age of Sci-Fi movies ? along with 20 , 000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA ( 1954 ) and FORBIDDEN PLANET !
THE HOUSE THAT DRIPPED BLOOD ( Peter Duffell , 1970 )	Linking story : another first-time viewing for me and , again , this is one of the most popular of the Amicus anthologies - and it's easy to see why , though I realize how the film's rather meaningless title could be misleading for some ; I certainly fancied director Peter Duffell's choice - DEATH AND THE MAIDEN ( which , incidentally , is a classical piece by Schubert that is heard in the film during the Peter Cushing episode ) - a great deal more . Though the linking device itself is not all that great , the episodes are all equally compelling and enjoyable . Production values come off as very respectable indeed for the budget Duffell had to work with . The latter infuses the film with a great deal of style which is not so common with this type of film and , frankly , it makes one regret the fact that he wished to distance himself from the genre ( though more so as not to be typecast rather than because he felt it was beneath him ) . Now to the individual stories themselves : " Method For Murder " : the opening segment does not offer any real surprises but , to make up for this , it's quietly suspenseful and appropriately creepy at times ( Tom Adams ' ' fictitious ' villain looking like the long-lost brother of Boris Karloff from THE OLD DARK HOUSE [ 1932 ] ) ; also , it ends with a satisfactory DIABOLIQUE-type twist , and features a fairly intense role for Denholm Elliott in the lead . That's all we need out of it , really . " Waxworks " : for the second story we are introduced to a curiously romantic mood which is quite unusual for this type of film ; Peter Cushing and Joss Ackland are both excellent ( as well as impeccably dressed ) in their roles of two jilted lovers of a woman who continues to obsess them even after such a long time , and whose friendly rivalry can only lead them blindly and inexorably to a fate that is literally worse than death ; an ominous hallucination scene with Peter Cushing is quite well done in view of the limited resources at hand , and Ackland's inexplicable inability - or unwillingness - to leave town somewhat recalls the house-trapped aristocrats of Bunuel's THE EXTERMINATING ANGEL ( 1962 ) . " Sweets To The Sweet " : this is perhaps the finest episode of all - with his ambiguous role here , Christopher Lee continues to demonstrate his versatility and he is matched by an understanding Nyree Dawn Porter and the deceptive innocence of Chloe Franks ( who appears as Lee's daughter ) . The film's treatment of the occult here is both subtle and mature , culminating in a powerful and extremely chilling ' curtain ' . Trivia Note : Chloe Franks appears as a grown-up in the featurette included on the disc , and when I saw her I felt an immediate familiarity with her face but couldn't quite put my finger on it . Later , on reading her filmography , it was revealed to me that she had played one of the leads in the long-running stage adaptation of Agatha Christie's " The Mousetrap " in London's West End , which my brother and I were fortunate enough to catch while we there on holiday in the Summer of 2002 ! Needless to say , we had no idea then that she had once created such a delicate - and delicious - portrayal in sheer evil , mainly by virtue of her peculiar look and a devilish smile ! ! " The Cloak " : a wacky but oddly reverent vampire tale ( that still manages to debunk many of the myths attached to the subgenre , while inventing some new ones ! ) which takes in some wonderful digs at exploitation cinema and , at one point , Christopher Lee himself ! ; Jon Pertwee is marvelous as the campy horror star who gets more than he bargained for when he attempts to bring a measure of authenticity to his work ; Ingrid Pitt sends up her image nicely though her role is somewhat subsidiary to the proceedings ; Geoffrey Bayldon ( made up to look like Ernest Thesiger ) also has a memorably quirky bit ; the ' silent-cinema ' style of the ending was a pretty audacious one to pull on an audience , I suppose - and , while some of the humor comes off as heavy-handed a ' la THE FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS ( 1967 ) or THEATRE OF BLOOD ( 1973 ) , it's also rather infectious and certainly ends the film on a high ( and highly unusual ) note ! Video and audio quality are relatively satisfactory , considering I had no other version to compare it with ; the main culprit is some noticeable print damage but this is never so nasty as to affect one's enjoyment of the film . As for the extras , beginning with the Audio Commentary : frankly , this is one of the finest chats about a genre film that I can remember listening to ; Jonathan Rigby gets to butt in with his opinion more than is usual for a moderator but his effort certainly allows director Peter Duffell to touch on every aspect of the production ( whereas with some other films , you're left rather expecting there to be more ! ) and , as such , it's an extremely pleasant track that complements the main feature very nicely indeed . The featurette " A-Rated Horror Film " is a worthwhile effort with Peter Duffell again at center-stage but this time backed up with valid , if all-too-brief , contributions from producer Max J . Rosenberg and stars Chloe Franks , Ingrid Pitt and Geoffrey Bayldon . We also get film notes , reviews , bios and a poster / stills gallery which , again , are wonderfully assembled ( with the contemporary reviews being something of a novelty - and a welcome one at that ) .
HOUSE OF DARK SHADOWS ( Dan Curtis , 1970 )	To begin with , my expectations for this vintage vampire flick ? one of two cinema spin-offs ( but whose DVD release has been pending for several years now ! ) of the seemingly never-ending TV series ( putting paid to the prospect of acquiring it on DVD and of which I knew next to nothing beforehand except for the name of the lead vampire ! ) ? were considerable given the cult status of the franchise ( not forgetting my own impression of the other Dan Curtis work I'd watched thus far ) ; incidentally , I don't think the more recent " Dark Shadows " incarnations have had much of an impact . Even so , I couldn't help feeling let down to some extent by the result ? since , while it's certainly well done in most respects and highly watchable ( in spite of the over-familiar subject matter ) ? there's nothing really outstanding about it either ! Vampirism is clearly one of the horror themes which has , pardon the pun , been done to death most over the years ; yet , when handled with reasonable flair ( though negated somewhat here by the full-frame presentation of the Laserdisc-sourced edition I watched ? amusingly reverting to a blue-screen for a split-second at one point , denoting the end of Side A ! ) , it's able to retain all the fascination and chill-factor inherent within the subgenre . Incidentally , several vampire films made during this time utilized ? not always successfully ? a modern-day setting ; this , however , was one of the more effective because the vast estate around which much of the events revolve ? plus the old-style look of the vampire himself ( Jonathan Frid bearing a striking resemblance to Boris Karloff , with a bit of Harry Dean Stanton thrown in for good measure ! ) ? supplies the requisite Gothic touch in spades . As I said , it follows much the typical pattern of cinematic vampires : the undead Barnabas Collins obviously hides his true identity initially ; he practically enslaves the man ( John Karlen from DAUGHTERS OF DARKNESS [ 1971 ] ) who re-awakens him ( incidentally , it appears that the vampire was left chained inside his coffin for 200 years i . e . he wasn't killed in the traditional way beforehand ! ) without being turned into a vampire himself ? similarly , there's the usual illogicality in that some people become afflicted with just one bite while the heroine , conveniently , requires numerous ' sessions ' ! ; Collins ensnares a couple of women throughout , one of which is never seen again , but then incurs the jealousy of the other ? who's strong-willed and , therefore , more compelling than the lovely but rather bland heroine ? through his obsession with the latter , a girl who's ostensibly the reincarnation of the vampire's dead love ( she's not actually a descendant of hers , but just happens to be working for the family ! ) , etc . A couple of novel ( and interesting ) ideas , then , involve the middle-aged female doctor played by Grayson Hall ( she was excellent in the Tennessee Williams adaptation THE NIGHT OF THE IGUANA [ 1964 ] ) . Falling for Collins herself , she attempts to use her knowledge to cure his affliction ? by which treatment he's able to withstand sunlight as well as diminish his blood craving ; however , when he wants to speed up the process for the heroine's sake , the two fall out and he kills her , but turns soon after himself into a bald and wizened old man ! Thayer David contributes another impressive turn as the family lawyer ( like the rest of their various associates , he hardly ever seems to leave the premises ! ) who's actually the first to suspect of Frid's true nature . Unfortunately , while he had been played up as a formidable adversary for the vampire ( despite his penchant for referring to him as the " living dead " and , having mentioned this , there's an inconsistency as well with the fact that vampires shouldn't but are often seen to cast reflections in a mirror ! ) , David's then shown to have fallen victim to the curse himself off-screen ? which doesn't quite convince . I guess , though , that the purpose for this was two-fold : to upset audience expectations , but also to leave the gate open for a showdown in which hero ? who had barely featured in the plot until then ! ? and vampire contend over the former's girlfriend and the latter's intended bride ? with a little help from the vampire's own slave ( who happens to be smitten with the girl himself ) ! By the way , while veteran Hollywood actress Joan Bennett's role of family matriarch is given a prominent credit in the cast list , her participation is very small and ? even more disappointingly ? negligible ! All in all , the film is stylish and enjoyable ? with just the right balance of mood , thrills and even romance ; while the sequel , which is to follow , NIGHT OF DARK SHADOWS ( 1971 ) is said to be much inferior ( not surprising given its compromised current form ) , I'm still looking forward to an open-minded preliminary appraisal of it . Accompanying the feature is a frenziedly-edited trailer which , delightfully typical of its time , also contains such campy narration as " House Of Dark Shadows ? where death is a way of life " and ending with " Come see how the vampires do it " ! ! For the record , after this Curtis mini-marathon , I'll be left with at least two more interesting made-for-TV horror efforts ( both coincidentally broadcast in 1973 ) he was associated with ? the nth adaptation of Mary Shelley's FRANKENSTEIN and Oscar Wilde's almost-as-popular THE PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY ( the latter he only produced ) , both of which are happily readily available on DVD ?
THE MUPPET Christmas CAROL ( Brian Henson , 1992 )	A likable version of the familiar story : a collaboration between Walt Disney Productions ( who had already tackled the Charles Dickens classic in 1983 ; see my review of MICKEY'S Christmas CAROL ) and the Jim Henson company , with most of the characters ' played ' by the latter's popular Muppet figures ( Kermit The Frog is Bob Cratchit , Miss Piggy is Mrs . Cratchit , Fozzie Bear Mr . Fezziwig , etc . ) . interestingly , here we get two Marleys for the price of one ? ' played ' by Waldorf and Statler , the old guys in the balcony from TV's THE MUPPET SHOW ? but also The Great Gonzo as Dickens himself , who recounts the tale to a skeptical Rizzo The Rat ! Defeating competition from the likes of David Hemmings , Ron Moody and David Warner , Scrooge , then , is played by Michael Caine , who does well enough as the reformed miser , though he doesn't bring anything particularly novel to the role ; indeed , the script seems to be drawing most on the definitive 1951 SCROOGE and the 1970 musical version of the same name ? this too , in fact , has a number of songs ( the work of Paul Williams , written in his typically upbeat and catchy style ) . While the film does fall somewhat in the trap of not delivering enough of Scrooge or enough of The Muppets ( Miss Piggy's role , for instance , would be much bigger in a more typical effort ) , it's generally enjoyable with a fair number of funny bits : the very opening scene with a number of aristocrats patting themselves on the back for a great supper thinking on what they should do next and one of them suggests they have lunch ; Rizzo thanking Dickens / Gonzo for making him a part of the story ( even if only to clean the outer window of Scrooge's office ! ) ; Scrooge's terrified employees transforming themselves instantly into sun-loving beach-goers when the former complains about their overconsumption of coal ; the charity-seeking carol-singer in whose face Scrooge shuts his door is later shown freezing out in the street ; etc . Ironically , from what I recall of the various versions of the story I've watched , this one provides the most satisfactory depiction of the Ghost Of Christmas Present { he's even given the film's best song ! ) ; incidentally , Caine does a unremarkable bit of singing himself . Furthermore , checking on the IMDb just now , I learned that the version I watched is missing a song ! P . S . As I had written in my review of the 1935 SCROOGE , I was supposed to watch a good seven adaptations of " A Christmas Carol " during this festive season ? but , for various reasons , I could only make it up to four . . .
STRANGER THAN FICTION ( Marc Forster , 2006 )	While I had greatly enjoyed ? and admired ? Forster's previous film , FINDING NEVERLAND ( 2004 ) , it took some nudging from the owner of my local DVD rental outlet to catch this film ! His turned out to have been good advice as I found it to be quirky , delightful , intelligent and original ; somewhat in the vein of ADAPTATION ( 2002 ) but with a more optimistic outlook . I had never watched any of Will Ferrell's star vehicles before , but he really nailed every facet of his character here ( and was thus a deserving Golden Globe nominee ) ; similar care has been applied to the supporting cast : a charming Maggie Gyllenhaal , Dustin Hoffman ( who had also appeared in FINDING NEVERLAND ) , a slightly overstated Emma Thompson and Queen Latifah ( who , surprisingly , keeps a reasonably low profile throughout ) . Ultimately , though somewhat overlong , I feel that STRANGER THAN FICTION was perhaps more deserving of the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay than LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE ( 2006 ) ? except that it wasn't even nominated ! ? but , at least , the quality of Zach Helm's work has been recognized by being one of the 5 finalists for the WGA ( Writers ' Guild of America ) award , while the National Board Of Review deemed it the year's best .
THE HOUSE THAT SCREAMED ( Narciso Ibanez Serrador , 1969 )	While Leonard Maltin gives this a measly , it's garnered a cult reputation over the years ; having watched it myself , I'm of the latter persuasion ? even if the film isn't free of flaws . It's a stylish , Gothic mood piece ? typically slow but generally subtle ( there are hints of both lesbianism and incest throughout ) and with a few bravura touches ( the intercutting between a private flogging and collective praying in the dormitory , and especially the love-making sighs of one of the girls in the barn pasted over the images of her frustrated colleagues ) ; the murders are also quite well done ? displaying the right mix of suspense , gore and clever shock cuts . The cast is led by an authoritative Lilli Palmer ; her son is played by John Moulder-Brown ( best-known for Jerzy Skolimowski's DEEP END [ 1970 ] ) , while the girls include at least a couple ? Cristina Galbo ' and Maribel Martin , both in important roles ? who went on to appear in other fine " Euro-Cult " titles . The abrupt change of heart demonstrated by the Mary Meade character ( especially cruel during Galbo''s humiliation ) reminded me of Jess Franco's DEVIL'S ISLAND LOVERS ( 1972 ) , also revolving around a female institution , in which there's a similarly unconvincing about-face . It's also interesting that a number of the girls take turns being the focus of the narrative ( however , one major subplot involving the most rebellious girl in the school ? at her most defiant during the shower scene , which Palmer has them take clothed ! ? is bafflingly dropped later on ) . The revelation of the killer's identity isn't exactly a surprise , but it's still very effectively handled ( his modus operandi has surfaced in any number of subsequent films ) ; besides , the main theme of a mystery surrounding a girl-school setting looks forward to Dario Argento's SUSPIRIA ( 1977 ) . Incidentally , while the English-dubbed version displayed frequent ( and distracting ) lip-synch problems , at least it's available in the correct aspect ratio . Finally , the director only made one other feature-length film ? the equally well-regarded ( but just as obscure ) WHO CAN KILL A CHILD ? ( 1976 ) , which I will presently pick up on DVD via the recently-released Dark Sky edition .
MACHINE GUN McCAIN ( Giuliano Montaldo , 1968 )	This is a stylish , complex and exciting gangster melodrama ( which Leonard Maltin in " Movies & Video Guide " calls " junk " and awards a mere ! ) bolstered by an infectious Ennio Morricone score ( especially the title ballad ) . Amazingly , it was shown on Italian TV at the time of the Cannes Film Festival as part of a series of past nominees ; unfortunately , however , the print was of the choppy 94-minute U . S . version ( bearing the Columbia logo upfront ) and panned-and-scanned to boot ( making the Techniscope compositions pretty claustrophobic ) ! ! I've been unable to determine the film's original length , but I've seen running-times as long as 119 minutes ! The film is well-served by a great cast : an intense and fearless John Cassavetes as the title character , a delectable Britt Ekland as a girl he meets and marries on being sprung from jail ( who becomes an accomplice in his criminal schemes without batting an eyelid , at least in this version ! ) , Peter Falk as a bad-tempered small-time hood whose ambitions see him clash with his ruthless superiors , Florinda Bolkan as his even more avaricious wife , Gabriele Ferzetti as the crossed Don who goes to teach Falk a lesson ( and who seems to be having an affair with Bolkan ! ) , Luigi Pistilli ( rather under-used as Falk's right-hand man ) , Salvo Randone ( as the No . 1 Mafia Boss who keeps track of the situation from his New York office ) , Tony Kendall ( as the hit-man dispatched to eliminate both Falk and Cassavetes ) and " Special Guest Star " Gena Rowlands ( as McCain's tough old flame - together they were a legendary criminal double-act , and the real-life couple demonstrate undeniable chemistry in their one scene together ! - who , still having feelings for him , aids in his escape from the Mob and suffers the consequences for her actions ) . It's an interesting mix of ' styles ' : the Italians give it authenticity , the women a touch of class and the two male stars ( who , regrettably , don't share any screen-time but were eventually re-teamed in a gangland milieu in MIKEY AND NICKY [ 1976 ] - which I recently watched - and where they were practically inseparable ! ) an aura of intelligence . Some sources credit The Doors ' frontman Jim Morrison in the role of a lackey , but it certainly didn't seem like him to me ! The best sequence is the ingenious heist from a Las Vegas casino ( indeed , the glitzy and often sleazy locations are a definite asset ) and , in the cynical fashion of cinema in the late 60s , the films ends - rather abruptly - with a downbeat ' curtain ' . Montaldo didn't make that many films but from the three I've watched - the others being the enjoyable light-hearted caper GRAND SLAM ( 1967 ) and the excellent IL GIOCATTOLO ( 1979 ) , a Death Wish-type drama with a remarkable leading performance from Nino Manfredi - he certainly knew his business .
THE SLEEPING TIGER ( Joseph Losey , 1954 )	A certain Victor Hanbury is credited with directing this remarkable psychological drama but that won't fool any of Joseph Losey's admirers since it shares not only thematic similarities with one of his most notable American films , THE PROWLER ( 1951 ) , but was indeed the turning point of his career in many ways : blacklisted by Hollywood for his Communist leanings , Losey fled first to Italy and then to Britain , remaining in Europe for the rest of his days . THE SLEEPING TIGER also marked the start of a fruitful collaboration ( resulting in five films ) between Losey and star Dirk Bogarde , who here shows a definite maturity miles away from the bland matinée idol roles he typically played during this period ; the film itself has an intensity not found in contemporary British cinema . Alexis Smith ( terrific in one of her last starring roles ) and Alexander Knox ( playing his part in the Glenn Ford manner ? where a quiet exterior conceals a strong personality , hence the film's title ) are the married couple whose sheltered suburban lives are invaded by smart but incorrigible thug Bogarde ; Knox is a psychiatrist whom the young man had tried to hold up , but has the tables turned on him and is subsequently kept on in the former's house as a ' guinea pig ' ? echoes of BLIND ALLEY ( 1939 ) and THE DARK PAST ( 1948 ) ? where he stirs up the passionate instincts of the doctor's frustrated American wife . Needless to say , there's no happy ending for any of the characters : the climax provides plenty of fireworks and twists ? with Losey's ironic symbolism being maintained till the film's very last shot . Composer Malcolm Arnold adapts his score to the each of the film's moods , alternating between the sleazy and the histrionic . Unfortunately , the poor-quality Public Domain print I watched bears some evident signs of wear-and-tear as there are a handful of jarring jump-cuts throughout ( resulting in a running-time of 87 minutes against the official 89 ) ; several years back , the film was released on PAL VHS but no official DVD is in sight yet in any region ( a status , alas , in common with the majority of Losey's work prior to the 1960s ) .
JOE ( John G . Avildsen , 1970 )	A fascinating relic of the turbulent cultural / political aura of the late 60s ( taking in the class struggle as well ) which , ironically , in view of its outdated and occasionally embarrassing conservative views , makes full use of the permissiveness that prevailed for a while in mainstream cinema and which came about as a direct result of the liberal attitude it purports to criticize ! Norman Wexler's incisive Oscar-nominated script is superbly enacted by Peter Boyle ( in a powerhouse performance ) who manages to make his garrulous , down-to-earth yet hypocritical and opportunistic character ( with a barely-disguised fascist streak which comes to the fore in the remarkable violent conclusion ) likable , even admirable ; indeed , he comes across uncannily like a flabbier version of the young Marlon Brando ! Similar to other generation gap movies of its era like TAKING OFF ( 1971 ) and HARDCORE ( 1978 ) but also nihilistic vigilante films like DEATH WISH ( 1974 ) and TAXI DRIVER ( 1976 ) - interestingly enough , two of these also feature Boyle - JOE ultimately emerges as an engrossing and powerful drama which could have been a masterpiece if it had had a more experienced director at the helm . . .
MATANGO ( Inoshiro Honda , 1963 )	This is the seventh Honda film that I've watched but only the second that I found to be in any way satisfying ? the other being , of course , GOJIRA ( 1954 ) ; actually , I've got five more of his titles to go ( which I'll be checking out throughout the week ) ? though , in all honesty , I only expect the earlier effort RODAN ( 1956 ) to be any good ! The theme and setting of the film derives from a number of earlier horror / sci-fi classics : for instance , the flashback framework where the hero's tall tale is disbelieved by everyone ? not to mention the scene in which he's seduced to the ' other side ' by his transformed lover ? was certainly inspired by INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS ( 1956 ) . Conversely , it looks forward to another good Japanese genre outing i . e . GOKE ? BODY SNATCHER FROM HELL ( 1968 ) with its disparate group of stranded passengers and the influence on them of the unfamiliar ' contaminated ' environment ( which slowly but surely leads to the disruption of the unit ) . Incidentally , despite the distinction given to each of the characters ( psychologist , author , entrepreneur , skipper , etc . ) ? including two females ( one a sluttish chanteuse and the other a naïve student ) ? none are developed in enough detail to be allowed to take center-stage . Interestingly , too , the identity of the sole male survivor among them is not immediately disclosed ; the revelation at the end , then , takes proceedings into unexpected amour fou territory ! As for the mutant creatures ( the U . S . title of the film , in fact , was the catchpenny ATTACK OF THE MUSHROOM PEOPLE ) , they're quite silly-looking in themselves ? but , sensibly , these are mainly depicted as menacing shadowy figures . Though not quite the sci-fi masterpiece that Enrico Ghezzi ( eccentric presenter of " After Hours " , the programme during which the Honda TV marathon was held ) proudly claimed in his introduction , it's quite an engaging and effective piece ? if somewhat lacking in pace . All in all , I wouldn't mind owning the SE DVD of MATANGO from Media Blasters eventually ( also given the fact that the Italian subtitles on the version I watched were too rapid to read through at times , while the image itself suffered from occasional momentary freezing ! ) . . .
NOW OR NEVER ( Fred Newmeyer and Hal Roach , 1921 )	Being a three-reeler , this Harold Lloyd vehicle commands more attention than his typical short - though it's not quite as rounded as his feature-length films either ! Train-set for a good part of the duration , it provides plenty of gags characteristic to such a situation : being a stowaway with a small girl in tow , Lloyd has to devise several ways in which to avoid detection ; there's a lengthy scene in the berths ( at one point , Lloyd causes the train to make an emergency stop in the middle of the country-side simply because his spoilt ward wants a glass of milk ! ) ; and the star even contrives to find himself on top of the train as it's speeding towards a tunnel . As with many of his other shorts I've watched , a good enough comedy but these , somehow , aren't as highly regarded as the equivalent work of a Keaton or even Laurel & Hardy !
UNION STATION ( Rudolph Mate ' , 1950 )	Obviously modeled on Jules Dassin's superior THE NAKED CITY ( 1948 ) ? co-starring Barry Fitzgerald , meticulous police procedural , filmed on actual locations ? this film can certainly stand on its own two feet , being a tight and neatly-handled little thriller with plenty of action and suspense . Especially effective is a game of cat-and-mouse on a train between criminal and cop , which must have influenced THE FRENCH CONNECTION ( 1971 ) ! While it doesn't quite have the scope of the earlier classic , the film nonetheless makes the most of its situations ( revolving around a race-against-the-clock to save a kidnapped blind girl ) and settings ( the majority of the action taking place , naturally , inside the titular location ? with the tunnels underneath the station itself providing the backdrop for the climax , and which may well have been inspired by ending of THE THIRD MAN [ 1949 ] ) . Fitzgerald is once again excellent though , here , he rather plays second-fiddle to the nominal stars ? this being a Paramount film , it couldn't but be contract players ( William Holden and Nancy Olson in the second of their four teamings ) . Lyle Bettger is appropriately menacing as the sly chief kidnapper , while Jan Sterling appears as his soft-hearted girlfriend ( who suffers the consequences for demonstrating compassion towards her charge ) .
THE PORNOGRAPHERS ( Shohei Imamura , 1966 )	Similar to THE INSECT WOMAN in that , apart from its emphasis on sexual perversions ( all too clear from the title itself ) , it features multiple characters whose story ( even less clear , and more convoluted , this time around ! ) unfolds over a number of years - but it's also a more accomplished movie overall , showing Imamura's growth as a film-maker when compared to the generally rough quality of his earlier picture . Once again , the director here equates human beings with insects : in fact , this movie's full title is THE PORNOGRAPHERS : INTRODUCTION TO ANTROPOLOGY ! The " film-within-a-film " motif ( a couple of the main characters getting together from time to time to watch the amateurish skin-flicks they've shot themselves ) accentuates the picture's essential theme of voyeurism , all the while making the audience a knowing accomplice in it ; the very last shot , then , suggesting that the film we've just watched has itself been a mere " projection " , recalls a unique subplot found in Hiroshi Teshigahara's contemporaneous THE FACE OF ANOTHER ( 1966 ; which I've just viewed for the first time myself ) . Also notable is a hilarious scene involving a retarded girl whose lecherous , incestuous father tries to pass off as a porno actress and an equally amusing subplot in which the main character's wife believes her late first husband to have been reincarnated in a fish , and Imamura occasionally indulges us by showing the unfolding drama from its blurred perspective inside an aquarium !
THE MIND BENDERS ( Basil Dearden , 1963 )	Intelligent - and , at the time , X-Rated - sci-fi ( written by James Kennaway ) which I had always been interested in watching , given its theme and credentials . Featuring excellent performances by all the main actors ( Dirk Bogarde , Mary Ure , John Clements , Michael Bryant and Wendy Craig ) , fine black-and-white cinematography by Denys Coop and a good score by Georges Auric , the film deals with sensory-deprivation experiments which if over-exposed can render the subject susceptible to brainwashing . The idea is persuasively handled by the script and director Dearden , and actually predates Ken Russell's ALTERED STATES ( 1980 ) by almost 20 years ! Still , after an intriguing first hour - with its introduction of suspense elements ( where a scientist who has committed suicide is thought to have betrayed secrets to the enemy whilst ' under the influence ' ) and the realistic depiction of the harrowing experiments ( hinting at the supernatural ) , the plot is side-tracked into dealing with the domestic problems of Bogarde and Ure ( which are mostly talked about rather than seen ! ) brought on by his change in personality during his stint in the water-tank - conditioned by Clements ' Secret Service man and Bryant's fellow colleague , secretly enamored of his wife . As such , the treatment is somewhat too highbrow ( for the most part , it's made by people not usually associated with this type of film ) but it's fascinating - and generally satisfying - all the same .
THE SPOILERS ( Ray Enright , 1942 )	Rex Beach's Western tale was much filmed over the years ? including twice during the Silent era , and an early Talkie version co-starring Gary Cooper ; my brother had watched the 1955 color remake , which was O . K . but uninspired . This earlier adaptation , however , stands as a prime example of the genre from the more innocent pre-war era ; in fact , starting from the year after ? with William A . Wellman's THE OX-BOX INCIDENT ( 1943 ) , to be exact ? the Western achieved sudden maturity that would lead to any number of masterworks in various veins ( noir , psychological , elegiac , revisionist ) till it died out towards the late 1970s . Anyway , this is a quite splendid film with all three stars ( Marlene Dietrich , Randolph Scott and John Wayne ) in good form ; incidentally , all of them had just come from impressive individual work in the genre ? DESTRY RIDES AGAIN ( 1939 ) , Fritz Lang's WESTERN UNION ( 1941 ) , and STAGECOACH ( 1939 ) respectively . Having preceded the film by the trio's subsequent ( though lesser ) teaming , PITTSBURGH ( 1942 ) , it was interesting to see Wayne and Scott take turns playing the unsympathetic role ( in the case of the latter here , he emerges to be an out-and-out villain ? if a charming one , and to which he would return for his swan-song two decades later in Sam Peckinpah's RIDE THE HIGH COUNTRY [ 1962 ] ) . Incidentally , in both THE SPOILERS and PITTSBURGH , Scott is clearly depicted as being interested in Dietrich ? but she seems to prefer Wayne ( maybe because she did one other title with the latter , SEVEN SINNERS [ 1940 ] , which is to follow ) . The supporting cast is also quite strong : Richard Barthelmess and Harry Carey ( both of whom had been stars in the Silent era and had since settled in character roles ) appear as Dietrich and Wayne's sidekicks respectively ? the former is shady and the latter hot-headed , and each prefers to settle arguments with a weapon ( Barthelmess a flick-knife and Carey the shotgun he calls " Betsy " ) . Scott's gang of crooked associates is made up of Charles Halton , Samuel S . Hinds and , the latter's niece , Margaret Lindsay ( who was intended to seduce Wayne for the benefit of their scheme , but ends up falling for him ? the actress had been a leading lady of Warner Bros . pictures during the previous decade , but her poignant Other Woman role here is surprisingly well-written ) . The compelling narrative extends to many an exciting ( and , often , action-oriented ) development ? trial , bank robbery , jailbreak , train wreck , various instances where law officers face off or shoot it out with miners , and culminating in the famously brutal lengthy fistfight between the two male stars ( though this is somewhat spoiled { sic } by the obvious use of doubles in longshots ) .
McLINTOCK ! ( Andrew V . McLaglen , 1963 )	Lively star Western vehicle in comedy vein , patterned after NORTH TO ALASKA ( 1960 ) and with a " Taming Of The Shrew " - like plot that recalls THE QUIET MAN ( 1952 ; with the same leads ) ? both of which , incidentally , I haven't watched in a long time ! As John Wayne grew older , his films settled into being safe and unassuming family fare ? which this one certainly is , making it undeniably the least of the Batjac films released on DVD so far ! Through all these films , he managed to surround himself with reliable talent on both sides of the camera ? many of whom were already a part of " The John Wayne Stock Company " . The script by James Edward Grant , Wayne's favorite writer , provides plenty of amusing situations which are gleefully met by the cast ( particularly Chill Wills , Jack Kruschen and Strother Martin ) ? including a free-for-all in the mud , a fist-fight during a town celebration , a drunken encounter with a flight of stairs and the come-uppance of both female members ( Maureen O ' Hara and Stefanie Powers ) of the McLintock family at the hands of the Waynes ( father John and son Patrick respectively ) ? though the ponderous subplot involving the Comanches ' last stand ( headed by Michael Pate ) feels somewhat incongruous alongside the brawling and the slapstick and should , perhaps , have been dropped altogether . The supplements are of a similarly high quality as the rest of the Paramount " Batjac " releases : the Audio Commentary here is especially engaging for the way it places the film in the context of both Wayne's career and the revisionist attitude the Western genre would go through immediately afterwards ; interestingly , as was the case with HONDO ( 1953 ) , it's also mentioned that John Ford was asked to direct some sequences when the films ' respective director became indisposed ! Incidentally , I'll be watching the similarly boisterous DONOVAN'S REEF ( 1963 ) soon ? a film that has eluded me all these years despite being a perennial on Italian TV ! ? and which proved to be the last of the innumerable collaborations between Wayne and Ford . . .
KEOMA ( Enzo G . Castellari , 1976 )	Director Castellari is nowadays perhaps best-known ( if at all ) by the younger generation of film buffs for one thing : making the original INGLORIOUS BASTARDS ( 1977 ) , which Quentin Tarantino has been threatening to remake for years now . However , in my opinion , he should instead be remembered for making this impressive , belated Spaghetti Western gem . An odd blend of violent action and heady mysticism apparently concocted by one of the credited screenwriters Luigi Montefiori ( better known to hardened Euro-Cult fans as an actor under the alias of George Eastman ) but , as star Franco Nero and Castellari himself state in the Anchor Bay DVD supplements , the script took so long to get written that they decided to work without one and make the dialogue up as they went along ! That the end result is so satisfying ( and practically unique in the subgenre ) is a remarkable achievement in itself . Keoma is a half-breed returning home from the American Civil War to find his hometown ravaged by the plague and overtaken by the villainous Caldwell ( Donal O ' Brien ) ; among his cohorts are Nero's three half-brothers who had made his childhood a living hell , with his surrogate father ( William Berger ) and colored mentor turned banjo-playing town-drunk ( Woody Strode ) unable to do much to counter Caldwell's oppression . A Bergmanesque , cadaverous old woman is frequently seen roaming the streets dragging a cart behind her . . . What follows is the typical confrontation between Good and Evil but Castellari infuses the familiar mixture with several directorial flourishes : occasionally striking compositions ( particularly a memorably Fordian opening shot ) , frequent use of slow-motion in true Peckinpah-style , flashbacks in which Keoma is a spectator to his own past experiences ( inspired by Elia Kazan's THE ARRANGEMENT [ 1969 ] ! ) , a touch of elliptical editing , Christian symbolism ( Keoma is crucified at one point ) and , most distressingly of all , a folksy soundtrack ( inspired by Leonard Cohen and Bob Dylan , no less and warbled . . . er . . . sung by a shrill , high-pitched female singer and an out-of-tune deep-voiced male ) which narrates in song the action we're seeing on the screen . I say distressingly because the Guido and Maurizo De Angelis compositions found here have forever been a thorn in the side of even the film's staunchest admirers ! ! Personally , I didn't mind the female singer so much after a while but when her ( possibly drunk ) male companion took over in the last half hour , I was in for some cringe-inducing moments for sure . . . ! Despite these misgivings , the film is still one of the best Spaghetti Westerns out there ( and certainly the last great example of the subgenre ) ; its undoubted highlight is provided by a terrific , lovingly protracted action set-piece in which Nero , Berger and a reformed Strode ( back to his former arrow-shooting glory - perhaps a nod to the role he played in Richard Brooks ' splendid THE PROFESSIONALS [ 1966 ] ) wipe out most of Caldwell's gang . Their triumph is short-lived , however , because both Berger and Strode lose their lives in the ongoing struggle ( Berger poignantly so , while Strode's death scene is particularly great ) , with Nero almost bowing out himself under the strain of his siblings ' torture - who have subsequently disposed of Caldwell and taken over the town themselves ; the final confrontation , then , between Keoma and his three half-brothers is eerily set to the " strains " of Olga Karlatos ' ( playing a woman Keoma had earlier on saved from a plague-infested colony ) wailing and screaming as she lies giving birth to a child amidst the carnage ! While at first I was disappointed that the Anchor Bay DVD only included the English dub , having watched it now it seems clear that the actors were all speaking their dialogue in English on the set - although , as connoisseurs will certainly know , this was all re-recorded back in the studios anyway ( as was common practice in the Italian film industry ) . Still , if ever it gets shown again on Italian TV , I'll be sure to check it out just for completeness ' sake . Thankfully , however , Castellari contributes a highly enthusiastic and informative Audio Commentary in which he discusses his major influences while making the film , among them Sidney J . Furie's THE APPALOOSA ( 1966 ) , Altman's McCABE AND MRS . MILLER ( 1971 ) and Peckinpah's PAT GARRETT AND BILLY THE KID ( 1973 ) . Ultimately , Franco Nero in the title role is almost as iconic a figure as Django and , hopefully , I should be getting to another fairly obscure but highly intriguing Spaghetti Westen of his - Luigi Bazzoni's MAN , PRIDE AND VENGEANCE ( 1968 ) , an eccentric updating of Georges Bizet's opera " Carmen " , co-starring Klaus Kinski and Tina Aumont - pretty soon . . .
Hatchet For The Honeymoon ( Mario Bava , 1970 )	This film represents one of the few instances where I enjoyed an Italian film better in its English-dubbed incarnation ( another I can recall is CASTLE OF BLOOD [ 1964 ] ) , which I first watched via the R2 Anchor Bay DVD . Still , the fact that the Italian dubbing on the DVD rental edition I now checked out was newly-recorded – rather than what was originally shown to theatres ( the distinctive voice of the only Italian actress among the main cast , Laura Betti , is sorely missed ) – wasn’t an enthusing prospect to begin with . . . Anyway , the film is one of Bava’s most unusual – ditto for the giallo genre ; rather than having a variety of suspects among whom to determine the killer , here the hero ( who also acts as narrator ) tells us upfront who it is – himself ! This makes of it a sort of black comedy – even though handsome lead Stephen Forsyth doesn’t exactly set the screen on fire . . . and the film is , in any case , undermined by the deliberate pacing typical of the " Euro-Cult " style . Bava here also served as his own cinematographer ( with any number of smooth camera moves and striking compositions ) , and the result – with Forsyth’s villa and atelier ( the latter , a familiar giallo setting ) as attractive backdrops – is a beautiful-looking film ; the editing , too , is creatively done . The various murders are , obviously , among the film’s highlights – as is Sante Romitelli’s memorable score ( at once melancholically playful and creepily avant-gardist ) . Perhaps the most effective scene is Betti’s murder halfway through ( whom Forsyth kills while he’s decked out in a bridal veil ! ) – which is immediately followed by the arrival of the police on the scene to interrogate Forsyth on a previous victim ( where the wife’s blood dripping from the stairs and reflection on a table-top could give the killer away at any moment ) ; an amusing in-joke here is the fact that Forsyth had been watching a TV screening ( in black-and-white ) of Bava’s own BLACK SABBATH ( 1963 ) ! Also interesting are Betti’s numerous apparitions ( which again stresses the absurdist / psychological aspects of the plot , since this is clearly not a supernatural tale ) : at first , Forsyth can’t see her but everyone else can – so , to make doubly sure , he exhumes her interred body , burns it in his incinerator and , then , keeps her ashes constantly with him inside a leather bag ! ; when he’s finally captured , the situation is reversed – the wife determined to haunt Forsyth till his dying day ! Lovely " Euro-Cult " starlet Dagmar Lassander plays the heroine who , even though she’s eventually revealed to have served as police-bait for the killer every step of the way , demonstrates genuine affection for Fosyth throughout . Incidentally , the police inspector is unusually perceptive for this type of film and , at various points in the narrative , he lets Forsyth know that he’s his chief suspect – even equating the latter’s greenhouse ( where plants are made to grow in an unnatural manner ) with the inner workings of a madman’s mind ! While the final revelation isn’t really much of a surprise , it’s interesting that a piece of the puzzle which haunts Forsyth – he also receives intermittent visits from himself as a child , to act as a guide through his hazy past – is seen to fall into place with each new murder of a bride ! By the way , the film was an Italian / Spanish co-production written by Santiago Moncada – whose work includes two other fine " Euro-Cult " offerings , THE CORRUPTION OF CHRIS MILLER ( 1973 ; still unavailable on DVD , though I did get to catch it on DVD-R while in Hollywood in late 2005 / early 2006 ) and A BELL FROM HELL ( 1973 ) .
I MOSTRI ( Dino Risi , 1963 )	This is considered a classic of Italian comedy – one of many anthologies satirizing their way of life while showcasing the versatile talents of particular stars ( in this case , Vittorio Gassman and Ugo Tognazzi ) ; director Risi would himself later make the similarly episodic I COMPLESSI ( 1965 ) , SESSOMATTO ( 1973 ) and this film’s own sequel , I NUOVI MOSTRI ( 1977 ) – which , quite surprisingly , was a Best Foreign Language Academy Award nominee the following year . As with most films of its type , quality varies throughout the 20 ( ! ) episodes – some of these are so short that they’re over before having even begun , while others work their way to a punchline which can be seen coming a mile off ; however , a fair number of them are genuinely inspired and side-splitting to boot ( the general tone throughout , as befits the title , is one of irreverence ) . A few episodes include other name performers – such as Michele Mercier and Lando Buzzanca – but it’s Gassman and Tognazzi’s show all the way ( the two appear either separately or as a team ) . Armando Trovajoli’s upbeat score ( which is mixed with a handful of current hit songs ) is the perfect accompaniment to this entertaining and well-made compilation . My favorite episodes are the following : the opening one – in which scoundrel Tognazzi’s schooling of his nerd-ish son ( real-life offspring Ricky , later an actor and director in his own right ) works all too well , to his own personal detriment ; another where a gang of ‘thugs’ including Gassman kidnap an old lady ( apparently for the nth time ) . . . as it transpires not for ransom purposes but , rather , so that she can perform a dangerous and humiliating stunt involving a wheelchair-bound woman being thrown into a pool in a film whose director is Gassman himself ( in another role ) ! ; also , a courtroom drama in which simple-minded Tognazzi’s voluntary testimony is turned against him by the underhanded tactics of the defense counsel ( a flamboyant Gassman ) ; the most famous episode , then , is the concluding one with the stars as a couple of boxers way past their prime who decide to try their luck at the game one last time ( with Gassman in the ring and Tognazzi as his manager ) – we last see them flying a kite on the beach , Gassman having taken such a severe beating that he is reduced to a vegetable ! Other notable skits include the titular episode where a murderer is captured by a couple of cops – except that these are so ugly that one wonders who The Monster actually is ! ; one involving a soldier ( Tognazzi ) who meekly presents his deceased sister’s diary to a newspaper , ostensibly the one she was most sympathetic to herself . . . except that it eventually transpires that he was merely interested in how much he could make out of the salacious memoirs and that he naturally would let them go only to the highest bidder ! ; yet another deals with Gassman , living in the slums with a plethora of kids and relatives , cursing his rotten luck – and , yet , has no qualms about spending his measly pay on soccer matches every Sunday ( where he contrives to forget all his misery and lets rip with enthusiasm for the game ) ! Two ( minor ) episodes , then , play with issues of gender and sexual orientation : in one Gassman even appears in drag as a female literary critic ( who awards the " Book Of The Month " prize to none other than her own protégé , a novice author ! ) , and in another Tognazzi and Gassman play beach studs who discover they have greater affection for each other than their possible ‘preys’ !
THE NOTORIOUS BETTIE PAGE ( Mary Harron , 2005 )	I knew going in who Betty Page was and what kind of work she did to get her notoriety ; it's no surprise that the film is made by a woman but , thankfully , there's no overt feminist statement here - however , neither is there much psychological insight into the woman herself ! In fact , for all the ( admittedly quaint ) transgression involved - and considering the fact that Harron had previously made American PSYCHO ( 2000 ) - the film retains a fairly detached viewpoint , which rather betrays its being an HBO-funded project . Even so , Gretchen Mol is very adequate in the lead and the film is nonetheless interesting ( especially with the points it makes about censorship vis-a'-vis erotica and vintage Hollywood films , and the trial sequence towards the end which effectively puts the axe to Page's professional ' career ' and eventually leads to her spiritual rebirth ) and enjoyable ( thanks also to a practiced if low-key supporting cast that includes Jared Harris , Lili Taylor , Austin Pendleton and David Straitharn ) all the way through . Also notable is its vacillation between black-and-white and color : the former is perhaps too austere to be accurate , but the nostalgic oversaturated palette of the latter is quite effective and gives the footage an admirable home-movie quality .
THE MIST ( Frank Darabont , 2007 )	Of the 108 Stephen King adaptations for film or TV , I am only familiar with a handful of them – 16 to be exact ( counting also the film under review ) . Frank Darabont joins a list of remarkable past alumni ( Brian De Palma , Stanley Kubrick , David Cronenberg , John Carpenter ) with this well-crafted monster movie with pretensions . Actually , Darabont is no newcomer to Stephen King territory – having already based three of his four feature-length movies on his work ! – but this is the first movie I’ve seen from the director and , perhaps significantly , the only one of the three which is horror-related . Frankly , I wasn’t even aware of the film at all before reviews of its DVD release started cropping up on the Internet . As far as I can recall , it has not yet been released theatrically over here but , perhaps the name Stephen King ( because of rampant overexposure over the years ) nowadays no longer enjoys the same crowd-pulling effect as it did during his heyday . Still , judging by that modest crowd of actors assembled for the film and its clearly intentional " realism " ( read a flat , made-for-TV look and relatively restrained gore ) , the film-makers hardly endeavored to boost its box-office chances any . Besides , we have lately been literally invaded by monster / alien movies so that it isn’t hard for one ( even as solid as this one is ) to get lost in the shuffle . A small seaside American town wakes up one morning to find itself enveloped in a mysterious cloud of thick mist . Soon enough , it becomes abundantly evident that this houses a barrage of slimy , unnaturally-enlarged and very deadly creatures of the bugs variety . To this tried-and-tested formula , Darabont and King add other much-used elements ( religious fanaticism , military incompetence , scientific experimentation , impending apolcalypse , etc . ) but take them beyond their bleakest and most ironic possibilities . The last half-hour , in fact , is where the film gets all choked up in message-mongering – complete with an overwhelmingly melancholic score which seemed more appropriate accompaniment to a depiction of Christ’s Cruxifiction ( or something heavy and solemn like that ) . Indeed , learning that Darabont has even " presented " his own original black-and-white vision ( as opposed to version ) of this film on DVD only adds smoke to the fiery theory that this was intended from the start to be much more than a mere monster movie . Despite good work all around and the best intentions , THE BIRDS ( 1963 ) , it certainly ain’t . . . Anyhow , the festering tensions between the diverse factions trapped ( for most of the film ) inside a supermarket and the inherent suspense present in the group’s generally unsuccessful excursions on the " outside " are skillfully handled and , despite the anonymity of the actors involved , some of the townspeople are blessed with full-blooded characterizations , most prominently Marcia Gay Harden ( as the unbalanced , ultra-religious spinster who , after being derided for the longest time , manages to whip the crowd into a veritable frenzy when things start to go very badly for the heroic few ) and William Sadler ( as a bigoted redneck who cracks up after having a close encounter with the bugs and witnessing the extensiveness of their devastation ) .
THE BLOOD ROSE ( Claude Mulot , 1969 )	I had never even heard of this film before Mondo Macabro announced their upcoming DVD release of it , so I was surprised to find - after I had already ordered it online - that Leonard Maltin had in fact reviewed it in his Guide and gave it his proverbial rating usually allotted to such sensationalist fare . Even more surprising is the fact that I found this to be so good and engaging , despite being the nth revamping of one of my all-time favorites - Georges Franju's EYES WITHOUT A FACE ( 1959 ) . Also , I expected it to be much trashier ? considering the dubious epithet " the first sex-horror film " that's attached to it ; there is a reasonable amount of nudity here , but this is generally tastefully presented . Actually , it exudes a rather classy atmosphere ( with cinematography by the renowned Roger Fellous ) peculiar to French horror cinema ? similar , in fact , to other Mondo Macabro releases such as MILL OF THE STONE WOMEN ( 1960 ) , THE DIABOLICAL DR . Z ( 1965 ) , GIRL SLAVES OF MORGANA LE FAY ( 1971 ) and SEVEN WOMEN FOR Satan ( 1974 ) . Lead Philippe Lemaire is appropriately debonair as the celebrated painter whose life and career take a nose-dive once his wife is no longer able to act as his muse ; the actor later worked for Jess Franco and Walerian Borowczyk but , sadly , ended his own life in 2004 . Anne Duperey is luscious and graceful during the early section of the film : the girl's loving relationship with her husband is presented in some detail , so as to render her subsequent bitterness ( which even drives her to commit cold-blooded murder ) both believable and poignant . The appearance of her scarred features , then , is subtly handled throughout ( presented mostly as blurry POV shots ) and the make-up itself quite well done . The actress eventually broke into the mainstream with PARDON MON AFFAIRE ( 1977 ) , a successful comedy later Americanized as THE WOMAN IN RED ( 1984 ) . Howard Vernon provides a further link with the EYES WITHOUT A FACE prototype ? since he played the title role in Jess Franco's THE AWFUL DR . ORLOFF ( 1961 ) , a character to which actor and director would often return ( the last time in FACELESS [ 1988 ] , a viewing of which followed the next day ) . In THE BLOOD ROSE ( released as RAVAGED in the U . K . ) , he again plays the surgeon who aims to graft the face off a live victim : here , however , he's blackmailed into the task and actually doubts his own success ( his eventual fate , then , comes as a total shock ) . The dwarf manservants seen here may be something of a genre requisite , but they're actually well-integrated into the plot ? their rape / murder of a captive girl ( an intended , but obviously unwilling , face donor ) and subsequent beating by their disfigured mistress seemed a gratuitous digression at first , but it does help set up the film's wild and completely unexpected final act ! It's rather odd , however , that no revenge was visited upon the spited socialite who perpetrated Duperey's accident . The catacomb-like design of Lemaire's art gallery complements the Gothic atmosphere of his family château . As for the film's deliberate pace , this is characteristic of the " Euro-Cult " style ? typified by the scene in which an inquisitive girl is made to prowl the castle grounds for minutes on end . Unsurprisingly , Mulot ( who tragically drowned in 1986 ) later dabbled in porn cinema ? though the obscure crime film THE CONTRACT ( 1971 ) is considered as his best work . The DVD supplements include an interesting 23-minute interview with the film's assistant director ( and Mulot's brother-in-law ) , and a reasonably informative essay about the history of French horror cinema over the years ( going all the way up to the most recent examples ) .
THE RITE ( Ingmar Bergman , 1969 ; TV )	It's funny that I checked this out on the same day as PRISON ( 1949 ) : having found that film stimulating ( I'd been away from Bergman or Art-house cinema , for that matter , for a while ) after going through several Bela Lugosi films of late , I then found myself quite worn-out intellectually by the time I was done with THE RITE - which only confirms my previously-held belief that Bergman ( like his staunchest pupil , Woody Allen ) is best taken in small doses ! ; actually , this factor also goes a long way in explaining why his 5-hour marathon SCENES FROM A MARRIAGE ( 1973 ) and AUTUMN SONATA ( 1978 ) have been gathering dust among my extensive " DVDs To Watch " pile for the last 3 years already ! ! That is not to say that I didn't admire the film on an artistic level ( the rating alone attests to that ) , though stylistically constrained by having originated in TV - but which actually suits its claustrophobic tone and compact plotting ( the film is mercifully short at just 73 minutes ) . Still , the constant soul-searching ( often descending into hysterics ) is matched by no-holds-barred performances from a slim cast - which almost make it seem like a parody of the typical Bergman film : for one thing , the climactic re-enactment of the indecent ' rite ' ( for which a troupe of performers has been indicted before an outwardly tenacious judge , but who's ultimately revealed to be as angst-ridden as they are ! ) would be fairly risible - what with the male members of the trio sporting , for no obvious reason , huge black dildos as part of their costume - were it not for the hypnotic intensity of the mise-en-scene ! ! Needless to say , despite my reservations about the director's work in general , I'll still be renting the titles I haven't watched from Tartan's " Bergman Collection " which the owner of my local DVD outlet has said are on the way . . .
300 ( Zack Snyder , 2006 )	I wasn't really expecting to enjoy this epic / comic-strip adaptation but I was quite pleasantly surprised and even impressed by it ( watching it on the big screen decidedly helped ) ; while clearly superior to the more straightforward telling of the legendary battle in the Hollywood spectacular THE 300 SPARTANS ( 1962 ) , it's also certainly the closest approximation to a graphic novel that cinema has come up with so far ( the desaturated color scheme really puts one in the ambiance ) . The unexpectedly full-blooded acting ( especially lead Gerard Butler ) also managed to breathe life into stock characters often forced to mouth propagandist slogans ( though the Spartans ' battle cry , making them sound more like an American football team , is corny ) ! The battle sequences are among the fiercest ever depicted , even if the gimmicky editing distracts from their ultimate impact . Where the film tends to falter is in the unnecessary grotesquerie on display ? the lecherous Spartan leper priests , the conniving hunchback , the campily made-up Persian king and his ogre warriors , etc .
The Lawyer	Likable , if not terribly engrossing , courtroom drama in which Barry Newman originated his trademark role of opportunistic lawyer Tony Petrocelli ( reprised in a subsequent TV series ) . Generally well-handled by director Furie but the murder sequence , re-enacted in three different ways during the course of the trial , seems unnecessarily flashy . A smart script and a lively music score ensure that the film be an eminently watchable one . It seems more of a pity that director Furie , who started out strongly with films like this one and THE IPCRESS FILE ( 1965 ) would later end up helming third-grade action fare like the IRON EAGLE films or misbegotten would-be blockbusters like SUPERMAN IV : THE QUEST FOR PEACE ( 1987 ) . . .
NEVER WEAKEN ( Fred Newmeyer , 1921 )	This is one of Harold Lloyd's best shorts and the second of his thrill comedies ( in chronological order ) to be included in this collection . The film can be neatly divided into three sections : the first sees Harold ingeniously gathering patients for the despondent clinic where his beloved , Mildred Davis , works ( and which probably influenced Lloyd's later feature FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE [ 1926 ] ) ; the second , as was the case with many a Lloyd comedy , he goes through several failed attempts at suicide ( when he mistakes Mildred's clergyman brother for her lover ! ) ; the last third - and the undeniable highlight - has the star up to his neck in trouble when he ends up high in the air on a construction site ( featuring some of Lloyd's most incredible stuntwork , the whole idea was borrowed by Laurel & Hardy for the second half of one of their most popular Silent shorts , LIBERTY [ 1929 ] ) .
SALT OF THE EARTH ( Herbert J . Biberman , 1954 )	Renowned as the only American film to be banned in its native country , this rather amateurish drama about a miners ' strike ( made by openly Communist members , a number of which were blacklisted at the time ! ) inevitably recalls the masterpieces of Soviet propagandist cinema . Obviously lacking a comparable technique ( notable here only in the cross-cutting between a man being beaten up by cops and the pain endured by his wife during childbirth ) , the socialist ideology often gets in the way of the film's undeniable moments of power - particularly the tension created when the strikers ( and their wives , who eventually take up picketing themselves when a court order is enforced on the workers ! ) clash with authority . All things considered , despite its reputation as a classic of American cinema , I would say that SALT OF THE EARTH survives best as the important historical document it undoubtedly is .
THREE LITTLE PIGSKINS ( Raymond McCarey , 1934 )	With this fourth Three Stooges short , I feel like they’re growing on me as I liked it quite a bit ! Racketeer Walter Long ( a great Laurel & Hardy foil ) needs players who can be bought for a fixed game he’s organizing . His moll ( a young Lucille Ball ) and her companions meet The Stooges dressed in football gear – the boys are down on their luck , so they accept a job advertising for a football team – and , mistaking them for star players , bring them home . After the initial misconception about the men’s presence in Long’s apartment – leading to a delightful chase involving a base-less dumb waiter – The Stooges find themselves in a football stadium trying to make head or tails of the game , to the chagrin of the sinister-looking gangster ! The short’s football craziness and the hijinks in the apartment are clearly inspired by HORSE FEATHERS ( 1932 ) , one of The Marx Bros . ’ greatest vehicles .
RED GARTERS ( George Marshall , 1954 )	I’d been interested in this musical for a long time in view of its famously stylized look – bright yellow scenery , disembodies sets – which , in hindsight , is still the film’s major asset ( though , curiously , it’s taken for granted throughout and never once commented upon ! ) . The cast is low-key but undeniably engaging : lovely Rosemary Clooney is delightful and surprisingly sensuous at times ( although the title’s promise of naughtiness is not carried through ) ; Jack Carson is amusing as her loudmouth womanizing beau ( atypically , he’s the object of Clooney’s affection throughout ) ; Guy Mitchell is the gauche stranger hero looking for his crook brother’s murderer – simply because the Code Of the West ( which , actually , reminds me of a very funny Tex Avery cartoon ! ) , whom everyone takes off his hat to , demands it – and who falls for Carson’s sheltered ward ; and Gene Barry ( ! ) as the archetypal Latin lover who strikes up an unlikely partnership with Mitchell ( while , naturally , having his own romantic complications over the daughter of a judge from out-of-town played by veteran Reginald Owen ) . Frank Faylen – emerging as the real villain of the piece – is typically weaselly , while Buddy Ebsen appears briefly as a bartender ( but who still gets his own specialty number and is involved in an amusing fade-out gag ) ; besides , there’s resistible ( but not particularly intrusive ) comedy relief courtesy of a squaw character . After a funny introduction , too , Mitchell’s horse – who hates its own species and really itself human ! – is simply forgotten about for the rest of the film . There are a couple of nice spoofs of barroom brawls and duels , but rather too many ensemble dance routines which don’t really add anything new to the fold . The songs , while not especially memorable , are nonetheless fine – ironic and intimate as the case may be . . . but the plot itself is rather blah . The whole , then , is somehow less than the sum of its parts – if still highly enjoyable , even endearing ; in retrospect , it’s a pity that RED GARTERS has been overshadowed by other contemporaneous Western musicals such as ANNIE GET YOUR GUN ( 1950 ) , CALAMITY JANE ( 1953 ) and OKLAHOMA ! ( 1955 ) . Clooney , who also co-starred in WHITE Christmas ( 1954 ) , later ballooned into a really fat lady and is nowadays perhaps best-known as George Clooney’s aunt ; for eclectic film buffs , however , she is also Mrs . Jose ' Ferrer and Mrs . Dante Di Paolo ( from Mario Bava’s BLOOD AND BLACK LACE [ 1964 ] ) . Incidentally , George Marshall was the ideal director for this Western musical spoof – having previously directed DESTRY RIDES AGAIN ( 1939 ) and FANCY PANTS ( 1950 ) , and later still the color remake of DESTRY ( 1954 ) and THE SHEEPMAN ( 1958 ) .
RAILROADED ! ( Anthony Mann , 1947 )	This is another fine Mann noir ? though I'd personally rank it lower than , say , RAW DEAL ( 1948 ) or SIDE STREET ( 1950 ) . On the debit side are the weak male leads ? Hugh Beaumont as the cop ( though he's better here than in BURY ME DEAD [ 1947 ] ) and Ed Kelly as the framed boy ? and the somewhat familiar storyline . On the other hand , John Ireland ( surprisingly top-billed ) is impressive as the heavy and Jane Randolph ( hair dyed blonde ) makes for an interesting femme fatale ? but , just as striking , is lovely Sheila Ryan playing the spunky if naïve leading lady . As befits the genre ? in which Mann excelled , before changing course eventually with the psychological Western ? the film is at its best when relying on shadowy lighting to create mood or highlight moments of suspense , menace and outbursts of violence ( notably the final showdown between Beaumont and Ireland in a darkened bar-room ) . The film is available on an old and expensive bare-bones DVD from Kino , from which the DivX copy I watched was culled .
SUSANA ( Luis Bunuel , 1951 )	Last Sunday night , I was simultaneously listening to the Oscar ceremony over the Internet and recording this film being broadcast on Italian TV but shown in the original Spanish language . Every now and then I gave cursory glances at the TV , which I kept on but had the audio turned off , and couldn't help feeling that it seemed to me that SUSANA would be a very minor work from my favorite film-maker . Indeed , a minor film it undeniably turned out to be when I finally watched it yesterday ? which I didn't do earlier simply because my 28 " TV was bust all this week ! ? but , then , despite its lowly position in Bunuel's canon ( check out my personal ranking in " The Great Director's Checklist Series # 39 " ) , I couldn't help agreeing with what Vincent Canby wrote about it either : " SUSANA is full of the sort of Bunuelian touches that forever separate all of Bunuel's films , the potboilers as well as the classics , from those of everyone else " ! Anyway , here's my take on the film : though it never reaches the heights of the director's best work from his Mexican period , let alone his greatest , which runs from 1961 through 1977 , it's so focused in following through the deceptively simple plot line - which was allegedly inspired by Alexander Korda's THE SQUALL ( 1929 ) , co-starring Loretta Young and Myrna Loy , and which also reminded me of Jean Renoir's even more anarchic BOUDU SAVED FROM DROWNING ( 1932 ) and Pier-Paolo Pasolini's obviously more pretentious THEOREM ( 1968 ) - that it becomes a compelling viewing experience , even if in a low-key manner . Bunuel brings to the inherent melodrama his typical preoccupation with the rules and regulations which govern bourgeois lifestyle as well as the religious hypocrisy so crucial to maintaining its respectable façade ? but never for a moment does he forsake the technique which is required to put across all his points . In fact , SUSANA features effective shadowy lighting throughout , thus ensuring any number of striking compositions and scenes : 1 ) the very opening sequence with the rebellious Susana being dragged into solitary confinement hissing and spitting at the prison guards2 ) the shadow made on the ground by the cross-like bars in Susana's prison cell ( which she shares with an assortment of bats , rats and spiders ) ; she casually prays to God for deliverance , since she cannot help being who she is , after which Susana is able to effortlessly remove the bars and escape ! 3 ) Susana's face suddenly appearing at the window of the hacienda during a stormy night4 ) the pan across the courtyard of the hacienda showing Susana's room being watched by all her three admirers at the same time , without them knowing of one another5 ) Susana being violently flogged by Dona Carmen , when she realizes that the girl she has taken in out of kindness has disrupted the harmony of Don Guadalupe's home with her uninhibited behavior6 ) Susana being literally dragged out of the hacienda back to prison by the police officials Besides , Susana's constant dressing-down ( provocatively and purposefully exposing herself ) before appearing in front of the males of the household , is very amusing ? as is the put-down , at every opportunity , by them but also Dona Carmen , of the bible-thumping servant-woman who warns of Susana's deceptiveness from the get-go . The love scenes are pretty discreet but those involving the studious young son of the family take place in unconventional settings such as the library of the hacienda ( where the couple could be discovered at any moment by his God-fearing mother ) and inside a well , in which Susana purposely throws herself in order to be ' saved ' ( the rugged but equally enamored foreman then appears and , sensing their presence , throws in a rock after them ) . While the cast doesn't feature any stars , as some of Bunuel's later international films would , the three main roles are admirably filled ? Rosina Quintana as Susana , at once sultry and captivating ; Fernando Soler as the authoritative yet gullible Don Guadalupe ; and Matilde Palou as his long-suffering but indomitable wife . I would also like to say something about the assertion made by Ed Gonzalez in his review of the film ? which appears in " Slant Magazine " ' s section on the director entitled " The Savage Poetry Of Luis Bunuel " ? that there is an overt connection between Susana's voracious sexuality and Don Guadalupe's prize mare ( which is , apparently , sick and unable to breed during Susana's tenure at the hacienda ) : I wasn't aware of it at the time so it didn't bother me as much , though I obviously wouldn't put it past the film-maker to have intended just such a link . Finally , the so-called " cop-out " ending ? wherein everything goes back to normal ( the mare miraculously recovers and the dismissed foreman , who leads the police on the girl's trail , is reinstated ) , once the threatening presence of Susana has been vanquished , is nothing more than one last jibe by the director at our inherent complacency and the mistrust we show in the face of anything that would in any way alter our status quo . In fact , I tend to agree with Tom Vick who , in the " All-Movie Guide " database , wrote : " SUSANA's pointedly insincere ' happy ' ending is one of { Bunuel's } funniest " .
THE HORSE SOLDIERS ( John Ford , 1959 )	I had watched this several years ago and recall it being a merely average Ford outing ; the film improves on a second viewing ( even if it does go on too long – but more on that later ) and can be seen as a worthy belated follow-up to the director’s celebrated Cavalry Trilogy with John Wayne . Interestingly , this emerged as his only film to deal with the Civil War ( apart from the Ford-directed segment dealing with it from HOW THE WEST WAS WON [ 1962 ] ) . Typically , he takes no sides and the narrative resolves itself into a series of vignettes : the important sequence at the mansion of Southern lady Constance Towers ( she charms and openly seduces the Union officers but doesn’t think twice about spying on them – at which she’s caught and they’re forced to take her along for the ride ! ) ; the scuffle between the two armies at the Confederate station ( where the latter , badly-equipped , are massacred ) ; Wayne’s drunken confession to Towers at the saloon regarding his aversion to doctors ; the climactic resistance culminating with the blowing-up of a Southern bridge , etc . Other incidents , however , feel tacked-on – such as the quirky encounter with deserters Denver Pyle and Strother Martin , and the cornball one in which Southerner Basil Ruysdeal marches his military academy of young boys against Wayne’s troops . Though featuring a number of the director’s stock company of actors , the film displays a distinct ( and welcome ) lack of overt character comedy – which was something of a Ford trademark . This may be due to the fact that THE HORSE SOLDIERS came in between his most sober Western collaborations with Wayne , namely THE SEARCHERS ( 1956 ) and THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE ( 1962 ) . Wayne , here possibly at his most cantankerous ( given to frequent outbursts of rage ) , seems to function better as an actor when he has a strong ally / opponent . In this case , it’s William Holden ( his only film for Ford ) as a Union doctor reluctantly assigned to Wayne’s outfit , with whom he immediately clashes over the soldiers’ fitness for combat . Holden is bemused by Towers’ incongruous presence there , but dismayed at the necessity of Americans to slaughter one another ( at the station , he’s initially shunned by a mangled fellow West Pointer fighting on the other side ) and , finally , opts to stay behind at the mercy of the enemy with the wounded Union soldiers ; however , being mostly absent from the action , his role gradually wears thin . Towers’ indomitable Southern belle adds a breath of fresh air to the proceedings ( though she’s still involved in a requisite , albeit subtly-handled , romance with Wayne ) and the director seems to have liked her enough to feature the actress in his subsequent picture – SERGEANT RUTLEDGE ( 1960 ; which I need to pick up on DVD , released as part of a 10-Disc JOHN FORD COLLECTION Set from Warners ) . Unfortunately , THE HORSE SOLDIERS is poorly served by the R2 MGM DVD I watched – bearing prominent damage marks , dull colors , and defaults to an open-matte presentation to boot !
THE SMILING LIEUTENANT ( Ernst Lubitsch , 1931 )	" The Lubitsch touch " was all the rage at the start of Hollywood's Talkie era , which is why musical trifles such as this one or the preceding THE LOVE PARADE ( 1929 ) ? skilfully made and pleasantly risqué though they might be ? ended up being major Academy Award contenders for a spell . In fact , the film under review got its sole Oscar nod for Best Picture ? an achievement which would become virtually impossible in a decade's time . Popular Continental crooner Maurice Chevalier plays his typical role of a Viennese roué who steals the girl ( an almost unrecognizably young Claudette Colbert appearing as a concert violinist ) of his comrade-in-arms ( Charles Ruggles , who unaccountably disappears from the film after the first few scenes ! ) ; standing guard at the ceremony of visiting royalty , he creates a diplomatic scandal for seemingly winking at the naïve princess ( Miriam Hopkins ) when in fact he had been making eyes at Colbert who was watching the parade from the sidelines ! To make amends , he is forced to marry Hopkins but he is not about to be tied down to a life of luxurious boredom and slips out in the commoner's uniform of straw hat and tuxedo for a night on the town every chance he gets ; in the meantime , the flustered King comforts his lonesome daughter by playing chess in her boudoir ! Colbert and her bandmates give a recital in Chevalier's kingdom and she finds herself invited to the Palace ? but it's Hopkins who summoned her ? to seek advice on how to ignite Chevalier's passion ! Curiously enough , Chevalier had been unusually loyal to Colbert instead of his usual roving self and it is only on the latter's advice ( and her involvement in Hopkins ' jazzy makeover ) that he finally abides willingly to his marital duties . As is customary for Lubitsch , what is left unsaid is about as important as what is spelled out and THE SMILING LIEUTENANT provides the director several instances wherein to indulge his subtle wit : the very opening sequence showing a tailor , who had called at Chevalier's to demand payment , leaving when the door is unanswered while a girl is ushered inside soon afterwards by the accomplice-butler ; the sequence showing Ruggles trailing behind Chevalier and Colbert and carrying her violin case ; Colbert's indoctrination of the stuffy Hopkins into what the modern woman wears and which music she plays , etc .
Don't Deliver Us from Evil ( Joel Seria , 1971 )	I recently made a binge of DVD purchases , and among these were 6 Mondo Macabro releases I had been eyeing for some time . This is the first one I checked out , and it's a stunner - for several reasons ! I had never heard of the film before its DVD announcement - but now I feel that it's been seriously neglected and , hopefully , Mondo Macabro's wonderful " Special Edition " can give this title a new lease of life . Inspired by the same events which were eventually treated directly in Peter Jackson's HEAVENLY CREATURES ( 1994 ) , the film is a perverse little item with rampant anti-Catholicism at its fore and which , unsurprisingly , was banned when it emerged ; with this in mind , I love the way Mondo Macabro ended their description of it on the back cover : " It's a film that should be viewed only by those with very open minds " ! Concerning two teenage girls ' rebellion against their repressed upbringing by making a Satanic pact , in which they dedicate their lives to committing evil , it reminded me of other notorious " Chick Flicks " from the same era such as ALUCARDA ( 1975 ) and TO BE TWENTY ( 1978 ) . The film doesn't have much of a plot and is deliberately paced , but it's held firmly together by the deliciously malevolent performances of the two leads ( and particularly the untrained Jeanne Goupil , from whose viewpoint the events are related , and who subsequently hitched up with first-time director and former actor Seria ! ) . It seems to me that the reason the film is so obscure is that , when new , it was ahead of its time but , even now , it would be almost impossible to make ( despite the ostensibly graphic nature of French cinema today ) - featuring any number of shocking and potentially offensive images , which I won't spoil here for the uninitiated ! Still , I have to mention the disturbing double rape inflicted - or , rather , invited - upon Catherine Wagener ( though playing under-aged , the actress was actually 19 at the time ) and the incredible finale , set inside a crowded school auditorium , which is sparked { sic } by the two girls ' recital on stage of a strange poem by Baudelaire . The simple yet haunting music - performed on the organ or as a cantata - is highly effective , and the DVD extras ( featuring , among others , separate interviews with Seria and Goupil ) complement the film very nicely indeed .
WE’RE NOT DRESSING ( Norman Taurog , 1934 )	I can’t say that I was particularly looking forward to this musical comedy , but it turned out to be a very entertaining 1 hour and 14 minutes . Being a Bing Crosby vehicle ( albeit featured on Universal’s Carole Lombard set ) , there’s a plethora of dated romantic songs – and since a young ( not to say slim ) Ethel Merman appears in support , she chimes in as well . . . and so does comic Leon Errol ! Still , as I said , it’s a generally fun seafaring ride ( inspired by J . M . Barrie’s " The Admirable Crichton " ) – though given a rather silly and entirely meaningless title ! Also in the cast are another comic couple – George Burns ( who really achieved stardom after an Oscar-winning turn some 40 years later ! ) and real-life spouse Gracie Allen – and a young ( though somewhat stiff ) Ray Milland as one of two aristocratic parasites hoping to win Lombard’s hand . However , she’s got her eyes on crooning sailor Crosby – but , of course , their relationship runs far from smoothly ! Starting off on Lombard’s yacht , the group are shipwrecked on a tropical island ( thanks to a tipsy Errol sabotaging the boat’s commands ) – where explorers Burns and Allen ( ! ) are carrying out some kind of research . Actually , the two parties rarely interact : in fact , very little happens on the island itself – other than that the feckless idle rich are taught a moral lesson by the manly and resourceful Crosby ( anticipating Lombard’s own MY MAN GODFREY [ 1936 ] in this respect ) . It’s refreshing to find Lombard in a non-wacky role , but her performance is just as delightful as ever ; equally notable are the amusing contribution of Errol ( Lombard’s uncle but who’s sympathetic to commoner Crosby ) and the various antics of the harebrained Allen ( which includes her devising an unlikely and complicated method to trap wild animals ) . Even so , an amiable bear named Droopy ( Lombard’s pet ! ) steals everybody’s thunder – especially in the way it cuddles up to Crosby when singing a particular tune , and a hilarious scene in which the animal runs riot on the deck of the yacht after Errol fits it with skating shoes ! There’s even a joke at the expense of another Paramount star , Mae West , when a sailor describes the acronym ‘B . C . �� as ‘Before " Come Up And See Me , Sometime " ’ .
THE GAME IS OVER ( Roger Vadim , 1966 )	From what little I've watched of Vadim's work , this is his most consistently satisfying effort ( though the best overall film would still be his famous horror compendium SPIRITS OF THE DEAD [ 1968 ] , co-directed with Federico Fellini and Louis Malle ) . Based on a novel by Emile Zola ( curiously enough , the very next day I watched THE LIFE OF EMILE ZOLA [ 1937 ] , a superb Hollywood biopic ! ) , the film deals with a bourgeois family disrupted when the ageing patriarch's second and much younger bride falls for her husband's son from his earlier marriage ( who is her peer ) ; while the script isn't especially deep , the film is absorbing all the way . Impeccably shot by Claude Renoir , its garish style is very typical of 60s European Art-house cinema and the sitar-tinged score even gives it a psychedelic vibe ! The three main roles - Jane Fonda ( married to Vadim at the time and therefore still in her " sex kitten " days ) , Peter McEnery ( a surprising choice but a good one ) and Michel Piccoli ( effortlessly hypnotic , he's simply one of the finest - if largely unsung - actors of his generation ) - are splendidly filled . The ending is somewhat abrupt and unresolved but , again , it's totally in keeping with the times in which it was made !
THIS IS MY AFFAIR ( William A . Seiter , 1937 )	A bland title disguises this solidly-carpentered example of old-fashioned Hollywood entertainment , this film proves a largely successful hodgepodge of several disparate elements : a period piece , a romantic drama , a crime movie and a political thriller . Interestingly , though made by Fox , its protagonists ? Robert Taylor and Barbara Stanwyck ? were both usually associated with other studios ; their on screen chemistry here is palpable and eventually led to marriage in a couple of years ' time . While a bit too young , Taylor is a dashing hero ( a Marine personally appointed by President McKinley to uncover the culprits behind an organized clean-up of numerous banks ) ; unsurprisingly , no sooner has he tracked them down ( led by smooth Brian Donlevy and thuggish Victor McLaglen ) that he falls for a chanteuse ( naturally , Stanwyck ) who has thrown her lot with the gang ? although , truth be told , singing is far from being the actress ' forte ! Similarly , apart from having to prove his worth to make it into their fold , he has to vie with McLaglen for Stanwyck's attentions ; by the way , the practical joker persona of the former reminded me a lot of Charley Chase in SONS OF THE DESERT ( 1933 ) which , incidentally , was likewise directed by William A . Seiter . Later on , Taylor is in two minds about involving Stanwyck in the impending bait and tries to offer his resignation to the President while eloping with the girl ? but the jealous rival disrupts his plans . The robbery gone awry , we find Donlevy dead and the other two in jail ; Taylor's hopes for McKinley's intervention ? having meanwhile learned the identity of the elusive and obviously prominent ' inside man ' ? are seemingly dashed when the President winds up assassinated himself ( a great plot twist , though the resulting eleventh-hour suspense feels contrived ) ! To get back to the film's jumble of styles , even if the vaudeville sequences are a matter of taste , the romantic triangle slows things up and it skimps somewhat on the thriller aspect , this emerges a handsome production indeed ? with the actors already mentioned ably supported by the likes of John Carradine ( who unaccountably disappears after just one scene ! ) , Douglas Fowley , Sig Rumann and , as two American Presidents , Sidney Blackmer ( the bubbly Theodore Roosevelt ) and Frank Conroy ( McKinley ) .
THE BATTLE OF NERETVA ( Veljko Bulajic , 1969 )	There exist various versions of this film – running anywhere between 102 and 175 minutes ; the one I watched , dubbed in Italian , was itself around 142 – although the official Italian print is actually 134 minutes long ! Over the years , I had missed out on a couple of occasions to watch this – both on Italian and local TV , as well as a VHS rental . Given its title and roster of established international movie stars – Yul Brynner , Curd Jurgens , Sylva Koscina , Hardy Kruger , Franco Nero and Orson Welles – one could be forgiven for mistaking it as yet another WWII-set Hollywood epic a ' la THE LONGEST DAY ( 1962 ) and BATTLE OF THE BULGE ( 1965 ) . Consequently , its eventual nomination for Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award proves at first suspect and highly surprising but , in hindsight , well deserved since the film is actually a big-budget co-production between Yugoslavia , West Germany , Italy and even the U . S . A . While the film is mostly distinguished by the fact that it features an impressive array of battle sequences which must surely be counted among the most spectacular of its era , it must also be said that it takes care and time to show the effects that constant warfare has on the behavior of human beings : an explosives expert ( Brynner ) is renounced and spat at by his own people when he is forced to destroy their only way back home to stop the advancing troops ; two blind men leading each other during an airborne attack are led by the sound of another man’s voice already taking cover ; a partisan is driven crazy when stricken by typhus ; a proud Italian general ( Anthony Dawson ) commits suicide in a shabby room where he is held in captivity by the partisans ; an Italian captain ( Nero ) deserts his side to join the ranks of the partisans and is taken under his wing by an artillery officer ( Sergei Bondarchuk ) ; a brother and a sister ( Koscina ) , both members of the Yugoslav partisans , die together when hugely outnumbered during a deadly encounter with a band of long-haired renegade Chetniks led by a hesitant senator ( Welles ) ! ; a German captain ( Kruger ) comes to respect the determination of his enemies during combat , etc . Despite the various strands of plot touched upon and the multitude of major and minor characters involved , the unknown director weaves a clear and expansive picture of the river Neretva conflict – at least in the version I saw ; one can only wonder what an incoherent mess the shorter versions ( some of them accompanied by a new score by Bernard Herrmann , no less ) must have been ! Incidentally , in spite of that afore-mentioned Oscar nod , THE BATTLE OF NERETVA is still highly undervalued today – no doubt , its reputation is lost among the countless WWII actioners made both by Hollywood and Euro-Cult film-makers during the 1960s and 1970s .
THE BOY WITH GREEN HAIR ( Joseph Losey , 1948 )	Losey's first feature film was this unexpected Technicolor fantasy with a strong anti-war message . Dean Stockwell is a boy whose parents are busy doing war duty during the London blitz ; after they're killed , he's taken in by cheerful Irish former actor Pat O'Brien ( who bursts into song at the drop of a hat ) ? in perhaps the least typical scene in the director's entire oeuvre ( more suited to an MGM musical , in fact ! ) , he recalls his private performance before a European king ! Anyway , things take a curious turn when , in direct opposition to children's suffering in wartime , Stockwell's hair goes from black to green ( the color of Spring and , therefore , hope ) overnight . However , this defiant gesture isn't easily understood by either the boy's peers ( who take to bullying him ) or the local elders ( who treat him as an outcast ) ; amusingly , milk-man Regis Toomey drops his consignment of bottles off-camera when the physical change which has occurred in Stockwell finally dawns on him ! Medical science can't help the boy either , but a ' visit ' by other war orphans reassures him of the symbolic role he has to play . Even so , as with virtually every harbinger of an inconvenient truth , he still ends up victimized : his head is completely shaved and , running away , comes across sympathetic children's doctor Robert Ryan ( ! ) ? to whom the story thus far is recounted in flashback . Given the vital importance of color here , this emerges a very pleasant-looking film indeed ; the ensuing drama is remarkably well handled with , thankfully , little concession to sentimentality . Though there's regrettably too little of Ryan to counterbalance O'Brien's malarkey , the whole is undoubtedly boosted by the haunting tune " Nature Boy " ( which would somehow find its way effectively into the eclectic MOULIN ROUGE [ 2001 ] score ! ) .
Frankenstein And The Monster From Hell ( Terence Fisher , 1974 )	Hammer's last Frankenstein outing is one of their best ; despite the great sadness that went in its production ( inherent in the film's overall effect but thankfully not swamped by it ) , the film emerges as a pretty solid and well-crafted chiller with a remarkable Gothic flavor ( all the more impressive for being made on such shoddy finances - the film allegedly carried one of the companies ' lowest-ever budgets ! ) . Script and direction keep the action of the plot moving , despite the necessarily cramped settings . Peter Cushing and Terence Fisher's own personal state of minds create a poignant , almost elegiac ode to Gothic horror : this was to prove their final collaboration ( indeed , it was Fisher's very last film ) . The camera-work , James Bernard's score and the production design all contribute to make this a true harking-back to the heyday of Hammer horror ( in view of the fact that a lot of changes were effected during the early 70s with varying degrees of success ) ; still , along with BLOOD FROM THE MUMMY'S TOMB ( 1971 ) , DR . JEKYLL AND SISTER HYDE ( 1971 ) , DEMONS OF THE MIND ( 1972 ) and CAPTAIN KRONOS - VAMPIRE HUNTER ( 1974 ) , this is one of the last great Hammer films . The Baron had evolved a great deal during his sixteen-year period at Hammer ( producing seven films in all , only one of which did not feature Peter Cushing and only two were not helmed by Terence Fisher ) , reaching its zenith perhaps in FRANKENSTEIN MUST BE DESTROYED ( 1969 ) where virtually no trace of humanity could be detected in the character ! This final venture finds him more relaxed ( or , perhaps , I should say resigned ) but certainly no saner or less involved with his obsessive quest to achieve immortality ! ! The rest of the cast is equally admirable : Shane Briant , one of Hammer's bright young hopefuls , building upon his achievements in both DEMONS OF THE MIND and CAPTAIN KRONOS - VAMPIRE HUNTER ; Madeleine Smith graces the screen with her presence , managing to give her character ( an abused mute inmate ) an inner strength and compassion that would normally be difficult to communicate without words ; Dave Prowse's monster is a memorably designed hulk ( somewhat overdone in the style of Fredric March's Hyde persona in the 1931 version of DR . JEKYLL AND MR . HYDE ) but who unreservedly elicits the audience's sympathy because , saddled with numerous body parts that do not belong to him , he is forced to go on living when his sole desire ( possessing an ugly interior as well as exterior ) was to end it all ! ; a few supporting characters are allowed to shine as well , notably Patrick Troughton John Stratton and Bernard Lee . The DVD transfer is stunning , especially in widescreen . However , Paramount really dropped the ball by opting to release the edited U . S . version : I have to agree with those who condemned them for it , because the missing footage ( the artery clamping scene chief among them - as it stands now , the dialogue follows on too hurriedly , making the cut extremely obvious ; the scene was not particularly graphic , but it certainly amplified the Baron's character and his dedication to his work ) is certainly important and , if anything , helps keep the film's pace balanced as the ' stitching ' together of scenes { sic } is awkwardly handled on more than one occasion ( see also Bernard Lee's funeral , where Cushing suddenly appears beside the coffin when it is dropped to the ground ) ; similarly , the climax is marred by the loss of footage where the inmates tear the monster apart ( on the DVD it would seem that the monster was entirely made up bits and pieces of flesh , so easily he is dismembered , when we know full well this isn't so ! ) ; interestingly , however , though all these bits of added gore are to be found on my murky full-screen VHS , one shot from the DVD is not in fact present - the slashed throat of the John Stratton character ! The Audio Commentary is an immensely enjoyable and lively talk : though the subject matter wanders alarmingly , the relationship between the three participants is so genuine that one cannot help but be drawn into their reminiscences , opinions and idle chatter ; indeed , I'd go so far as to say that it's perhaps the best Commentary on a Hammer DVD I've heard !
NEVER EVER AFTER ( Mariano Baino , 2004 )	This is a modern fairy-tale , not too far removed from the world of Tim Burton . While Baino's feature , DARK WATERS ( 1994 ) , had revealed an interest in esoteric subjects and medieval settings , the three accompanying shorts on its No Shame 2-Disc LE demonstrate an equal affinity for creating suburban nightmares with a definite satirical tone . Though more accomplished than his earlier cruder examples , it's also clearly a step-down from the narrative denseness of DARK WATERS ? since this is basically a one-joke film and , at 13 minutes , the shortest title in the set ! Being a cautionary tale about women's obsession with their physical appearance , resulting in a less than ideal fate for its likable leading lady , it's interesting that the two mad doctors here ? amusingly called Dr . Frank and Dr . Stein ( Baino must have watched Hammer's THE REVENGE OF FRANKENSTEIN [ 1958 ] at some point ) ? are also female ; both of them , then , sport an outrageous coiffure and ham it up incessantly throughout ! It's all very stylized , undeniably amusing , and even includes its own " Making Of " featurette on the disc ( which I did not have time to watch yet ) ; however , one hopes that Baino can come up with a subject for a feature-length film that would adequately follow up his striking first effort . . .
Hammer House Of Horror : Rude Awakening ( Peter Sasdy , 1980 ) ( TV )	This is the best episode in this series so far , a rather intriguing tale with a DEAD OF NIGHT ( 1945 ) - like cyclical structure and a definite surrealistic flavor . I'd even venture to call it Bunuelian , given its progression of dreams-within-dreams ( a ' la THE DISCREET CHARM OF THE BOURGEOISIE [ 1972 ] ) and the fact that the hero's dreamgirl ? delightfully played by Lucy Gutteridge ? exchanges her look every time she appears to fit his current state-of-mind ( shades of THAT OBSCURE OBJECT OF DESIRE [ 1977 ] ) ! Denholm Elliott is perfectly cast as the initially smug , then bewildered estate agent who receives a mysterious visitor about the sale of a remote old property ? which sets him off on a nightmarish journey ( with events seemingly occurring over a period of days , but it's eventually revealed that only a full day has passed ) . Entwined in this plot is his attempt to get a divorce from his unattractive middle-aged wife in order to take up with the firm's sluttish secretary : eventually , he can't discern dream from reality ? and it all ends with his wife murdered , and the girl not as willing as he had believed ! Other dreams involve the demolition of a block of flats which Elliott and his secretary happen to be surveying at the moment , and the operation on the hero for the removal of a brain tumor carried out by the mysterious client and assisted by Elliott's own wife and ' lover ' !
JUST BEFORE DAWN ( Jeff Lieberman , 1981 )	I'd been postponing purchasing this one ever since its DVD release ? for one thing , because I'd been somewhat underwhelmed by this director's two other horror titles ( SQUIRM [ 1976 ] and BLUE SUNSHINE [ 1977 ] ) , but also the fact that the film itself is said to have been slightly trimmed for gore on the Media Blasters / Shriek Show 2-Disc Set ! I now chanced upon it as a rental and am glad I did ? because , not only is it superior to the earlier efforts ( at least , on this preliminary assessment ) , but I also found the film to be one of the better imitations of THE Texas CHAIN SAW MASSACRE ( 1974 ) . This factor , however , only helped remind me that I've yet to check out another such example ? Wes Craven's classic THE HILLS HAVE EYES ( 1977 ) , whose 2-Disc R1 edition from Anchor Bay I purchased some time ago but , after all , Halloween-time is fast approaching . . . Anyway , the film manages an effortlessly unsettling backwoods atmosphere ( it was shot in the forest and mountain regions of Oregon ) ? with plenty of effective frissons throughout but , thankfully , not too much violence ( even if the last of the villains is dispatched in quite an outrageous fashion ! ) . The principal young cast here ( one of them played by Jack Lemmon's son , Chris ) isn't quite as obnoxious as those we usually encounter in this type of genre offering ? despite freely indulging in the shenanigans one associates with teen-oriented flicks and which , by and large , persist to this day ! George Kennedy appears as a sympathetic Ranger ; though he doesn't have a lot to do , his characterization is decidedly enhanced by making him a lover of plant and animal life . Also notable among the locals is familiar character actor Mike Kellin in a nice role as the drunkard who first comes into contact with the murderous duo of the narrative ? his warning to the teenagers , naturally , goes unheeded but he's later able to lead Kennedy to them . The hermetic family the teens come across in the woods , then , is eventually revealed to be hiding a skeleton in their closet . While one of the girls displays genuine curiosity at the intruders ' presence , the rest are openly hostile to them ? and , in the case of the burly and uncouth twins , appropriately creepy ( one of them is even prone to maniacal laughter during his rampages ) ; at a certain point in the narrative , the Ranger even offers an interesting explanation as to the nature of their aggressive and generally uncivilized behavior .
FUNERAL PARADE OF ROSES ( Toshio Matsumoto , 1969 )	An all-night Italian TV program entitled " Fuori Orario " - which translates to " After Hours " - comprised of back-to-back films of all genres , nationalities and vintage , and hosted by an eccentric highbrow critic named Enrico Ghezzi - has for years been the fount of several interesting titles which , if it hadn't been for him , I would never have heard of , let alone watched ( though I'd say that about a third of the alarming 500 + still-unwatched films I own on VHS are culled from that program ! ) . Anyway , FUNERAL PARADE OF ROSES is one such example : when I learned it was scheduled to be shown , I made a cursory search via the Internet about the film and , from the little I found , I singled it out as one to record . However , I didn't watch it immediately ( mainly because , unfortunately , the tape I used for the recording was some 20 years old and still has a habit of halting playback automatically and subsequently refusing to load ! ; in fact , a couple of weeks back I lost two early Shohei Imamura films I unwisely taped on a similarly fragile VHS ) but , since that time , I've come across a few more references to Matsumoto's film - most recently its being announced as a forthcoming Region 2 DVD release from the impressive " Masters Of Cinema " label - which have only intrigued me even more . Then , yesterday , as I was listening to Tony Rayns ' Audio Commentary for Hiroshi Teshigahara's unusual debut PITFALL ( 1962 ) - incidentally a Eureka / MoC edition - he mentioned the film once again ( and , perhaps unwittingly , proceeded to give away the devastating plot twist at the film's conclusion ! ) in the context of its similarly unconventional nature . So , this time , I decided not only to watch FUNERAL PARADE OF ROSES at long last - whatever the condition of the tape which , fortuitously , turned out to be not too bad - but , being in something of an art-house / Asian cinema vein , I made a whole list of ( mostly just as obscure ) titles to follow . . . Now , after this long-winded introduction , let's get down to the business at hand : a potentially off-putting subject matter ( the trials and tribulations of a community of transvestites ) is transformed by the writer-director's aggressively experimental style , drawing on the contemporary free-form technique of European films rather than the cinematic conventions which are traditionally Japanese . In fact , the narrative ( if it can even be called that , in view of its many flashbacks , flash-forwards and repeated actions ) is frequently interrupted by having the cast sit down for interviews being filmed by a TV crew ; interestingly , Ingmar Bergman's contemporaneous THE PASSION OF ANNA ( 1969 ) used a similarly unique device to " explain " his characters ' motivations , as it were . Despite its generally serious tone , seemingly a requisite for an art-house film , FUNERAL PARADE OF ROSES is not devoid of humor or , at the very least , a distinct sense of the absurd : the catfight scenes between the " women " are shot in accelerated motion - a technique allegedly borrowed from this film by Stanley Kubrick for A CLOCKWORK ORANGE ( 1971 ) ! ; the scene of a trio of transvestites taking a leak in a men's lavatory ( much to the consternation of those present ) ; the linking image of a line-up of naked men with one of them having a rose firmly planted between his butt-cheeks ; a revolutionary hippie named Guebara having a sneezing fit in extreme close-up ; and the moment during one of the pauses for interviews when a crew member slinks past the camera filming the actor playing the man pretending to be a woman ( are you confused yet ? ) holding a dead rat by the tail ! With regards to Peter , the lead actor ( who , amazingly , later turned up as The Fool in RAN [ 1985 ] , Kurosawa's masterful adaptation of Shakespeare's " King Lear " ) , I have to say that he makes for a very convincing female impersonator - to the point where , if it weren't for his clearly masculine voice , one forgets that he's actually watching a man in drag ! The love scenes ( which , thankfully , aren't very explicit ) are sensitively handled and , in general , the film doesn't sentimentalize the gay community - nor does it criticize the drug scene which seems to be as much a part of their lifestyle as anything else . As I said earlier , I knew of the film's reversal of Greek tragedy at the climax from Tony Rayns ' commentary for PITFALL but , given its complex structure , I was still blown away by the revelation which , in turn , leads to an extremely violent ending that is not easily forgotten . By the way , I found the brownish hue of the black-and-white cinematography to be an interesting touch : I don't know if this was done intentionally , or whether it was just a feature of the print I happened to watch - but , at this juncture , I think I'd be somewhat disappointed if this unique " dirty " look were missing from the film once the upcoming DVD is released ( perhaps anyone who might own the Japanese disc could chime in about this ? ) . . . FUNERAL PARADE OF ROSES was , by all accounts , an remarkable debut feature for Toshio Matsumoto ; he followed it with only 3 more films but , from the little I've read about them , they sound interesting too and well worth seeking out ( so far they have only been available as part of a Japanese Limited Edition Box Set , though not all the films feature English subtitles ! ) .
TRUE CONFESSION ( Wesley Ruggles , 1937 )	It's not often that Leonard Maltin puts down a vintage Hollywood ' classic ' with top stars ( calling it " alarmingly unfunny " ) ? to find that same film , then , praised by an even more conservative critic as the late Leslie Halliwell seems even less likely ( while conceding it has " longueurs and a lack of cinematic inventiveness " , he considers it an " archetypal crazy comedy with many fine moments " ) ? and , yet , that's just the case with this film ! What's more , opinions about it continue to be mixed ? as DVD Savant's unenthusing review ( " truly a mess ? really unsatisfying ? this dog { of a comedy } " can attest ! ! So , I really didn't know what to expect here . I actually enjoyed TRUE CONFESSION a lot and feel it's one of Carole Lombard's better vehicles ? though not quite in the same league as her four top films , namely Howard Hawks ' TWENTIETH CENTURY ( 1934 ) , Gregory LaCava's MY MAN GODFREY ( 1936 ) , William A . Wellman's NOTHING SACRED ( 1937 ) and Ernst Lubitsch's TO BE OR NOT OT BE ( 1942 ) . The film has a wonderful premise : a female writer who's also a pathological liar admits to murder in order to promote the career of her struggling lawyer husband ( who only takes a case if the accused is honest ! ) . As I said , Lombard is somewhere near her best here ? especially disarming when adopting a literal tongue-in-cheek attitude as she's hatching a new ' plot ' . Male lead Fred MacMurray ? in his last of four teamings with her , three of which are included in Universal's Lombard Collection set ? plays second fiddle to the star , but his courtroom plea commands attention ( his naivete , then , is demonstrated when he and Lombard awkwardly re-enact the ' crime ' for the benefit of judge and jury ) . Savant is especially harsh on John Barrymore ( one of the great theatrical performers , he occasionally revealed himself a superb character comedian with an agreeable tendency to ham ) : I personally found his performance as an opportunist with a philosophical streak and an over-sized ego brilliant . He pesters Lombard's best friend , Una Merkel ( herself a delightful comic actress and a reliable presence in many a 1930s film ) , in the courtroom by first blowing and then taking the air noisily out of balloons ; eventually , he catches up with Lombard and MacMurray ( the former being guilty of perjury for having confessed to a murder she didn't commit ) and proposes a blackmail scheme ? which , however , blows up in his face . The supporting cast is equally well chosen : a typically nasty Porter Hall as the Prosecuting Attorney ; Edgar Kennedy ( the great Laurel & Hardy foil ) is superb ? and flustered as ever ? in the role of the investigating cop ; Tom Dugan , in one hilarious scene towards the beginning ? the role is strikingly similar to that played by William Demarest in another Lombard / MacMurray vehicle I've just watched , HANDS ACROSS THE TABLE ( 1935 ) ; and Irving Bacon ? again , his appearance is very brief but quite memorable as a befuddled coroner . The film was remade as CROSS MY HEART ( 1946 ) , with Betty Hutton in Lombard's role ? which I wouldn't mind watching if the opportunity ever arose , but don't really expect to be up to the original ( even if Maltin actually thinks it's superior ! ) . Trivia : director Ruggles ( incidentally , brother of comic Charles ) had a curious connection with Carole Lombard ; not only did he direct her and future husband Clark Gable in their only film together ? NO MAN OF HER OWN ( 1932 ) ? but SOMEWHERE I'LL FIND YOU ( 1942 ) , also starring Gable ? and which happened to be shooting at the time of Lombard's untimely and tragic death ! !
THE GRISSOM GANG ( Robert Aldrich , 1971 )	Given its considerable reputation , it seems incredible to me that I've had this film on VHS for over a decade but only now have I gotten round to watching it ! Actually , I opted to have a go at it finally after having just watched another James Hadley Chase adaptation - CRIME ON A SUMMER MORNING ( 1965 ) - the previous day . . . but also because , distressingly , many VHS tapes I've had for a very long time are starting to rot on me ! ! Made in the wake of the gangster-film revival spawned by the runaway success of BONNIE AND CLYDE ( 1967 ) , it can also be seen as a companion piece to Roger Corman's BLOODY MAMA ( 1970 ) . The film was much criticized at the time for its violence - coming in what is perhaps the cinema's most notorious year , with the likes of A CLOCKWORK ORANGE , THE DEVILS , DIRTY HARRY , GET CARTER and STRAW DOGS ! - but its gallery of grotesques is at least just as disagreeable ! ! It doesn't really have any sympathetic characters , but " The Grissom Gang " itself is such a lurid menagerie of harridans , dimwits and sleazeballs that one would doubtless need a shower after having spent two hours in this company ! For what it's worth , the film is extremely well made ( compelling , richly-detailed , exceptionally acted ) and even very funny if one is attuned to the director's uniquely absurdist and delirious mind-set . Still , its general unwholesomeness may well have curtailed Kim Darby's cinematic career - though here she demonstrates remarkable maturity when compared to her fresh-faced sparring with John Wayne in TRUE GRIT ( 1969 ) . Scott Wilson's role is perhaps the best he ever had ( even keeping in mind his impeccable work in both IN COLD BLOOD [ 1967 ] and THE NINTH CONFIGURATION [ 1980 ] ) - though his dumb backwoods hoodlum , alternating between mother-fixation and drooling over Darby , eventually overstays its welcome . Irene Dailey's relentlessly overwrought performance as Ma Grissom ( needless to say , the actress ' most significant role ) , then , borders on camp and matches Shelley Winters in BLOODY MAMA . Tony Musante embodies the stylish side of crime with his chic attire and playboy ways , who's bound to clash with Wilson over attractive kidnapped heiress Darby . Also notable in the cast are Connie Stevens as Musante's ill-fated moll , Robert Lansing as the journalist investigating the kidnapping case and Wesley Addy as Darby's contemptuous father ( who considers her ' tainted ' by the experience and actually doesn't want her back ! ) . The finale , then , with the majority of the gang decimated at their hide-out - followed by Wilson's come-uppance outside a barn ( after having spent the night with Darby for the last time ) is appropriately vivid . By the way , the novel on which this is based had been filmed in Britain in 1948 under its original title , " No Orchids For Miss Blandish " , but that version is only remembered - if at all - for how bad it actually was !
THE TENANT ( Roman Polanski , 1976 )	This was my second time watching the film ( via the French-language version as opposed to the first , which was dubbed in Italian ) and I feel that it improves on subsequent viewings . A compelling if slowly built-up character study that's beautifully shot and with the Parisian settings being equally impressive . In the long run , it's not top-grade Polanski and I would rank it at number 9 in his filmography but it's still a confident mix of subtle chills and , surprisingly , often broad comedy . It also features a fine cast , all of whom are in good form , but especially Isabelle Adjani , Melvyn Douglas and Jo Van Fleet . Even so , I'm a bit baffled by the sudden compulsion for Trelkovsky to ' change ' into the previous tenant ; apart from the owner of the café opposite the apartment building , where he is given whatever Simone used to have without asking him if he wished any different , there is little to indicate ( as far as I could discern , anyway ) that this is what everybody wanted of him ! Okay , so he found Simone's belongings still lying in the apartment but what exactly drove him to wear her dresses and make himself up as her ( even if he apparently started doing this unconsciously ) ? Following his nightmarish visions in the bathroom , the last section of the film ( where Adjani all but disappears ) is almost anti-climactic - especially the scene where the landlord and the other tenants witness his attempted suicide as if it were a night at the Opera , a concept which had already been used 46 years earlier by Jean Cocteau in THE BLOOD OF A POET ( 1930 ) ! The ending , then , is at once predictable and unresolved : just what made the two occupants of this particular apartment jump out of the window ? ! ; I remember this factor bugging me on first viewing as well , and I'm sorry to say it's no clearer now ! Mind you , the film's first two-thirds are pretty solid but I wish that Polanski had been less reliant on obscure plot points throughout .
THE LITTLE GIRL WHO LIVES DOWN THE LANE ( Nicolas Gessner , 1976 )	This is one odd little movie , a deft combination of the art-house with the " Grand Guignol " type of thriller – a character-driven mood-piece that’s undeniably gripping most of the way ( it loses some momentum during the second half , when the narrative takes up the budding love story between its two young protagonists ) . Also , the wintry locations and the melancholy score complement the unfolding drama admirably . The five main actors are all excellent : Jodie Foster has one of the most difficult roles ever tackled by a child ( which she carries with startling aplomb ) ; Martin Sheen is equally surprising as a slimy paedophile ; Alexis Smith is wonderful as the bitchy town bigwig – apart from being Sheen’s mother and Foster’s landlady ( the confrontation scenes between the two strong-willed females are terrific ) ; Mort Shuman is an Italian cop who befriends Foster ( he also contributed to the soundtrack ! ) ; and Scott Jacoby is the latter’s nephew , a crippled young magician who becomes embroiled – rather willingly – in Foster’s scheming . While considerable tension is created throughout , there’s little actual violence here ; nonetheless , the brief nude scene involving the under-age Foster is mildly shocking for a PG-rated film of the time . I’m somewhat ambivalent towards the ending , too : Foster is allowed to get away with murder ( but , then , the 1970s were a cynical decade ! ) ; besides , Sheen’s comeuppance – in spite of its delicious twist – doesn’t quite carry the impact it should because we had already suspected her of pulling the same nasty trick on Jacoby .
FEET FIRST ( Clyde Bruckman , 1930 )	This was Harold Lloyd's second Talkie but the first one I watched , since WELCOME DANGER ( 1929 ) is currently unavailable . It's a typical star vehicle and , in fact , the plot is quite similar to that of SAFETY LAST ! ( 1923 ) - from the shoe-store background replacing the department store of the earlier film ( hence the title ) to Lloyd's attempts at impressing his girlfriend by pretending to be a wealthy businessman and , of course , its lengthy climactic shenanigans of our hero dangling from the side of a building . Still , it's entertaining - and inventive - enough to stand on its own ( even if , being so dependent on sight gags , the dialogue scenes feel awkward in comparison ) ; the initial shoe-store segment involves Lloyd falling foul of the boss ' wife , while the middle section is set aboard a sailing ship ( which Harold contrives to be on along with the boss , his wife - who says she never forgets a face - and his own girl , the boss ' secretary and whom Lloyd thinks is actually his daughter ! ) . . . but the genuinely hair-raising stuntwork ( which , it must be said , sees no obvious repetition of the innumerable gags from the climax of SAFETY LAST ! ) is what really makes the film - also because it involves a lethargic black janitor ( played by Willie Best , appropriately nicknamed " Sleep ' n ' Eat " ) who , I'm afraid , wouldn't pass muster with today's PC-brainwashed audiences ( especially when dubbed " Charcoal " by Lloyd himself ! ) and who clearly results in being more of a hindrance than a help to Harold's singularly hazardous predicament . This was actually the star's fifth and final ' thrill ' picture , which also features regular character actor Arthur Houseman invariably - and somewhat irritatingly - playing a drunkard ; as for Lloyd co-star Barbara Kent , she's adequate , having already played his leading lady in WELCOME DANGER ( I was also surprised to learn that she was the heroine of Hungarian director Paul Fejos ' most renowned Hollywood film , LONESOME [ 1928 ] , a part-Talkie which I've only managed to catch in snippets on late-night Italian TV : I did record a recent broadcast of it , presumably shown in its entirety - as the film , curiously , still bears no opening credits or any underscoring of any kind ! ) .
Danger Man : Loyalty Always Pays ( TV ) ( Peter Yates , 1965 )	Back in the day , when the U . K . - based cable channel Bravo was transmitting respectable material ? namely classic British movies and TV series ? this popular effort was on virtually every weekday ; I used to catch snippets from it while awaiting for some film to start but , not being into TV at the time , I missed the show and others of its ilk . Having subsequently been much impressed with THE PRISONER ( 1967-8 ) , the other signature series featuring the same star ? recently-deceased Patrick McGoohan ? I regretted the fact all the more ; for the record , the whole run of DANGER MAN has been released on R2 DVD by Network and , in fact , this particular episode was included on their 2-Disc Set of HELL DRIVERS ( 1957 ) , in which McGoohan plays the flamboyant villain . Judging by this one episode , the series is very much standard secret agent fare for its era i . e . old-fashioned yet effortlessly stylish ( even on this meager budget ) , having exotic locales ( Africa , in this case ) for backdrop and where the hero emerges ? thanks to ingenuity ( including gadgets that would make James Bond's provider Q green with envy ! ) ? out of every fix with his coolness intact . McGoohan's trademark mix of smugness and intensity , however , gives the protagonist here the edge over most of his contemporaries ? which would eventually reach its zenith in the aforementioned THE PRISONER ( originally intended to be the same character , John Drake , in retirement ? but the intrinsic surreal / cerebral nature of the later series probably would not have jelled with DANGER MAN's more conventional ambiance ) . Anyway , the narrative of " Loyalty Always Pays " concerns McGoohan's attempts to obtain proof of an African Minister's secret arms dealings with the Chinese ; since the country was still under British jurisdiction at the time , he seeks the aid of military officer Nigel Stock to this end ( ensuring his co-operation by blackmailing him via an intricate fraudulent scheme and shaking the Major's apparent firmness of character into the bargain ) . The episode ( helmed by future action expert Yates ) is thoroughly engaging and very entertaining that is made even more palatable by the urgent notes of the series ' moody theme .
THE WIDOWER ( Dino Risi , 1959 )	With this , I’ve begun an 8-film tribute to Italian director Risi – who passed away recently at the venerable age of 91 . It features one of the country’s foremost stars in Alberto Sordi : personally , I tend to find his antics overbearing – but this is clearly a cut above his average vehicle and , accordingly , he delivers an excellent performance as an incompetent but proud lower-class man who only achieves success after marrying eminent society woman Franca Valeri ( a popular comic actress who here matches Sordi , dominating and mocking her spouse – calling him " Cretinetti " ( little idiot ) – at every turn , as well as being something of a philanthropist while refusing to finance any of Sordi’s own business schemes ! ) . Running parallel to its sharply-observed satire on industrialization and the class struggle , the film is a black comedy detailing the hero’s brush with the titular status . Starting with his recounting a dream where he joyously attends Valeri’s funeral , it later transpires that a train she was supposed to travel on has been derailed ( so he takes over his wife’s legacy and starts making all kinds of changes , as well as installing working-girl mistress Leonora Ruffo in his house ) . . . except that Valeri missed the fateful train – shades of Laurel & Hardy’s SONS OF THE DESERT ( 1933 ) in reverse ! – and , to her husband’s horror , turns up at their residence in the thick of the funeral arrangements ! ! Going through a period of meditation at a convent ( an incident probably borrowed from Luis Bunuel’s EL [ 1952 ] ! ) , he devises an elaborate plot – involving a trio of associates – in order to get rid of her once and for all . . . but , of course , this too goes tragically awry ( especially for Sordi himself ! ! ) . A very typical product of its era , the film is necessarily talky and frenzied in tone – but , nonetheless , emerges a stylish and often inspired comic offering ( notably the bare-back dress worn by Ruffo throughout the funeral reception , exasperating a usually bubbly industrialist no end . . . but which doesn’t prevent the latter from making the girl his own mistress , if only for a short while ! ) . Incidentally , the star had a number of similar generically-titled vehicles – such as THE BACHELOR ( 1955 ) and THE HUSBAND ( 1958 ) – which would suggest a form of loose trilogy , though they all had different directors ( and he played a different character in each ) . By the way , I have several other Sordi titles in my " Unwatched VHS " pile – including a quartet he directed himself . . .
IL PROCESSO DI SANTA TERESA DEL BAMBINO GESU ' ( TV ) ( Vittorio Cottafavi , 1967 )	During his 20-year retirement from the screen , renowned former " Euro-Cult " exponent Cottafavi dabbled exclusively in TV , making all kinds of stuff ; thankfully , a number of these programs have regularly turned up on late-night Italian TV over the last couple of years , though this is only the second I've watched . The film deals with the inquiry into the beatification of St . Theresa Of The Baby Jesus ; the process involves the interrogation of several of her fellow nuns , into the nature of her life within the cloister , by three clerics ? one of whom has been expressly appointed to act as Devil's Advocate in the matter ( an intense Paolo Graziosi sporting tiny rotund dark glasses , thus bringing a contemporary i . e . 1967 perspective to the table ) . Interestingly , what emerges says more about the interviewees themselves than it does about the subject ( with a final revelation involving one of the juror's own doubts vis-a'-vis the case at hand ) : while they all readily bestow piety upon her at first , as it turns out , further probing reveals that none of them seemed to like her much ? being envious of the girl ( who died at only 24 years of age ) and essentially mystified by her behavior ! For what is practically a studio-bound talk-fest , the 63-minute film proves an exercise in austerity ? perfectly understandable in view of the theme involved and lending it , in this way , the intimacy which best suits the medium .
DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY ( John Hough , 1974 )	I hadn’t intended to watch this just now but a couple of coincidences made it inevitable – once again , Vic Morrow has a featured role ( it’s chilling how the actor feared that , having to spend about half the running-time inside a chopper in this case , would be the end of him ! ) and it re-united director Hough and co-star Susan George from EYEWITNESS ( 1970 ) . This is among the most popular road movies from an era full of such efforts , complete with a memorable title and matching theme tune ; Peter Fonda and Adam Roarke , both of whom had flourished in biker movies during the late 1960s , here exchange their typical vehicle for a racing car . In this respect , it resembles most closely VANISHING POINT ( 1971 ) – as per one of the trailers on the Anchor Bay SE DVD , the two were even re-issued as a double-bill ! – though largely eschewing that film’s philosophical overtones . As can be expected , it’s generally fast-paced , tyre-screeching and stunt-heavy fun ; the film ( Englishman Hough’s first in the U . S . and which manages to capture that peculiar mid-American flavor ) , however , provides more than just the obvious kind of thrills . To begin with , the narrative opens with a supermarket caper ( the one scene in which an uncredited Roddy McDowall , fresh from the same director’s scary ghost story THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE [ 1973 ] , appears ) but we also get plenty of confrontation scenes ( and not just between fugitives and law enforcers , but within each individual group ) . This occasions some hilarious dialogue exchanges , such as when George rejects Fonda’s advances – he quips that the night before she had no qualms about it and , in fact , kept begging for more . . . but she retorts that that ought to have clued him in about just how little she was actually getting ! Similarly , veteran cops Morrow and Kenneth Tobey often clash about how to approach the manhunt : at one point , the former argues that the latter’s obsession with apprehending the fugitives is merely a middle-aged man’s grasping to hold on to his job but he’ll only be physically worn-out by the experience ( Morrow , then , believes that Tobey doesn’t want to put all he’s got into the chase simply because he’s been promised a new set of police cars – which , most likely , won’t be forthcoming if he proves overly efficient ! ) . As a matter of fact , one of the reasons the film ( which , according to the accompanying featurette , was partly improvised ) works so well is because each of the principal roles is perfectly cast – thus ensuring that characterization isn’t lost amid all the hair-raising action ; incidentally , the IMDb lists additional footage ( extending a couple of scenes ) that was utilized for the film’s network showings . Among the most notable stunts are : the one in which an impulsive young police officer’s car ( which he has " souped up " – after the original engine overheated – in order to keep up with Fonda et al ) is crushed by a falling telephone pole ; another flies through a billboard ; one more runs off the road backwards and ends up in a stream ; the fugitive’s own ‘classic’ Dodge Charger ( which they exchange midway through the chase ) leaping across a drawbridge ; and , of course , its climactic crash into a speeding train – giving the whole a fashionable , yet appropriately sobering , downbeat ending ( ominously , Morrow’s relentless chopper itself often looms perilously close to its quarry before ultimately running out of gas ! ) . I haven’t listened to Hough’s full-length Audio Commentary , but the half-hour documentary was nonetheless a pretty solid affair which covered most of the bases ; highlights included Fonda’s declaration that he idolized former sci-fi / B-movie hero Tobey ( despite sharing no scenes with him in the actual film ! ) , as well as the star’s surprised admission that DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY out-grossed even his signature effort EASY RIDER ( 1969 ) , not to mention the expected ( albeit brief ) but well-deserved tribute to Morrow – of the three titles I’ve watched with him over the past week or so , his contribution in this one was clearly the most substantial and satisfactory ( definitely proving him worthier of greater attention than merely for his acclaimed debut performance as the disaffected punk in BLACKBOARD JUNGLE [ 1955 ] and his ill-fated swan song ) . Finally , having enjoyed this so much , I was reminded that I’ve probably got scores of other films from the iconoclastic and eclectic 1970s in my collection which I’ve yet to go through . . .
That Damned Hot Day Of Fire ( Paolo Bianchini , 1968 )	I'd never heard of this one before its recent late-night Italian TV screening ; on a hunch , I looked the film up on the " Spaghetti Western Database " , where it's given a favorable write-up ? and I'm glad I did , because this is a solid entry within the genre . I also wasn't familiar with director Bianchini ? but , then , the same also held true for Mario Lanfranchi of DEATH SENTENCE ( 1968 ) , another unconventional Spaghetti Western I was impressed by of late . The film is enjoyable , reasonably stylish and displays plenty of invention throughout ; at the same time , we have to contend with some resistible ( albeit brief ) humor . It's also quite a violent offering : the hero is dragged by a horse , tied to a tree and beaten-up en masse , buried alive and shot at a number of times ( the film's single most startling moment ? which I'm amazed wasn't cut for TV ? involves the graphic extraction , in gloating close-up , of a bullet from his hand ! ) . The action scenes are undeniably well-staged ? with the hero always managing to outwit the villains and emerge victorious ( despite being greatly outnumbered ) . Having mentioned all of this , it's interesting that I should be following the film with the newest James Bond adventure ? I may be wrong here , but this Western seems to have been inspired to some extent by that highly popular franchise ( then in its heyday ) : the complex plot ( involving espionage at the time of the American Civil War , having a Gatling gun for the obligatory " McGuffin " , and where one of the characters is revealed to be a ' defector ' ) , dour womanizing hero ( with the leading lady typically picked out from the opposite side and another who's dispatched by the villains for her involvement with him ) , etc . Casting , too , is more than adequate : Robert Woods ( who would feature in a dire Spaghetti Western I'd watched not too long ago , SAVAGE GUNS [ 1971 ] , but also six Jess Franco movies ? including the haunting THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MIRROR [ 1973 ] ) , John Ireland ( excellent as an uncouth half-breed bandit who can throw a deadly knife with his toes { ! } and , to feign a tough exterior , lights a match against his bare feet and eats an onion raw ? though there's also an anti-racist angle surprisingly attached to his character ) , Evelyn Stewart , George Rigaud and Gerard Herter . With respect to the soundtrack , apart from an effectively atypical jazzy score by Piero Piccioni , there's a nice atmospheric touch in the constant buzzing of flies ( due to the oppressive heat ) . For the record , the framing on the edition I watched was slightly compromised by being opened up from the original Techniscope ( 2 . 35 : 1 ) to the 1 . 85 : 1 ratio . By the way , an alternate title for the film is GATLING GUN ? another Western by that name was made in 1973 ( and one which is readily available for DVD rental locally ) .
THE RIP-OFF ( Luciano Ercoli , 1977 )	This delightful caper spoof was one of the most pleasant " Euro-Cult " surprises I've had in recent times , especially when considering that it could have been lost to us altogether : it's ironic ? not to say chilling ? that reality would imitate art so soon afterwards ( the plot involves a kidnapping , and the producer was himself the victim of one in real-life , causing the film's release to be unceremoniously cancelled ! ) . I've always felt that the film's star , Walter Chiari , was the poor man's Vittorio Gassman : he's wonderful here , though ? and , in fact , his character ( a would-be crook modeling himself on Alain Delon ) especially recalls Gassman's stuttering mastermind in Mario Monicelli's classic BIG DEAL ON MADONNA STREET ( 1958 ) . The rest of the cast is equally well chosen : Maurizio Arena ( a chubby song-and-dance man in a run-down variety act ) , Ettore Manni ( a henpecked and alcoholic restaurant owner ) , Marisa Merlini ( Arena's possessive mother ) , Susan Scott ( as a prostitute and Chiari's old flame ) , Vittorio Caprioli ( an irritable wealthy industrialist whose son is the kidnap victim ) , Franca Valeri ( his wife , who strikes a deal with Chiari's gang for half the ransom price ! ) , Venantino Venantini ( as the French gangster behind the kidnapping and who has a penchant for S & M games ? the most memorable involving his private parts and a suitcase ! ? which Scott is all-too-happy to oblige ) . Chiari devises an elaborate scheme to double-cross the kidnappers by following their every move via a number of vehicles ( car hidden in moving van , motorcycle stashed in car boot , etc . ) ; the film's comedy quotient ( both verbal and visual ) is consistent and generally inspired ? with perhaps the most hilarious running-gag being the car about to pursue the kidnappers tumbling sideways out of the van onto the pavement . Though suffering from the occasional longueur due to excessive length , the film is buoyed by a most pleasant score from Gianni Ferrio ; ultimately , THE RIP-OFF emerged as a more satisfying effort than the gialli for which director Ercoli ( whose last film this proved to be ) is best known !
CARRY ON SCREAMING ! ( Gerald Thomas , 1966 )	This delightful spoof on the contemporaneous ? and equally popular ? Hammer Horror style is undeniably a highlight of the " Carry On " series : the film is remarkably evocative with respect to color scheme , sets , lighting , even the score ( though the rock'n'roll title track is somewhat unwarranted ) . . . but , then , it's regrettably neglected whenever genre parodies are discussed ( in my opinion , it's a must for any Hammer devotee ) ! The presence of series stalwarts Sidney James and Kenneth Connor is missed here ; however , atypical ' recruits ' Harry H . Corbett ( in his one and only " Carry On " ) and Fenella Fielding ( as a Morticia Addams-type nymphomaniac ? she had appeared in CARRY ON REGARDLESS [ 1961 ] as well as Hammer's own spoof , THE OLD DARK HOUSE [ 1963 ] ) more than make up for this . Among the typical horror elements we find here are Kenneth Williams as Mad Scientist , Zombie and Invisible Man all rolled into one , two Frankenstein Monsters named Oddbod and Oddbod Jr . ( a nod , no doubt , to Oddjob from the James Bond adventure GOLDFINGER [ 1964 ] ? it's interesting that the second creature is generated when electricity is applied merely to the missing finger of the first ) , two separate Hydes , a Mummy , plenty of wax figures , a sinister-looking butler , etc . Incidentally , the police investigation is redolent of a Holmes / Watson mystery ( after all , Hammer themselves had filmed a version of THE HOUND OF THE BASKERVILLES [ 1959 ] ) ? with Corbett and Peter Butterworth making for a great bumbling pair of sleuths . Series regular Charles Hawtrey only has a bit part here as a tell-tale lavatory attendant / gardener , but his messy death is hilarious ; ditto future Dr . Who Jon Pertwee as an eccentric police-lab technician ? ironically , there's a " Who's On First ? " - type routine concerning Williams ' character ( called Dr . Watt ) ! Jim Dale and Angela Douglas are again the young lovers , while Joan Sims ' role is practically a repeat of her nagging wife from CARRY ON CLEO ( 1964 ) . By the way , the flustered mannequin shop owner is played by Frank Thornton , later of the ARE YOU BEING SERVED ? ( 1972 ) TV series . As expected , Talbot Rothwell's script contains a lot of unsubtle puns ? but the film itself is capped by quite a terrific ( if hysterical ) climax to rival Hammer's best efforts .
CORRIDORS OF BLOOD ( Robert Day , 1958 )	Well , as it turned out , I needn't have worried that I would eventually regret my purchase of the Criterion set " Monsters And Madmen " - as this film proved superior to THE HAUNTED STRANGLER ( 1958 ) . Featuring literate dialogue and a more realistic story ( incidentally , inspired by the book " Triumph Over Pain " on which Preston Sturges also based his THE GREAT MOMENT [ 1944 ] ! ) , the film was made for something like twice the budget of THE HAUNTED STRANGLER and had the advantage of being shot on existing sets at the MGM-British studios . All of this allowed for an evocative and meticulous recreation of mid-19th century London , highlighting Geoffrey Faithful's cinematography and Anthony Masters ' production design . The film's opening sequence creates an admirable mood of mystery and dread , which is generally sustained throughout - propelled considerably by Buxton Orr's powerful score . Besides , here we have a truly remarkable cast - in my opinion , one of the best ever assembled for a horror film : Boris Karloff , Betta St . John , Francis Matthews , Christopher Lee ( impressive as the quietly-spoken black-clad resurrectionist ) , Francis de Wolff , Adrienne Corri , Yvonne Romain , Frank Pettingell , Finlay Currie , Basil Dignam and Nigel Green . While the film has some thematic points of reference with the Jekyll & Hyde story ( already dealt with in THE HAUNTED STRANGLER ! ) , Karloff's mad doctor cycle over at Columbia during the early 40s ( though all of these had contemporary settings ) , as well as THE BODY SNATCHER ( 1945 ) , it manages to hold its own perfectly well - and , as such , succeeds in avoiding the pitfalls of cinematic convention into which THE HAUNTED STRANGLER falls ( rather than physically turn into a monster , here Karloff becomes addicted to chloroform ) . The film has been much criticized for its supposed gore , but it's really quite tame ( perhaps it's the intensity of the operation scenes that does the trick , suggesting a lot more than it actually shows ) ; I know the present version is slightly incomplete , but even the few seconds of deleted footage found among the supplements isn't all that graphic ! Even so , I really liked the way in which slow motion is utilized for the climax when acid is thrown into a character's face . The accompanying Audio Commentary is just as entertaining as all the Tom Weaver / Richard Gordon tracks I've heard : most fascinating here is the discussion centering around the film's chequered history - CORRIDORS OF BLOOD ( by the way , though also known as DOCTOR FROM SEVEN DIALS , it was never shown under that title ) was released in the U . S . as part of a double-bill with the low-brow Italian horror WEREWOLF IN A GIRLS ' DORMITORY ( 1961 ) , which I watched a few months back ( on the other hand , THE HAUNTED STRANGLER was paired with another Gordon production , the maligned but quite effective sci-fi FIEND WITHOUT A FACE [ 1958 ] , also available as a " Special Edition " from Criterion ) . Just as informative are the separate interviews featuring director Day and co-star Francis Matthews ( he hates his performance and , amusingly , implores the audience not to watch the film merely for his sake ! ) and the audio-only career overview with starlet Yvonne Romain ( I was surprised to learn that she's half-Maltese and , apart from enjoying her recollections of the various distinguished leading men throughout her career , I was especially glad that she mentioned the ironic fact that Oliver Reed - with whom she appeared four times in film and TV - died in Malta ) . Finally , I didn't generally mind the fact that both this and THE HAUNTED STRANGLER were presented full-frame rather than being slightly matted so as to duplicate their theatrical exhibition - but there was quite a bit of overscan during the credit sequence of CORRIDORS OF BLOOD . . .
VENGEANCE IS MINE ( Shohei Imamura , 1979 )	Ambiguously-titled and multi-faceted , this is probably the best film I've watched so far from the director ( who , coincidentally , died just a couple of days prior to my first viewing of it ! ) . This is far more than merely the case history of a criminal ; indeed , despite being based on true events , the film still emerges as typical Imamura in its revolving around a family unit , the multiple characters , its emphasis on sex and suggestion of incest , brothel milieu and the elliptical narrative ! VENGEANCE IS MINE also marked the director's return to feature film-making , having spent the previous 11 years shooting documentaries subsequent to the failure of his 1968 epic THE PROFOUND DESIRE OF THE GODS ( 1968 ; which I had recorded some time ago off Italian TV , but the tape unfortunately was scrambled ! ) . As always , the entire cast delivers excellent performances and many of them were duly honored for their work here . The film is long but never boring , indeed fascinating in its methodical , deliberately-paced approach and especially the clinical detail of the chilling crimes ( though some of these actually occur off-screen ) . Imamura inserts several subtle instances of surrealism ( most notably a series of freeze-frames at the conclusion ) without them appearing incongruous in the face of the realism that is otherwise demonstrated . Alex Cox's video introduction on the MoC / Eureka SE DVD is brief but insightful , but Tony Rayns ' full-length Audio Commentary and the accompanying 36-page booklet are customarily comprehensive .
THE ARRANGEMENT ( Elia Kazan , 1969 )	Adapted by Kazan from his own novel , this ambitious if little-seen ( at least in my neck of the woods ) character drama emerges as an absorbing and highly personal adult piece , but one which is also pretty heavy-going and somewhat uneven in quality . Still , the director elicits excellent performances from his entire cast ( with the star trio baring more than their souls in front of the cameras ) ; Kirk Douglas is particularly impressive in one of his most interesting roles ( certainly at this stage of his career , here playing the son of Richard Boone who , in real-life , is actually a year younger than Douglas ! ) . . . though Kazan , in his autobiography , seemed unhappy with having to make do with him over his first choice , Marlon Brando . It's strange that he hadn't thought of Douglas immediately to personify his alter ego on screen , since both had been immigrants and the actor would therefore have an instant connection with the character ; actually , I feel that Brando's brooding intensity - as opposed to Douglas ' dynamic hysterics - would have worn the film down even more than it already is . . . and , in any case , Marlon got to do his " mid-life crisis act " three years later in LAST TANGO IN Paris ( 1972 ) ! What is essentially an old-fashioned melodrama , particularly given the lack of young actors involved , it's brought up-to-date - and , one might say , to life - by a variety of cinematic tricks ( which sometimes exasperate the spectator , as if Kazan had gone through one too many viewings of Richard Lester's strikingly similar PETULIA [ 1968 ] ! ) : multiple flashbacks and fantasy sequences ( Douglas has visions of mistress Faye Dunaway everywhere , and even has her morphing into wife Deborah Kerr during a love scene ) ; we also get visualizations of his interior monologues in which the younger , successful Douglas straightens out his older , bitter self ; and , at one point , there's even a fist-fight underscored by cartoon captions a ' la the campy 1960s " Batman " TV series ! ! On the other hand , the film's production values - as is to be expected from a glossy studio product of its time - are tops . Leonard Maltin strangely rates this one a BOMB in his " Movie Guide " ; true , it may not be top-tier Kazan but it's nowhere near as bad as he seems to think it is . Curiously enough , I followed this viewing with the director's subsequent film , THE VISITORS ( 1972 ) , also awarded the unenviable " bottom-of-the-barrel " accolade from the genial critic . . . though , in its case , it's a bit more understandable - as can be perceived from my own comments below !
THE BLOODSTAINED BUTTERFLY ( Duccio Tessari , 1971 )	I only heard about this giallo recently , but it's undoubtedly one of the best examples of the subgenre that I've watched . Besides , from the little I've checked out of Tessari's work so far ( incidentally , I've just recorded his Spaghetti Western A PISTOL FOR RINGO [ 1965 ] - which I'll catch up with soon enough ) , it's easily his most significant effort ; I should also be getting to PUZZLE ( 1974 ) , another giallo of his , in the near future . THE BLOODSTAINED BUTTERFLY ( as ever , the title is only peripheral to the main narrative ) - which opens with an identification of all the major characters - is especially notable for its complex editing structure , with details of plot related throughout in abrupt flashes ( as either part of a lengthy trial sequence , which occupies the majority of its first half , or during troubled lead Helmut Berger's regular fits , which remain unexplained till the finale ) . While characterization is somewhat aloof ( with no real female counterpart to Berger , despite a fair number of women in the cast ) , the principal actors are well chosen and also include such familiar Euro-Cult faces as Carole Andre ' ( playing a murdered victim ) , Evelyn Stewart ( the wife of the suspected killer ) , Silvano Tranquilli ( the police detective assigned to the case ) and Wolfgang Preiss ( the prosecuting attorney ) . The narrative is a bit on the seamy side - encompassing ( if ever so discreetly ) rape , infidelity , paedophelia , pornography , prostitution , etc . - but welcome comedy relief is provided by the interaction between the flustered Tranquilli and his long-suffering junior partner . Unlike many films of its ilk , the audience is kept guessing as to the identity of the villain up to the violent climax ( resulting in a curt but satisfyingly bleak ending ) and , just as thankfully , the script dispenses with the idea ( popularized by Alfred Hitchcock's PSYCHO [ 1960 ] ) of presenting a forced last-minute explanation - wherein a psychiatrist is appointed to dig into the killer's past , in order to extract some lame motive for his misdeeds . Typically , however , the eclectic score ( courtesy of Gianni Ferrio ) is masterful - especially in the way a Tchaikovsky symphony is seamlessly woven into the soundtrack ! The film is available on a bare-bones DVD from both Italy and Spain - but it more than merits a decent release in R1 through , say , Blue Underground ( given their predilection for such " Euro-Cult " offerings ) . . .
LITTLE CHILDREN ( Todd Field , 2006 )	I had watched ? and been sufficiently impressed with ? this director's acclaimed previous film , IN THE BEDROOM ( 2001 ) ; the follow-up effort proves to be altogether more accomplished . Again , we're treated to a variety of suburban neuroses ? which I can't help feeling some of the characters bring upon themselves ( more on this later ) . Anyway , the director has the temerity to stretch the melodramatic proceedings ? essentially revolving around three interweaving plot threads ? to a hefty 137 minutes . That it doesn't collapse under its own weight is due to a perceptive script ( compounded by pointed narration ) and excellent performances ; the actors generally manage to steer clear of hysterics ( which only really come into play towards the end ) . Both the talent and beauty of leading ladies Kate Winslet and Jennifer Connelly is on display here ? though the latter's role is rather small and colorless . I'm not familiar with either of the actors playing their characters ' respective husbands ? in this case , it's Winslet's husband who fares the worst ( as he's inexplicably absent throughout most of the film , except when the director needs to harp on his particular mania ! ) . Jackie Earle Haley is effectively understated in a difficult role as a convicted paedophile ; he obviously incurs the wrath of the neighborhood which is full of kids ? and is hounded by an ex-security officer who , as it happens , had been disgraced himself after accidentally shooting and killing a child ! As I said , the director makes it hard for the audience to empathize with anyone ( despite paralleling Winslet's character with one of the most famous tragic heroines of literature , Madame Bovary ) because the people concerned can hardly help themselves . The two couples don't really do anything to save their respective marriage but , in the end , the straying partners ? no doubt burdened by the presence of a child in each of their lives ? seem uncommitted towards taking that decisive step to freedom . Connelly and her husband manage to remain together after a stupid skateboarding accident , but things seem less certain in Winslet's vapid household . As for Haley , every time he manages to move us by his predicament ( a combination of ' sensitive soul ' and ' mama's boy ' ) is then offset by some needlessly punishing exhibition ? the incident at the pool , the way he ruins his one chance at a date , and the inevitable final act . Well-made and acted , therefore , but essentially contrived ? and , like the director's previous outing , the film doesn't lend itself easily to rewatchability in view of its subject matter ( not so much the controversial issues as the soap-opera elements ) and considerable length . . .
THE BAT ( Roland West , 1926 )	Like WEST OF ZANZIBAR ( 1928 ) , this was a much-desired Silent ‘horror’ classic even if I had already watched the plot in action , so to speak , via a couple of Sound remakes – the 1930 version ( from the same director ! ) and a later one made in 1959 . Actually , this first adaptation of a popular ‘old dark house’-type play of the 1920s – when these proliferated in both mediums – was long considered a lost film ; I watched it , in fact , via a serviceable 16mm print which suffered from constant ( though not overly distracting ) combing whenever characters moved ! To get back to the later versions , I’ve enjoyed THE BAT WHISPERS ( 1930 ) twice in its " Grandeur " i . e . early Widescreen format – I own the now out-of-print Image / Milestone DVD ( which also includes the alternate " Standard " edition filmed simultaneously by a different cinematographer , but I’ve yet to check it out ) . Now , the film seems to elicit mixed reactions from most viewers ( including myself ) : that is to say , being impressed with its distinctive visuals ( spare but stylish production design , clever models – both qualities also evident in the original – and fluid , ground-breaking camera-work ) yet being put off by the unfortunately archaic comedy relief supplied by an ugly and diminutive middle-aged maid ( still , this ‘fraidy cat’ figure was something of a pre-requisite for the subgenre concerned ) . The 1959 film was a major disappointment on first viewing ( dubbed in Italian ) – despite the presence of an icon like Vincent Price ; I do recall liking it a bit more in English ( re-watched by way of a budget DVD I rented ) , but the result still lagged far behind either Roland West version ! Now that I’ve caught up with the original as well , I can safely say that it more than holds its own alongside THE BAT WHISPERS ; I’m not always partial to directors remaking their own work but , in spite of my even greater reservations about the maid’s histrionics in the later version ( remember that we can also hear her now and , therefore , is all the more liable to get on one’s nerves ! ) , as I said , the gliding cinematography – presumably intended to emulate the movements of a real bat – was a lot more pronounced in the remake . . . where we also had archetypal lines ( missing from the 1926 film ) such as " Reach for the ceiling ! " that were even parodied by Tex Avery in the cartoon short WHO KILLED WHO ? ( 1943 ) . The intricacies of the plot – revolving around a remote country estate which is gradually inundated by people ( relatives of the current elderly female tenant , the doctor charged with her care , employees of the house’s recently murdered banker owner accused of embezzling funds , police officers on the trail of arch-criminal " The Bat " whose intended crime at the bank was anticipated but who has followed the culprit to the premises , etc . ) – are pretty much identical , and the result equally entertaining . Incidentally , while the villain here sports a grotesque bat mask , in the 1930 film he exchanges this for a black cape ( thus both helped give cartoon artist Bob Kane the idea for Batman , extending also to that character’s trademark ‘Bat Signal’ ! ) . It’s been some time since my last viewing of THE BAT WHISPERS , so I’m understandably fuzzy about some aspects : I know the villain adopts a particular disguise in order to roam freely about the house – but he goes by different names in each version ( the one from the remake is also present in the original but it turns out not to be him after all and is , in fact , a bit of a buffoon ! ) ; both , then , feature a suave male lead – Tullio Carminati ( in his first American film and looking an awful lot like Rudolf Kleine-Rogge ! ) here and Chester Morris in the 1930 version ( I’ll be seeing him presently in another title by director West , the noir precursor ALIBI [ 1929 ] ) . For the record and , as far as I can recall , the only other films in this vein from the Silent era I’ve watched were the interesting but lesser THE MONSTER ( 1925 ; yet another Roland West picture – with Lon Chaney , no less , though their individual styles didn’t really jell ) and two outstanding efforts by similarly gifted film-makers , namely Paul Leni’s THE CAT AND THE CANARY ( 1927 ; itself adapted three more times for the screen ! ) and Benjamin Christensen’s SEVEN FOOTPRINTS TO Satan ( 1929 ; which is an even rarer title than THE BAT – since the copy I own only carries Italian intertitles which , luckily , I’m able to understand ) . Trivia : leading lady Jewel Carmen was married to her director at the time ; apparently , the couple remained on friendly terms after their separation and she would , in fact , become involved in a restaurant business with him and future companion Thelma Todd ( a venture which , however , ended badly with the latter’s notorious and still unsolved mysterious demise in 1935 ! ) .
DEATH RIDES A HORSE ( Giulio Petroni , 1967 )	This is one of the most legendary Spaghetti Western titles ( also because , until recently , it was so difficult to watch in decent form having fallen into the Public Domain ) , a fine revenge drama well handled by former documentarist Petroni ( this was his first genre effort ) - though it's somewhat overlong and slowly-paced to boot ! Once again , we have the tension-filled relationship between two unlikely characters - one the experienced and betrayed ex-con Lee Van Cleef and the other the brash and hate-filled youth John Philip Law - both gunning after the same gang seeking revenge . They're not exactly allies but when one hasn't preceded the other and their paths cross , they tend to help each other out ( though it's more often Van Cleef who has to watch over the still-green Law ) ; in one memorable and oft re-used scene , the latter is interred up to his neck and left to the mercy of insects , vultures and the scorching desert sun ! The villains include Euro-Cult favorite Luigi Pistilli ( his role here was basically replicated for Sergio Corbucci's THE GREAT SILENCE [ 1968 ] ) and veteran British actor Anthony Dawson . The twist at the end - also one which has seen much service , particularly in recent thrillers - is very effective , threatening to dissolve the growing friendship between the two men ( Van Cleef has actually come to consider Law as the son he never had ! ) and which compels them to a face-off ( with surprising results ) . Ennio Morricone's odd and mostly vocal score was actually utilized by Quentin Tarantino for his KILL BILL ( ) saga . I had first watched this via a PD-release and this re-acquaintance came by way of a VHS recording off Cable TV , still in an English-dubbed ( though , at least , featuring the leads ' own voices ) pan-and-scan version ; I was aware that the film had been issued on R2 by MGM , though I wasn't sure if the Italian track was included . Still , in spite of the lowly price , the utter lack of extras has dissuaded me from a purchase - given that it's yet to receive an official release on R1 and it may very well turn up in a SE from Italy ( the director's subsequent film , TEPEPA [ 1968 ; reviewed below ] , received the deluxe 2-Disc treatment , with Petroni himself contributing an intermittent Audio Commentary ! ) . . .
ZODIAC ( David Fincher , 2007 )	David Fincher’s fifth feature film takes him back to the territory of his second film and greatest success , SEVEN ( 1995 ) – the serial killer theme . Here , however , he concerns himself with a real-life , unsolved case which shocked – and fascinated – America for the best part of 20 years . The film is quite long at 158 minutes , but the intriguing subject matter and the incredibly detailed scrutiny of the case makes for compulsive , if occasionally heavy-going , viewing . The film basically divides itself into three sections – the first part deals with Robert Downey Jr . ’s troubled crime reporter ( he actually became a target for the killer at one point and eventually self-destructs in a haze of boozing lethargy ) , the second with the police investigation itself – conducted by Mark Ruffalo and Anthony Edwards – and especially the effects it has on the former’s career ( he is eventually taken off the case and transferred to another division for tampering with the evidence ) and , finally , cartoonist Jake Gyllenhaal’s obsessive odyssey to decipher , track and eventually meet the Zodiac which takes its toll on his family life and costs him his job at the paper . Overall , the film is of a high quality on a technical level with any number of impressive scenes ( the opening murder sequence to the strains of Donovan’s " Hurdy Gurdy Man " is a cracker ) and a couple of good performances ( particularly Downey’s and Brian Cox’s psychoanalyst ) but it does have its undeniable flaws , too : the characters played by Gyllenhaal and Ruffalo come off as unsympathetic when contrasted with Downey’s effortless charisma , there is perhaps too many newspaper conferences and not enough depictions of the murders , there is certainly little or no attempt to identify the cause of Zodiac’s behavior and , after almost three hours and after all those years , the prime suspect is still the same one ( although I can’t say I was completely convinced of it myself ) despite the occasional , effective red herring ( apparently being an old movie buff is a pre-requisite for serial killer suspects ) . In hindsight , it seems incredible now that it took the various investigating forces 22 years to track down the one surviving victim of the Zodiac killings but , by that time , the prime suspect would go on to die of a heart attack . . . Finally , one thing I especially liked was that the Zodiac was apparently inspired to commit his crimes by a classic horror movie , THE MOST DANGEROUS GAME ( 1932 ) – while his own exploits themselves inspired an iconic piece of cinema , DIRTY HARRY ( 1971 ) !
PEEP SHOW : THE LIE CHAIR ( TV ) ( David Cronenberg , 1975 )	This is an effectively eerie piece which has the feel of a one-act play : a couple are stranded in the countryside on a rainy night and seek shelter in house nearby . When they knock at the door , they're welcomed as the guests the elderly owner had been expecting for dinner ; the maid asks them to play up to the old woman ? but it soon transpires that she's just as batty and deluded ! In fact , the people they're supposed to be have been dead for some time ! Other weird goings-on include : when the couple ask the owner to use the phone , she tells them they don't have one ? however , when enquiring about an extra place at table , she tells them it's for the handyman ? but he phoned saying he got caught up in town because of the storm ! ; also , they hear the voices of children when approaching the maid's room but , on opening the door , she's all alone ! The twist is that , as if by a spell , the couple are slowly turning into the persons they're pretending to be : a particularly chilling moment occurs when the man wonders where he might find a pair of pyjamas in the room they've been assigned and his wife , who obviously had never been there before , casually indicates the exact drawer where they're kept ! The last scene sees all four people having breakfast and gleefully reminiscing about the good old days ! Incidentally , the title is a reference to a chair in which the hero's ' grandfather ' would sit with him and make-believe to while away the time .
MUNCHHAUSEN { The 2004 Restored Edition } ( Josef von Baky , 1943 )	I first watched this in the early 1990s on Italian TV ; back then , I didn't even know it existed and , in all probability , the version I watched was trimmed - since the full-blown restoration wasn't carried out until 2004 ! Anyway , I remember the film with affection and I thoroughly enjoyed rewatching it on DVD ( even if this version is still several minutes shy of its 134-minute original length ! ) . For being made right in the middle of WWII , this is an obscenely expensive - circa $35 million in today's currency - spectacle ( given pretty much carte blanche , the producers went overschedule and overbudget ) commissioned by the Nazis - but scripted , ironically , by a Jew - on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of Germany's foremost film unit , UFA , it was also seen as a direct response to such foreign-made extravaganzas as Hollywood's THE WIZARD OF OZ ( 1939 ) and Britain's THE THIEF OF BAGDAD ( 1940 ) ! The character of the tale-spinning Baron Munchausen originated in a book by 18th century author Gottfried August Burger which , along the years , has inspired 4 feature-film adaptations ( as well as a Silent short by pioneering wizard Georges Melies and an animated short that was thankfully included on the Kino DVD and which will be discussed separately ) . Despite the stature accorded the 1988 Terry Gilliam version THE ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHAUSEN ( which I watched only once several years ago and recall being a somewhat hit-or-miss affair ) , the 1943 film emerges as perhaps the most satisfying cinematic rendition overall . The film is book-ended by scenes with a contemporary i . e . 1940s setting , in which the Baron ( played as a dashing yet cunning womanizer rather than the Quixotic fool envisioned by Terry Gilliam ) recounts some of his adventures - in the third person - to a naïve young couple ( the female member of which had fallen under his spell at a fancy-dress ball ) . The rest is an episodic fantasia in which Munchausen - usually driven by the promise of a romance and accompanied by his faithful sidekick - journeys from one country to the other ( meeting along the way historical historical figures like Czarina Catherine The Great , Giacomo Casanova and the magician Cagliostro , who endows him with both immortality and the power of invisibility , as well as purely invented characters such as the self-proclaimed " world's fastest runner " ) until he ends up on the moon itself . Quality varies but the end result , as a whole , is a delight and a veritable feast for the eyes ( thanks , in no small measure to the highly pleasing Agfacolor , the splendid production design and the charmingly primitive special effects ) . Still , one thing that bothered me about the DVD was the fact that the subtitles barely allowed one time to read them ( in all fairness , this had a lot to do with the virtually uninterrupted flurry of the film's dialogue itself - hence , something other than a thin white font should have been adopted ) ! The extras were more extensive than I had anticipated and up to Kino's standards for a " Special Edition " release - the best , however , was the 17-minute interview with the head of the German archival company that handled the current restoration , which goes into some detail about this as well as the production of the film itself . DIE ABENTEUER DES BARON MUNCHHAUSEN - EINE WINTERREISE ( Hans Held , 1944 ) { } : A pleasant animated short from Germany about the popular title character , made in color but containing no dialogue ; it came hot on the heels of the 1943 epic film version - though the latter , apparently , left no recognizable impression on it ( as the Baron here looked and acted nothing like the part as played by Hans Albers , nor was the plot ' lifted ' from some particular sketch in the episodic film ) . In fact , the short presents only a couple of incidents ( presumably taken from the book which inspired the film version in the first place , and several others made before and after it ) : one in which the Baron's horse ends up dangling in the air from the façade of a building ( seen in the front-cover illustration of the book from which Albers reads during the modern sequences in the film , though the episode itself is not re-enacted ) and then when the two of them are chased by a hungry wolf in the snow , with the latter proceeding to swallow the horse in one gulp and replaces it in leading the Baron's sled !
THE GREAT MUPPET CAPER ( Jim Henson , 1981 )	The second theatrical outing of the popular " Muppet Show " TV characters relocates the action to London , as reporters Kermit The Frog and Fozzie Bear and photographer Gonzo are reluctantly sent by their editor Jack Warden to investigate the robbery of a famous jeweled necklace worn by unsympathetic fashion queen Diana Rigg . The culprit turns out to be her own obnoxious brother Charles Grodin and his trio of burglar-models ; Grodin seems to have the hots for Miss Piggy ( at one point singing his heart out to her but she puts down his effort by revealing that the actor's voice was dubbed ! ) , a model wannabe engaged as Rigg's secretary and who ends up impersonating her boss to impress Kermit . The change in locale adds precious little to the table and , truth be told , the film tends to sag badly during its midsection ( with too many schmaltzy songs for balance ) . However , when the film is funny , it's frequently hilarious : the in-jokey commentary by the trio of reporters accompanying the opening credits ; their traveling to London in a plane's luggage compartment inside boxes denoting their species ( Gonzo is a " Whatever " ) and their being thrown off the plane in mid-flight eventually landing at Robert Morley's feet ; the eccentric and inquisitive guests at the Happiness Hotel ; Miss Piggy's central musical number is an amusing pastiche of old Esther Williams aquatic routines ; Miss Piggy's run-in with lorry driver Peter Ustinov ( who complains , after being thrown into the garbage , that his is only a cameo ) , etc . Ex-Monty Python John Cleese also appears as a henpecked husband who thinks nothing of glimpsing a pig climbing the walls of his apartment building .
THE FLY ( Kurt Neumann , 1958 )	I had watched this as a kid during an all-night horror marathon on Italian TV ? though I missed out on the sequel , RETURN OF THE FLY ( 1959 ) , which was part of the same program ( and will only now catch up with it all these many years later ! ) . The original may deserve its status as a sci-fi / horror classic but David Cronenberg's ultra-visceral 1986 remake makes it look quaint nowadays and , even at the time , it must have seemed one of the genre's sillier examples ; in fact , one would be hard-pressed to keep a straight face throughout ( particularly during the family's extended search for the ' white-headed ' fly ) . Still , it's clearly well done ( nicely shot in color by genre veteran Karl Struss and boasting an intelligent script by , of all people , James Clavell ! ) ? with an interesting flashback structure that undeniably helps augment the suspense factor , as well as Canadian settings which may not be so unusual for a horror film of its era ( though the strain on the actors having to fake a French accent throughout is apparent ! ) and yet prove to be entirely gratuitous in the long run . The cumbersome laboratory equipment and artless design of the all-important teleporting device date the film somewhat as well . However , the make-up ( of both ' species ' of human fly ) is admirably grotesque and its " look " is withheld from the audience long enough for major effect ? while the plot's latter stages ( detailing the agonized yet completely rational interaction between David Hedison's mutated scientist and devoted wife Patricia Owens ) is genuinely affecting and , really , is what gives the film its raison d'etre ; even so , Hedison gives up rather too easily on finding a cure and his transporting himself fully clothed seems risible today ? this is in direct opposition to the admittedly absorbing but incredibly disgusting ' body horror ' experience of Cronenberg's remake ( though still the superior version of the two all things considered ) . Vincent Price and Herbert Marshall lend distinguished support ? the former as Hedison's brother who's secretly in love with his wife ( a role the horror icon would reprise in the next installment of " The Fly Trilogy " ) , the latter as the elderly and reasonably sympathetic Police Inspector on the case ( Hedison and Owens had together engineered the former's ' release ' from his precarious physical and mental condition , for which she has been charged with murder ) . For the record , I found Paul Sawtell's music score to be too bombastic at times and , tragically , director Kurt Neumann did not enjoy the fruits of his biggest box-office success as he took his own life before THE FLY went into general release ( apparently as a result of his wife's own recent demise ) !
BUNUEL ? ATHEIST THANKS TO GOD ( Julien Gaurichon , 2005 )	This is yet another insightful documentary on the great Surrealist film-maker ; the sub-title is a reference to a typically Bunuelian non-sequitur which has become perhaps his most quoted saying . Of course , the director's preoccupation with both God and godlessness can be felt throughout much of his work ? but it applies most strongly , for obvious reasons , to THE MILKY WAY ( 1969 ) ? his " gleeful put-down of Christian dogma " , to steal from my own review of that film . Unfortunately , my very relative quibbles with it ? being inordinately highbrow and rather obscure ? is curiously replicated in the documentary as well , since the various speakers tend to over-analyze Bunuel's ultimate intent and his own personal approach to religion ( something the director himself would have vehemently disapproved ) ! As a matter of fact , in his position ( being on the outside looking in , so to speak ) , Bunuel seemed to appreciate better than most the mysteries inherent within Christianity . Perhaps the highlight of the documentary is the account by co-scriptwriter Jean-Claude Carriere of a group of gypsies who went to watch the film ( despite being unable to understand either dialogue or subtitles ! ) everyday for a week ; however , when the manager of that particular cinema queried them ( out of sheer curiosity ) as to the reason behind this ' pilgrimage ' ? what coincidence , given the plot of THE MILKY WAY itself ! ? they never came back ! ! As for Bunuel , he blatantly refused to rationalize the incident ? while clearly cherishing its singular nature ? when Carriere told him about it .
TARANTULA ( Jack Arnold , 1955 )	This is one of the most fondly remembered of the ' giant monster ' films popularized by THEM ! ( 1954 ) and , in hindsight , still ranks among the best of its type . I had first watched it on late-night Italian TV in my early teens and recall being somewhat let down ; I was more receptive towards the film on a secondary viewing ? since it's clearly a notch above the other titles in the " Classic Sci-Fi Ultimate Collection " set ( save , obviously , for THE INCREDIBLE SHRINKING MAN [ 1957 ] ) . Anyway , the film echoes THEM ! ( which is the superior effort , by the way ) in several aspects , but is sufficiently different to stand on its own merits . Actually , it's a logical extension of the earlier film ? because even if we have only one mutant monster here ( not necessarily a budgetary imposition ) , it's an insect species that's far deadlier than the ants seen in THEM ! Besides , even if the resultant growth in size is man-made , it's the product of an experiment involving a genuine concern for mankind's future ( the creation of synthetic food , which would eliminate the problem of famine facing Earth's ever-growing population ) ; the fault , then , lies in man's own impatience at achieving his goal ! An original subtext to the central narrative ? and which , as Leslie Halliwell opined , is perhaps even scarier than the idea of an over-sized spider ? is the fact that the experiment is eventually conducted on human beings , causing acute acromegaly ( shown via amusingly exaggerated make-up ) ! The cast of TARANTULA may not be as prestigious as that of THEM ! , but it's certainly agreeable : regular Universal hero John Agar ( who's always a doctor of some kind in this type of flick ) and his sidekick Nestor Paiva ( here in a bigger part than usual as the sheriff ) ; we also get a sexy heroine in Mara Corday ( she later did similar duties in two other ' giant monster ' pictures , namely THE GIANT CLAW [ 1957 ] and THE BLACK SCORPION [ 1957 ] ) , and ever-reliable character actor Leo G . Carroll as the misguided ? and eventually deformed ? scientist . While the special effects of the rampaging spider seem variable at this juncture ( although rather better than I recalled them ) , they were probably considered state-of-the-art back then . Even so , perhaps the film's best sequence is the one where the monster attacks the doctor's house and lab , crushing them under its weight ; the image of the giant spider's eyes peering into Corday's window is still creepily effective ( and must have given 1955 audiences veritable nightmares ! ) . The satisfying climax ( featuring a bit by a very young pre-stardom Clint Eastwood ) first sees Agar , the authorities and the townsfolk unite in an attempt to deal with the arachnid their own way ? but , when this fails , they call a nearby military base for help ( whose speedy intervention , an obvious plug to the resourcefulness of the U . S . Air Force , proves infinitely more successful ) .
THE SINGER NOT THE SONG ( Roy Ward Baker , 1961 )	My first ( and for a long time ) only viewing of this film was way back in the mid-1980s ( during the early days of VHS in my neck of the woods ) via a tape of a local TV screening my father loaned from a friend of his ; even though I was aware of a couple of Italian TV showings over the years , I never managed to catch up with it – until another friend of my father’s alerted me ( around Good Friday of last year ) that it had been released – and , as it happens , subsequently deleted – on R2 DVD in the UK . . . which is how I eventually reacquainted myself with it on the day marking the centenary of one of its lead actors , John Mills . The reason I went into such detail about my previous experience with this particular film is because , even though it’s been 23 years since my sole viewing of ( what is nowadays perhaps considered ) a fairly obscure title , I myself have never forgotten it . The ‘rejected priest in a godless Mexico’ theme recalls John Ford’s THE FUGITIVE ( 1947 ) and Luis Bunuel’s NAZARIN ( 1959 ) , while the ‘homosexual undertones in a Western setting’ angle is reminiscent of the Howard Hughes / Howard Hawks concoction THE OUTLAW ( 1943 ) – with henchman Laurence Naismith’s ambiguous father-son-lover relationship with bandit leader Dirk Bogarde being particularly a throwback to the Thomas Mitchell / Jack Beutel one in the earlier film . Incidentally , THE SINGER NOT THE SONG’s controversial ending plays almost like a male version of that featured in yet another steamy over-the-top Western – DUEL IN THE SUN ( 1946 ) ! This was the fourth of six collaborations between Mills and director Baker and which also included the latter’s debut , THE October MAN ( 1947 ) – a well-regarded thriller I’d love to watch and which , incidentally , has just been released on R2 DVD as part of a " John Mills Centenary Collection " . Bogarde , who himself considered the whole thing " beyond camp " , is almost always completely black-clad and , at one point , even sports cool shades ! ; here , he was already beginning to bravely delve on screen into his real-life gay side – which would come to full fruition later that same year in Basil Dearden’s VICTIM and other later acclaimed international films . Nigel Balchin’s complex screenplay is at once fascinating and heavy-going , occasioning a few lulls particularly during the last third of the film’s lengthy 132-minute duration ; besides , the ‘alphabet murders’ element to Bogarde’s tyrannical rule – not to mention pretty , pouting Mylene Demongeot’s forbidden love for middle-aged priest Mills – isn’t very convincing . On the other hand , Otto Heller’s spectacular color cinematography and Philip Green’s playfully evocative score , stand out as undeniable assets to the film . Having said that , DD Video’s full-frame presentation would have usually put me off acquiring a title on DVD – but , for the reasons delineated in my introduction , I gladly made an exception in this case . Roy Ward Baker’s accompanying brief interview is very interesting : he wasn’t keen on doing the film himself but concedes now that it is beautifully-made ; he also discloses that , initially , it was supposed to star Richard Burton instead of John Mills ( but he was only interested in playing the bandit . . . except that the role was always intended for Bogarde – this , in fact , turned out to be the last film the latter made under contract to Rank ) and that there was a mysterious enmity between the two male stars . I usually enjoy listening to Ward Baker’s Audio Commentaries ( on his Hammer flicks ) and , while I would have liked one for THE SINGER NOT THE SONG as well , the fact that he is now in his nineties and that he does not have fond memories of the shooting of the picture has understandably put paid to that prospect !
The Internecine Project ( Ken Hughes , 1974 )	Ingenious British-made corporate thriller with an impressive cast well-versed in this sort of thing – James Coburn , Keenan Wynn , Ian Hendry , Michael Jayston and Harry Andrews ; Lee Grant provides both a feminist viewpoint and a romantic partner for Coburn . The plot involves Coburn’s rise in the political stakes , abetted by ruthless bigwig Wynn ; however , he needs to put his shady past behind him and , to this end , organizes an intricate scheme by which his four former associates will eliminate one another on the same night ! Those expecting action , comedy , sex and colorful scenery a ' la Coburn’s " Flint " pictures will be sorely disappointed by this low-key , intelligent but humorless character-driven piece – filmed against drab European settings ( albeit by the great Geoffrey Unsworth ) ; composer Roy Budd , another genre fixture , delivers an appropriately moody score . Still , the murder sequences themselves ( with Coburn bemusedly ticking away each carefully-timed step of his plan ) – particularly Andrews’ vicious shower murder of the Christiane Kruger character and the hesitation at carrying out his part of the bargain by the typically angst-ridden Hendry – generate the requisite amount of suspense during the film’s second half . While Grant’s reporter character seems an intrusion at first , her presence ( or , rather , Coburn’s callous mistreatment of her ) eventually threatens to jeopardize his ‘mission’ – on finally getting wise to his machinations , she’s willing to suppress her affections and expose him for what he is ! The film , however , provides a delicious twist ending , which sees the over-confident Coburn getting his come-uppance – even if the audience is clearly rooting for him – at his moment of glory ( by the person he least expected it from ) ! Regrettably , this is only available via a reportedly substandard pan-and-scan R2 DVD ; then again , I did watch it in this aspect ratio myself – and dubbed in Italian to boot !
THE ISLAND AT THE TOP OF THE WORLD ( Robert Stevenson , 1974 )	This is one of the better-regarded of the Disney studio's live-action efforts , particularly among those made following Walt's death . It's a fantasy adventure on Jules Verne lines ; actually , the film coincided with the somewhat similar ( and equally good ) THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT ( 1974 ) . We have a handful of people embarking on an expedition to the Arctic via airship in search of the leader ( Donald Sinden ) ' s son ? the others are David Hartman ( young but expert explorer ) , Jacques Marin ( French captain of the vessel ) and Mako ( the Eskimo who last saw the boy alive ) . Eventually , half-way through the proceedings to be exact , they find him ? along with a lost Viking civilization ( which speaks in its native tongue ) and the location of a fabled whale graveyard ! The film may take a typically juvenile viewpoint , but it's no less engaging for all that ? of course , we also get humor ( including Sinden's traditionally Victorian haughtiness ) , romance ( between his boy and a local lass ) and a variety of thrills ( the party having to fend themselves against not just standard human villainy but a rather intense attack by killer whales ) along the way . The production design of the mythic landscape is attractive ( as is the widescreen photography ) and , while dated , the special effects ( notably the eruption of a volcano and the climactic explosion of the airship ? it's purely coincidental that I watched this only a day after THE ASSASSINATION BUREAU [ 1969 ] ; see my review for that film ) are quite nicely done .
Welcome To Sherwood ! - The Story Of " The Adventures Of Robin Hood " ( TV ) ( Jeff Kurrti , 2003 )	A typically solid and thorough Turner Classic Movies documentary about the making of this classic film : running for some 56 minutes , it's highly informative - but , given the subject matter , it's also done in an entertaining way . Of course , it deals with several behind-the-scenes anecdotes that I mentioned in my review of the film itself . . . but it's also easy to see how , 70 years on , all the participants are still in awe of the film's achievement : the wondrous use of color , the spectacle , the stuntwork involved in the action highlights - in essence , the sheer professionalism of Hollywood at its best .
Ask Father ( N / A , 1919 )	At long last , I've allotted sizeable time ( which should take up to the very last day of the year ) to check out New Line's massive THE HAROLD LLOYD COMEDY COLLECTION 7-Disc Set ! I started off with this one , which is basically a one-joke short ( albeit only 13 minutes in length ) - a boy's various attempts to meet " the busiest man in town " in order to ask for his daughter's hand in marriage - which frequently has characters being shoved out of the father's office by his burly underling . Lloyd ultimately fails in his quest , but eventually finds true love with the father's secretary ( played by Bebe Daniels ) . It's an enjoyable star vehicle which , among other things , sees Lloyd in drag ; bafflingly , there's no director credit attached to this one !
JOHNNY GOT HIS GUN ( Dalton Trumbo , 1971 )	I had always been intrigued by this film because of its ( admittedly morbid ) subject matter - and became even more so when I learned that Trumbo had originally approached my favorite director , Luis Bunuel , to direct it ! It's an undeniably effective anti-war parable which , though based on Trumbo's own 1939 novel ( set during WWI ) , proved especially timely in view of the ongoing controversy over the U . S . ' military involvement in Vietnam . Still , having a writer making his first ( and only ) stab at directing a film , the overall result is a brilliant one but which tends to be literate to a fault . Perhaps unconsciously , Trumbo inverts the technique used by The Archers in A MATTER OF LIFE AND DEATH ( 1946 ) by utilizing black-and-white for the present day occurrences and color for the flashback / fantasy sequences ; it must be said that the monochrome hospital scenes , though essentially repetitive , are suitably harrowing and poignant which indirectly seem like a plea for euthanasia . Unfortunately , Timothy Bottoms ' flashbacks are somewhat hit-and-miss : while some of them are quite moving ( particularly two episodes which feature Bottoms interacting with his girlfriend and a friendly whore who lived through the 1906 San Francisco ' quake ) , whimsical ( the scenes featuring Donald Sutherland as Jesus Christ , finding himself at a loss when it comes to aid Bottoms in his unique plight , are highly amusing , doubtless offensive to some and , most probably , the remnants of Bunuel's tenure in the project's development ) or absurdist ( his stint at the front-line , which is capped by the tragic and life-changing accident ) , others fall flat , particularly some of the fantasy sequences featuring Jason Robards as his shoe-maker / fisherman father and an irrelevant and lengthy bakery / send-off party sequence . That said , the rest of the cast is capably assembled ( it was a particular pleasure for me to watch Charles McGraw as Bottoms ' prospective father-in-law ) and Jerry Fielding contributes a typically impressive score . Obviously , Trumbo is best-known today for his troubles with HUAC but this film , while it could have benefited from firmer and more experienced control , is arguably his most personal statement and , deservedly I think , won him the Special Jury and F . I . P . R . E . S . C . I . prizes at the Cannes Film Festival , in a year in which one of the members of the Jury was Sergio Leone and where more renowned films like Nicolas Roeg's WALKABOUT ( 1971 ) and Louis Malle's MURMUR OF THE HEART ( 1971 ) went away empty-handed !
LES MISERABLES ( Lewis Milestone , 1952 )	Watchable version of the oft-filmed Victor Hugo tale : made by the same studio ( Fox ) , it emerges as a wholly inferior remake of the superb 1935 version – which I reviewed earlier this month . Despite Milestone’s involvement , this one displays more surface gloss than genuine style – with the script itself being much more prosaic . Still , there’s an intermittent evidence of talent throughout – for instance , in the rather effective final shot which frames the mirror image of the protagonists between the all-important candlesticks ; also worth noting is the score by Alex North which , particularly at the climax , feels like a dry run for his Oscar-nominated work on SPARTACUS ( 1960 ) . Michael Rennie and Robert Newton are fine actors , but their performances here are no match for Fredric March and Charles Laughton in the earlier film ; though Newton is remarkably restrained , his role has been somewhat diminished to accommodate the sappy romance involving Debra Paget and Cameron Mitchell ! Besides , it’s compromised by the loss of two small but important scenes from the 1935 version which , in this case , robs the character of essential depth : a ) when Javert is humiliated by his peers for his lowly background , and b ) when he blackmails newly-appointed Mayor Jean Valjean , a former convict , in his office ; unbelievably , it substitutes the first by having Javert’s own father serve a prison sentence on the galley to which he’s himself assigned ! Other conceptual flaws include : Edmund Gwenn’s pivotal role of the Bishop , which comes off as whimsical alongside Cedric Hardwicke’s haunting turn in the earlier film ; Valjean is depicted as an illiterate who receives schooling from the intellectual played by Joseph Wiseman ( his Method approach feels out of place in a 19th century French setting ! ) ; Javert’s conscience-stricken demise here is , disconcertingly , brought about by his brief conversation with James Robertson Justice ( as Valjean’s right-hand man ) ; missing from the narrative , though , is the poignant character of Eponine ( whose role gave a plausible melancholia to the romantic angle in the 1935 film ) . Ultimately , I wouldn’t call the 1952 LES MISERABLES unnecessary , considering that it’s made with undeniable professionalism and the fact that countless other film versions have followed it ; perhaps , the late eminent critic Leslie Halliwell summed it best in his claim that it’s " lacking the spark of inspiration " .
THE LEOPARD MAN ( Jacques Tourneur , 1943 )	Apart from its classic murder sequences ( particularly the first with its bloody pay-off ) , this one has an original , audacious structure ( criticized at the time because it was not understood ) with the narrative following minor characters every once in a while and veering off into seemingly unrelated subplots - a half-century prior to Tarantino's would-be seminal PULP FICTION ( 1994 ) , but also Luis Bunuel's THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY ( 1974 ) ! ! Dennis O'Keefe is a wonderful lead as the sleuth figure ; in fact , the film is actually more of a thriller since the murders do not have a basis in the supernatural ( as was the case with the previous two Lewton / Tourneur collaborations ) . Though Jean Brooks is ostensibly the heroine , Margo is given more screen-time and her role is a lot more interesting : her performance as the doomed artiste - frequently resorting to her fortune-teller friend Isabel Jewell , who unfailing turns up the death card ! - is quite moving . James Bell underplays his pivotal role as the museum curator / animal expert ( which is similar to the brief doctor part he essayed in I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE [ 1943 ] ) ; also fine is Abner Biberman as the owner of the escaped leopard , who blacks out during his frequent drinking binges and thinks he may be the murderer . The small-town atmosphere is brilliantly captured on a studio set ( marred only by some corny elements in the script intended to accentuate the local color , such as the over-use of Margo's castanets - to the point where they even become a motif - or the birthday song delivered to the second victim of the titular creature . . . but , especially , the infuriatingly stupid mother of the little girl - who bullies her innocent and fearful daughter to an early grave ! ) ; the ' outdoor ' climax , then , is given an added touch of strangeness by taking place in the midst of a procession headed by a group of caped villagers ! Curiously , both the Leslie Halliwell and Leonard Maltin film guides give the running-time as a mere 59 minutes ; however , the two times I've watched the film , it's always been by way of the full-length 66-minute version ! William Friedkin's Audio Commentary is a good listen , despite his tendency to describe the on-screen action ( though almost always accentuated by his own interpretation of events ) ; this was his favorite among the Lewton horrors - and , in fact , it's very much underrated among fans but , personally , I loved it immediately !
J . W . COOP ( Cliff Robertson , 1972 )	Actor Cliff Robertson’s clout after his Oscar win in CHARLY ( 1968 ) allowed this personal venture which he wrote , produced and directed as well as starred in ; the film , though much admired in some circles and certainly well-made , is essentially dreary and somewhat overlong for its purpose . Incidentally , rodeo is not a subject which has been treated often by Hollywood : a couple more notable efforts were Nicholas Ray’s rare but highly regarded THE LUSTY MEN ( 1952 ) – which I recently acquired but have yet to watch – and Sam Peckinpah’s contemporaneous and better-known JUNIOR BONNER ( 1972 ) . Anyway , the titular figure is an enthusiast of the sport who wants to pick up where he left off following a 10-year stint in jail for fraud ; after a pathetic reunion with his senile mother ( a cameo , despite her second billing , by a disheveled Geraldine Page ) , he sets off to seek a prominent spot in the National Finals . This entails a series of contests across the country – he starts off by hitching rides to each destination , then borrows a van ( through a friend ) from a military base but , after scoring a number of successes and winning a pile of money , he can afford to fly the rest of the way . Robertson meets spirited young hippie Cristina Ferrare ; following the initial distrust ( being a middle-aged uneducated cowboy himself , they have virtually nothing in common ) , he comes to appreciate her devoted presence by his side – however , when he finally proposes marriage , she quits him . Coop’s biggest rival is a brash stud half his age whose wealth is able to keep him well ahead of the game ( getting to the various rodeo venues by way of a private plane ) . Still , our hero perseveres – but his dream seems to come to an end when he breaks a leg ; undaunted , he decides to mount a particularly wild bull . . . but his triumph this time around is short-lived and he’s gored by the testy animal ! Robertson elicits fine performances all around and shows great feeling for small-town America – as well as passion for his central theme ( which isn’t so much about achieving one’s goals no matter what , as how this often rings hollow when all one has to show for it is loneliness ) . A nice folksy score supplies the perfect accompaniment to the film’s attractive photography – offsetting the generally downbeat tone and the occasional instance of self-conscious direction ( such as the use of abrupt zooms or Coop’s slow-motion last ride ) . Equally agreeable are its sparse moments of humor – namely the cowboy’s ironic home address , 1313 Luck Road , requested by an apologetic cop when he’s forced to give him a ticket ( Coop’s driving his late father’s ‘smoking’ broken-down car ) and the incident in the diner’s lavatory where rednecks attack the hero’s black pal but , even outnumbered , they beat up their assailants and , when the cops arrive , Robertson justifies the mess by claiming the locals had been making " weird advances " !
BUMPING INTO Broadway ( Hal Roach , 1919 )	Despite the title , the plot of this Harold Lloyd short is evenly distributed among three different settings : a boarding-house , a theater and an exclusive club . As in FROM HAND TO MOUTH ( 1919 ) , comedy emerges out of the characters ' desperation - but there's no denying the assuredness of the gags ( in fact , I'd say that this one's an even better film ) and , in any case , H . M . Walker's title cards are among the wittiest for a Silent that I've come across ! Lloyd is in his element as the perennial dreamer , a novice playwright , and Bebe Daniels is an ideal co-star as an aspiring Broadway star . Still , the best scenes are probably those set in the casino - where the penniless Lloyd accidentally cops himself a large sum of money but , needless to say , he's not allowed to reap the rewards of his fortune because the joint is raided soon after by the Police !
CASTLE KEEP ( Sydney Pollack , 1969 )	I had been wanting to check this one out for over 20 years ( it used to be available as a VHS rental at the local outlet but I never got around to it ) but especially after reading up on the film on the internet since its 2004 DVD release ( s ) where its unusual " artiness " a'-la Alain Resnais ' LAST YEAR IN MARIENBAD ( 1961 ) was played up . Now that I've watched CASTLE KEEP for myself , all I can say is that it's arguably the strangest mainstream war movie ever and decidedly not for all tastes ! The relatively large cast ( for what turns out to be an introspective film ) is uniformly excellent and is well up to the requirements of the brilliantly surreal , funny and literate script ; Burt Lancaster , wearing an eye-patch throughout , has an unsympathetic role as the formidable leader of a group of misfit soldiers taking over a Belgian castle against unseen invading German troops . He is skillfully abetted by Peter Falk ( as a soldier who abandons his post to indulge in his vocation as a baker ) , Jean-Pierre Aumont ( as the " degenerate " owner of the titular castle ) , Patrick O'Neal ( as a celebrated art historian all at sea on the battleground but well in his element surrounded by the castle's objets d ' art ) , Scott Wilson ( as a soldier who gets into quite a unique relationship ? more on this later ) , Tony Bill ( as the most spiritual of the men ) and , the other side of the coin , Bruce Dern as a Bible-thumping conscientious objector who walks the Belgian rubbles with his ragged band of revivalist deserters-followers . The terrific cinematography of the awesome European locations ? courtesy of Henri Decae ? is complimented by a fine Michel Legrand score and , when they finally come , spectacular battle sequences . But it's the odd , surreal touches ? including Scott Wilson falling in love with a Volkswagen , the same car rising from the sea after it has been drowned by his envious companions and floating ashore all by itself , the moving sequence between Tony Bill and an unseen German soldier ( subsequently needlessly shot by Peter Falk ) where the latter teaches the former how to play the flute correctly , the unusually realistic talk of fornication , sexual organs , impotence , the ambiguous ( perhaps ghostly ) nature of the characters involved and the events being enacted , etc . ? which really make this show stand out from the crowd of WWII spectaculars and stick in one's memory ? not to mention endear it to its legion of fans ( who have famously decried online its original abominable pan-and-scan DVD incarnation , forcing Sony to re-release it in the correct Widescreen aspect ratio a mere four months later ) . The theme of the relevance of art in times of war brings forth comparisons to John Frankenheimer's THE TRAIN ( 1964 ) , also starring Burt Lancaster , whose third ( and final ) collaboration with director Sydney Pollack ? after the previous year's THE SCALPHUNTERS and THE SWIMMER ( where Pollack replaced original director Frank Perry but goes uncredited ) ? this proved to be ? perhaps as a result of the critical beating the film received upon its original release !
COLOSSUS : THE FORBIN PROJECT ( Joseph Sargent , 1970 )	A classic of science fiction and the paranoid political thrillers prevalent at the time : chilling in its implications and persuasively presented , the film makes for intelligent if demanding viewing . In hindsight , while it's much admired by connoisseurs of either genre ( being a fan of both , I'd been longing to catch up with it for years ! ) , the film deserves to have a more widespread reputation . Undoubtedly , this remains Joseph Sargent's best work ; his cinematic career hasn't provided much else worthy of note , with the only film to come any close being the fine caper THE TAKING OF PELHAM ONE , TWO , THREE ( 1974 ) . Its computer-run-amok theme echoes the Hal 9000 of 2001 : A SPACE ODYSSEY ( 1968 ) and looks forward to DEMON SEED ( 1977 ) ' s Proteus IV ; what a fascinating if overwhelming triple-bill the films would make ! Where production values are concerned ? polished look ( courtesy of d . p . Gene Polito , who later shot WESTWORLD [ 1973 ] ) , imaginative settings ( by the veteran Alexander Golitzen ) , often disorienting editing ( the expert work of Folmar Blangsted ) and an appropriately weird score ( by Michel Colombier ) ? the film truly can't be faulted , but it also benefits from a largely anonymous cast . The abrupt and unresolved ending , with Man refusing to give in to the undeniable superior intellect of his creation , is highly effective and certainly left the audience with sufficient food for thought ? and even apprehension ? for the future . Needless to say , when this was announced for DVD release , I was ready to leap at the chance of finally being able to own and watch the film ? but , as many of you must already know , my joy ( and that of many another fan , I'm sure ) was short-lived when it emerged that Universal had issued a Pan-and-Scan version ( which I can only imagine now how this ruined its detailed widescreen compositions ) ! ; thankfully , I was able to make amends via the miraculous format called DivX . . .
THE HAUNTED STRANGLER ( Robert Day , 1958 )	Having been - as was the case with THE TIN DRUM ( 1979 ) - the one to ' announce ' several years ago the re-release on DVD of 4 Richard / Alex Gordon productions through Criterion on another online Forum ( after writing to Image Entertainment to see if their bare-bones OOP editions were going to be re-issued ) , this set has been a long time coming indeed ! As some of you may know , I'd never watched this one prior to purchasing the expensive " Monsters And Madmen " set - or , for that matter , its follow-up CORRIDORS OF BLOOD ( 1958 ) ; however , I knew enough of their reputation as two of Boris Karloff's best latter-day films to make me spring for them regardless . To be honest , as I lay watching THE HAUNTED STRANGLER , I was somewhat let down by it and my heart actually sank when , in the Audio Commentary , both Richard Gordon and Tom Weaver opine that they prefer this one over CORRIDORS OF BLOOD ! Still , going through the film twice in a matter of hours can sometimes work wonders : at first glance , it's a handsome-looking yet rather lurid film - reveling in the permissiveness of the time to include as many ( often gratuitous ) instances of sleaze and sadism as it possibly could ; in that respect , it's similar to THE FLESH AND THE FIENDS ( 1959 ) - incidentally , another well-regarded title I had long wanted to watch and been underwhelmed by on a preliminary viewing . The film actually precedes Hammer's DR . JEKYLL AND SISTER HYDE ( 1971 ) in that it mingles the Stevenson perennial with the equally popular exploits of Jack The Ripper ; to these it attaches a thriller angle by having Karloff act as a detective investigating an old series of murders , ostensibly to prove a miscarriage of justice , but whose repercussions are far worse - to say nothing of closer to home - than he could have imagined ( itself an oft-used device as in , say , THE BIG CLOCK [ 1947 ] ) ! While I knew of the twist from reading about the film beforehand ( and which is actually revealed fairly early in the game ) , I feel that it doesn't quite work here because , for one thing , the star was simply too old for the role ( though I'll readily admit that he entered with glee into its quite physical attributes , even coming up with the economical make-up design himself ! ) but also because the character's mental condition and its effect on his backstory is conveniently kept under wraps until the revelation ( when it should , at least , bother him equally as much as wanting to prove the innocence of an anonymous and legally convicted serial-killer ) . Incidentally , though strangulation is involved in the crimes , the film's title is somewhat misleading because it's the scalpel which sets the ' monster ' off and , for this reason , the U . S . moniker is rather more accurate ! Anyway , one of the film's major assets is surely Lionel Banes ' black-and-white cinematography ; the second half of the narrative , then , creates reasonable suspense and excitement with the scenes involving the rampaging ' monster ' and his ultimate identity crisis . In the end , I wouldn't really classify THE HAUNTED STRANGLER as one of the star's very best vehicles - but it's undoubtedly among the more satisfying from his later work that I've watched ( along with THE RAVEN [ 1963 ] and TARGETS [ 1968 ] ) . The DVD supplements are very adequate : the Audio Commentary featuring genre authority Tom Weaver and the film's producer Richard Gordon ( with interjections from his late brother / partner Alex ) is especially interesting - apart from the privilege of having Weaver and the two Gordons name their 3 favorite Karloff pictures , amongst many other things I learned that Boris once almost worked with Edward D . Wood Jr . ( and Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney Jr . to boot ) on the project which eventually became BRIDE OF THE MONSTER ( 1955 ) !
DJANGO ( Sergio Corbucci , 1966 )	In my review of Corbucci's THE GREAT SILENCE ( 1968 ) , I had written that it was " superior " to this one ; well , having re-acquainted myself with DJANGO now ( which , incidentally , I chose to do on my 30th birthday ! ) - and bearing in mind that my viewing of the former was only the first - I can say that it edges the latter only slightly , as I thoroughly enjoyed Corbucci's most famous Spaghetti Western featuring star Franco Nero's signature role ! ! While I was disappointed in Blue Underground's DVD transfer , with occasional color fluctuation and rather more severe print damage than I was expecting ( considering that it was reportedly taken directly from the original negative ) , the film really stood up to its reputation as one of only a handful of titles ( among them , of course , THE GREAT SILENCE itself ) to challenge Sergio Leone's supremacy in the Spaghetti Western subgenre ! Anyway , with respect to the film's terse plot line , it wasn't anything novel or even special : a mysterious loner turns up at a ghost town ( in which only the saloon is operative , also lending the service of prostitutes to passing bands of renegade soldiers and Mexican bandits ) who , while antagonizing the former , assists the latter in stealing Army gold ( which he later runs off with but eventually loses in quicksand ! ) ; however , he also finds time to aid a beautiful woman who falls for him ( but whom he shuns because of his devotion to a dead spouse ) . The handling , however , is extremely stylish marking a definite improvement from previous ( and largely lackluster ) Spaghetti Western efforts by Corbucci , of which I've watched two - the utterly routine MASSACRE AT GRAND CANYON ( 1965 ) and the tongue-in-cheek RINGO AND HIS GOLDEN PISTOL ( 1966 ) ! The film is also noted for its brutality - a man's ear is graphically slit ( anticipating RESERVOIR DOGS [ 1992 ] by a quarter of a century ! ) and fed to its owner , Nero's bloody smashed hands ( giving rise to a uniquely memorable climax inside a graveyard ) , not forgetting the soldiers ' callous massacre of Mexican peasants ( whom they keep behind a fence and release one by one , like cattle , only to gun them down ! ) and a striking bar-room fight filmed with a hand-held camera - and some genuinely surreal touches in the script , such as the presence of its coffin-carrying hero ( with a large machine-gun device concealed within it ! ) and KKK-type villains ( amusingly , assistant director Ruggero Deodato - whom I met at the 2004 Venice Film Festival , by the way - claims that the crew covered the characters ' faces because they were saddled with ' leftovers ' to feature as extras ! ) . Besides , the grimy deserted setting is highly effective while Luis Enrique Bacalov's melancholy and haunting theme tune gave me goose-pimples the first time it came on ( ! ) - and the acting is above-average as well : Nero emerges as the most satisfactory Clint Eastwood substitute the Italians came up with ; he's ably supported by the likes of Eduardo Fajardo ( as the villainous Major Jackson ) , Jose ' Bodalo ( the bandit chief ) , Loredana Nusciak ( the woman ) and Angel Alvarez ( the saloon-keeper ) . While not as bountiful perhaps as a cult classic such as this would seem to be worthy of , the extras prepared by Blue Underground are certainly well done . These include a short but informative featurette ( in which Nero and Deodato are interviewed separately ) , talent bios for both Corbucci and Nero , an extensive still and poster gallery and the film's theatrical trailer ( as well as those , in the form of an Easter Egg , for DJANGO , KILL ! [ 1967 ] , RUN , MAN , RUN [ 1968 ] and MANNAJA : A MAN CALLED BLADE [ 1977 ] - which had formed , along with the original Blue Underground single-disc release of DJANGO , " The Spaghetti Western Collection " Limited Edition Box Set ) . As for the short THE LAST PISTOLERO ( 2002 ) , included on a mini-disc with this re-issue , it is reviewed individually elsewhere . I haven't watched this film's belated official sequel - DJANGO 2 : IL GRANDE RITORNO ( 1987 ) - which has been on Italian TV a number of times and , as far as I can tell , have only managed to catch two of the myriad releases to which the iconic title character has been attached - DJANGO SHOOTS FIRST ( 1966 ) and DJANGO , KILL !
THE OLD FASHIONED WAY ( William Beaudine , 1934 )	Quintessential W . C . Fields comedy ( again , billed as Charles Bogle , he provided the story himself ) boasting a pleasant period setting and a plot that revolves around a troupe of traveling players led by The Great McGonigle . The star is given yet another memorable introduction - being signaled by his daughter of the presence of the law , representing their creditors , on his way to the train which is to take them to the next town ; here , again , we have a daughter who is willing to forgive her rascally father his every whim and foible . The film , as such , relies more on atmosphere than the typical Fields ' sketches ' and this , perhaps , lends it a charm - and a freshness - that it wouldn't otherwise possess . Among its many notable scenes are : Fields thinking the military reception waiting at the train station is for his troupe's benefit ; the dinner sequence with a rampaging , famished troupe and Fields ' hilarious encounter with Baby LeRoy ( who throws food at him and drops his watch into a jar of molasses ) - Fields manages to get even with the child by kicking him when no one's watching ! ; the rich old lady's cringe-inducing singing audition , with the star reacting accordingly ( he's hoping to secure her financial backing for the play the troupe will be presenting in town by promising her a role in it - this is eventually whittled down to a single line , which she's never even called upon to deliver ! ) ; Fields falling off the stage during rehearsals , etc . " The Drunkard " set-piece occupies a good deal of the second half : a hoary melodrama which the troupe performs with gusto - with Fields as the mustachioed and hissable villain of the piece who , at one point , reprises the immortal line from his short THE FATAL GLASS OF BEER ( 1933 ) " ' T ain't a fit night out for man nor beast " . With the closing of each act , the curtain comes crashing down making a loud thumping sound ; still , the film is clearly intended as a valentine to the days of vaudeville - and even includes a wonderful juggling routine towards the end that showcases Fields ' amazing dexterity ( in spite of his advancing age , corpulent physique and propensity for booze ) . The final sequence finds The Great McGonigle keeping busy as a medicine showman - having left his daughter behind , so as not to interfere with her happiness alongside a stage-struck boy emanating from a respectable family . Typically , for comedies from this era , romance and songs have been incorporated into the narrative as much as a device by which to counterbalance the star's antics as for purely commercial reasons ( since these films were largely intended for family consumption ) .
AMAZONS OF ROME ( Vittorio Cottafavi and Carlo Ludovico Bragaglia , 1961 )	Amazingly , this is the third " Amazon Women " film I've watched in a month but , unlike the others , this is a relatively serious undertaking and , in any case , the American title is misleading - but , then , probably so is the Italian one , which translates to " THE VIRGINS OF ROME " ! When it was shown on late-night Italian TV , I had never heard of it but was willing to give it a try considering the talent involved ( director Cottafavi and stars Louis Jourdan , Sylvia Syms and Michel Piccoli ) - but also due to the fact that French director Bertrand Tavernier , apparently , considers this one of his favorite films ! Distressingly , I came across very few reviews of the film and these were all-too-brief ; besides , the only other two comments on the IMDb aren't very favorable ! Despite the scratchy print with washed-out colors that was shown on TV , I'm glad I taped it because it turned out to be one of the most satisfying peplums I've ever watched and , consequently , the film ought to be much better known ! Besides , it allowed me to understand a bit better Cottafavi's cult reputation ( given the type of films he dabbled in ! ) - though , apparently , he was replaced after 3 weeks by Bragaglia because Cottafavi couldn't see eye to eye with star Jourdan ( though the change in director didn't effect the film in any perceptible way ) . I had only watched four Cottafavi films prior to this : the modern-day melodrama NEL GORGO DEL PECCATO ( 1954 ) and the following peplums - GOLIATH AND THE DRAGON ( 1960 ) , HERCULES AND THE CAPTIVE WOMEN ( 1961 ) and I CENTO CAVALIERI ( 1964 ; perhaps the director's best work and which I was lucky to watch , along with the hilariously awful GOLIATH , at the 2004 Venice Film Festival with lead Mark Damon in attendance ! ) . Likewise , I had seen four by Bragaglia - three of them starring the popular Italian comic Toto ' and , eons ago , HANNIBAL ( 1960 ) - another one of his peplums and which was co-directed by Edgar G . Ulmer ! The casting of the two leads is surprising , but they certainly number among the most talented ever featured in this type of film : Jourdan is quite amusing as the leader of the barbarian horde who's seen constantly , and nonchalantly , munching on fruit - even when leading his men into battle ! ; the beautiful Syms adds grace and intelligence to the film - but , apart from Nicole Courcel ( who is also pretty good as an unusually sympathetic villainess , sharing a secondary love interest with Piccoli ! ) , is the only female character who is developed in any substantial way . The battle scenes - highlighted by a running duel between Jourdan and a one-eyed Roman general played by genre regular Ettore Manni - are nicely handled , though mainly relegated to the opening and closing moments of the film .
The Bat Whispers ( 1930 )	The film does feel creaky , the humor is laid a little too thick for my tastes at times ( much like Paul Leni's THE CAT AND THE CANARY [ 1927 ] , in fact ) and Maude Eburne as the cowardly maid IS unbearable ? but this is more than made up for , in my opinion , by the film's dazzling cinematography , atmospheric sets and deliberate theatricality ( complete with asides to the audience in the finale ) . In any case , it's easily miles ahead of the inept and boring Vincent Price remake of 1959 ! You will have noticed that I have preceded ( as is my fashion ) the film's name with that of its director . I'll be the first to admit that nearly nobody today remembers Roland West , let alone be prepared to accord him " auteur " status , but you'll agree that the VERY distinctive visual style of the film indicates an assured guiding hand behind the whole project . Although hardly as well-known today or as easy to find , THE BAT WHISPERS is by no means West's only notable feature ; as a matter of fact , based on the minute information I've managed to find on them in my reference books , I'd be very interested in watching THE UNKNOWN PURPLE ( 1923 ; an intriguing-sounding precursor to James Whale's THE INVISIBLE MAN [ 1933 ] ) , THE BAT ( 1926 ; the original Silent-film version of THE BAT WHISPERS ) , the gangster drama ALIBI ( 1929 ; which even earned Chester Morris a Best Actor Academy Award nomination ) and CORSAIR ( 1931 ) , his last film . As for myself , the only other Roland West film I've seen is the atypical and rather unsatisfactory Lon Chaney vehicle THE MONSTER ( 1925 ) , which also happens to be a bizarre ' old dark house ' melodrama . Elliott Stein , in Richard Roud's indispensable tome , " Cinema : A Critical Dictionary ? The Major Film-Makers " described Roland West as " one of America's supremely original visual stylists , the director of a series of stunning thrillers . " He also names ALIBI " one of the most oppressive films ever made ? the distorted sets , odd angles and restless camera make it West's most Germanic work ? this claustrophobic little nightmare would be fully at home in a retrospective of the American avant-garde film . " Furthermore , he acclaims THE BAT WHISPERS as " a pictorial knock-out " and CORSAIR " a visual treat " ! Unfortunately , his promising career was suddenly curtailed by a real-life tragedy . West was involved and living with renowned comedienne Thelma Todd ( a frequent foil for Laurel & Hardy and The Marx Brothers ) in Malibu at the time of her mysterious death in 1935 . Neighbors heard them quarreling the night before the morning she was found in her garage overcome by carbon monoxide poisoning ; though a suspect , he was never arrested but , of course , he could never work in Hollywood ( or elsewhere ) again . I've only watched THE BAT WHISPERS ( twice ) , in Widescreen , on VHS and I've been meaning to pick up Image's DVD edition ( comprising also the ' alternate ' full-frame version , shot simultaneously by a different cameraman ! ) for the longest time . As it happens , from the online reviews I've read of the disc , the verdict as to which version is actually ' better ' seems to be pretty mixed .
Sweeney Todd : The Demon Barber Of Fleet Street ( Tim Burton , 2007 )	I knew of the gory exploits of the Demon Barber via the 1936 barnstorming vehicle for British ham extraordinaire Tod Slaughter , though I haven’t watched that particular film itself ; on the other hand , I was vaguely aware that Stephen Sondheim had turned it into an unlikely but , by all accounts , successful musical . Tim Burton is a genuine but somewhat erratic talent but , whenever he joins forces with one of today’s finest actors – Johnny Depp – he seems to be particularly inspired , and this one’s no exception . As ever , the film’s visuals ( of a seedy and forbidding 19th century London ) are impeccable – and SWEENEY TODD deservedly emerged the Oscar winner in the art direction / set decoration category last Sunday night ! Interestingly , Depp had never sung on film previously but he does extremely well and , indeed , figured prominently – somewhat surprisingly ( this is a horror musical , after all ) but rightly so , in my opinion – among the year’s Best Actor nominees ; his brooding good looks are perfect for the character’s mix of pent-up emotions and cool viciousness . He’s matched by Helena Bonham-Carter , the director’s own mate , as the pie-shop owner who decides to spice up her traditional recipe – and is delighted to see the formerly dormant business flourish ( with the helping hand of revenge-seeking barber Depp ) ! The supporting cast is headed by reliables such as Alan Rickman and Timothy Spall and newer star acts like BORAT ( 2006 ) ’s Sacha Baron Cohen as a pompous traveling barber / charlatan ( and , hence , a rival / victim for Todd ) . SWEENEY TODD has been criticized for its vigorous blood-letting , and I do concede that Burton should have restrained his predilection for these grisly scenes – since they tend to become repetitive and , eventually , lead the film towards overlength at almost two hours . A local critic whose opinion I usually respect and value was underwhelmed by the film and only gave it ; he was also unimpressed by the songs or the actors’ idiosyncratic rendition of them ; I personally found Sondheim’s score quite effective and rousing at just the right moments . . . though , admittedly , it could also be grating i . e . whenever the actors have to sing separate choruses on top of one another . Similarly , Mrs . Lovett’s fantasy beach scene comes across as a distraction – as if we’d been suddenly thrown back to the environment of Burton’s own BIG FISH ( 2003 ) ! The narrative’s overwhelming Gothic bleakness remains unrelieved till the very end – with events leading to the inevitable frenzied climax tinged with a tragic irony ; we should perhaps have been allowed a ray of hope by being shown the young lovers united but , since the film is really about the plight of Depp’s character and his luckless wife , it’s appropriate that we stick with their fate .
Perfect Love	Another frank depiction of sexual obsession from Breillat which , despite several instances of full frontal nudity , is not particularly graphic until a short orgy sequence in the film's latter stages . While the film is rather long and talky , it is also surprisingly compelling , aided considerably by its two excellent central performances , particularly Isabelle Renauld's ; its semi-documentary / flashback framework , then , leads to a shocking , inevitable finale . Having a relationship with a beautiful , mature woman is every young man's dream and , for a while , Francis Renaud lives it but before long , his unwillingness to let go of his chauvinistic male friends ( who are prone to graphically describe their sexual prowess in front of his female companion ) and seriously commit to his relationship is too heavy a burden for them both ; ironically , it is Renaud's attempt at taking on the role of father-figure ( by taking an interest in Renauld's teenage girl ) which triggers off the differences between them and which keep escalating as the film goes along . Out of the three films I've watched so far from this interesting and controversial French film-maker , this is certainly the best so far and I'm looking forward to catching more of her work in the future . Luckily , I've managed to convince my pal at the local DVD rental store to add the Criterion DVD edition of Breillat's A ' MA SOEUR ! ( 2001 ) to his already impressive library . . .
THE MAN WITHOUT A PAST ( Aki Kaurismaki , 2002 )	This is not only my first encounter with Finnish director Kauriskmaki but also the very first film I've ever watched coming out of Finland . Still , I was aware of his work ? not least from the admiration heaped upon him by a Venetian friend of mine ( who also happens to be something of an authority on Jesus Franco ) ! ! Now that I've watched this one , I can certainly see why this director is held in high esteem by critics and adventurous film buffs alike . While the film's narrative is perhaps too slight and its treatment too low-key for mainstream audiences , I found it to be a delightful little movie full of a remarkable humanity and a quirky sense of irony , which occasionally provides some very funny sequences indeed : the bank robbery sequence and its aftermath , the eventual transformation of an unassuming folk group into an energetic rock'n'roll band , etc . The cast , obviously , was totally unknown to me but the lead role of the bewildered amnesiac was sympathetically portrayed by Markku Peltola .
CALABUCH ( Luis Garcia Berlanga , 1956 )	This is only the third film I've watched from this Spanish director : the others were the compendium LES QUATRES VERITES ( 1962 ; the episode starring Hardy Kruger ) and NOT ON YOUR LIFE ( 1963 ) - a veritable masterpiece often cited as the best Spanish film ever made - a black comedy dealing with capital punishment and featuring Italian star Nino Manfredi . As with most film-makers hailing from this Mediterranean country , Berlanga's main concern are the vicissitudes and tribulations of man vis-a'-vis tradition and ongoing progress : here , therefore , we find an eminent and elderly nuclear scientist ( Edmund Gwenn in his last role for the cinema ) who suddenly disappears off the face of the earth - only to re-emerge in a tiny Spanish fishing community and attempting to lead an anonymous existence . However , his new vagabond lifestyle soon lands him in jail - except that the custodian is forced to let the inmates go on occasion because their presence is required elsewhere : for instance , Franco Fabrizi is a convicted smuggler who not only plays in the local band but also happens to be the cinema projectionist ! This allows the director to poke fun at figures of authority ( there is also the priest who won't concede defeat even at a simple game of chess ) but , at the same time , celebrate Spanish customs - such as religious processions , the corrida ( unusual here in that it takes place near the sea-shore ) and a rival display of fireworks ( where Professor Gwenn's mathematical prowess certainly comes in handy , thus leading the people of Calabuch to victory for the first time - but , then , a snapshot of the occasion exposes his true identity and the modern world on the outside comes beckoning to him once more ! ) . The latter results in a somewhat anti-climactic ' curtain ' as the Professor goes back to his former duty without so much as a struggle , either from the old man himself or the community which had come to appreciate and love him . In retrospect , the entire film disappoints - in that I had expected the satire to be of a more scathing nature . . . but the pleasant detail of unassuming everyday life and Gwenn's central performance are , nonetheless , enough to sustain considerable interest throughout .
Les Modeles De " Pickpocket " ( TV ) ( 2003 )	This lengthy documentary is a reasonably insightful look at the three protagonists of Robert Bresson's PICKPOCKET ( 1959 ) - Martin Lassalle , Marika Green and Pierre Leymarie - detailing not only how their appearance in the film has affected their careers and their life in general , but also Bresson's unique working method . While the latter seems to have been as rigid and as elusive as the master's own films , all three are proud to have been associated with what was even then considered an unmistakable work of art . Lassalle seems to be quite a colorful character with his long , white hair and beard which gives him the look of a wise old man or even an aging Robinson Crusoe ; he currently resides in Mexico where he is seen waxing lyrically about his plants and speaking to his children in different languages ! As it happens , he had quite a long-standing career as a film actor and I was surprised to discover that he had appeared in such Euro-Cult fare as THE MANSION OF MADNESS ( 1971 ) and ALUCARDA ( 1975 ) ! Green , who was around 60 when this documentary was shot , is still a very beautiful woman and , like Lassalle , did continue in films after her appearance as the angelic Jeanne in PICKPOCKET . . . although , ironically , only the erotic smash-hit EMMANUELLE ( 1974 ) is truly well-known among the other films she has been in . I was quite delighted when , during her interview , she enthusiastically leafed through an old film magazine in which PICKPOCKET and Bresson are discussed , a copy of which is sitting right next to me as I'm writing this ! ! Unlike his fellow co-stars , Leymarie never worked in films again and is therefore reasonably muted if still quite proud about his meeting with Bresson . He does have one funny anecdote which , in a way , could sum up Bresson's cinema in the eyes of the uninitiated : when his father learned that he would be appearing in a movie , he proudly announced this to everyone who would listen but , after watching the film , he scolded the young Leymarie for his " terrible " acting ! !
CAPTAIN KRONOS - VAMPIRE HUNTER ( Brian Clemens , 1974 )	This is a genuine oddity : surprisingly stylish and immensely enjoyable ; definitely one of Hammer's best latter-day efforts . The revisionist script is certainly interesting , giving a fresh slant to the whole vampire subgenre . Despite the low-budget , the production is handsome - to which Laurie Johnson's score lends an appropriately rollicking air , but sometimes achieving even an epic feel . The idea of having an enigmatic but resourceful vampire hunter ( not to mention some direct references , acknowledged by Clemens in the Audio Commentary ) ties the film with both the Western and Samurai genres ; in this respect , it's all the more regrettable that CAPTAIN KRONOS did not spin off a series of its own , as most vampire films that followed reverted to the tired old formula popularized by Hammer themselves and Universal before them ! The film contains several striking moments : the many shots of the black-clad figure of the vampire stalking his prey ( in the country-side , in the churchyard and in the Durward estate ) ; John Carson's blackly humorous death scene ; the swift tavern scuffle ; and the climactic swordfight . The cast , too , is uniformly good : Horst Janson , John Carson , John Cater and Caroline Munro on the side of good ; Shane Briant and Lois Daine as the arrogant but ultimately confused young Durwards ( their relationship displaying a clear but not overstated undercurrent of incest ) ; Ian Hendry ( a memorable cameo ) , William Hobbs and Wanda Ventham as the villains . About the transfer : a very nice-looking print with the colors well preserved . As for the extras : the theatrical trailer is sorely missed , but the Audio Commentary is one of the best for the Hammer DVDs will all the participants contributing their own experiences with the film , as well as their opinions on the company's sad state of affairs during this time - while moderator Jonathan Sothcott keeps the conversation moving along with relevant questions ; so , kudos to all involved !
THE ILLUSIONIST ( Neil Burger , 2006 )	Having recently been impressed by THE PRESTIGE ( 2006 ) , I was looking forward to this similarly-themed film but , as often happens with rival productions , one always ends up towering over the other ; in this case , it's THE PRESTIGE which emerges the superior film . Still , THE ILLUSIONIST provides plenty of visual interest ( both films , interestingly enough , have been nominated for the Best Cinematography Oscar ) ? not least in the muted color palette and the magic tricks themselves ( which , however , were more sparse than I had anticipated and rather too far-fetched into the bargain ) . However , compared to the dramatic hold and thematic bravado which distinguishes THE PRESTIGE , the stately film feels somewhat conventional : in fact , while I was expecting something on the lines of Ingmar Bergman's THE FACE ( 1958 ) ? with a government official exposing a magician as a fraud and the latter's deadly retribution ? all it ultimately amounted to was another impossible / undying love type of story ; the final twist , however , is worth waiting for . Edward Norton gave his usual thorough performance , Jessica Biel was radiant as the romantic interest and Rufus Sewell rather monotonous as the crossed Prince ? but it's Paul Giamatti who steals the film as the conflicted Police Inspector .
California SPLIT ( Robert Altman , 1974 )	THE CINCINNATI KID ( 1965 ) notwithstanding , my own lack of interest for ( and knowledge about ) the game of poker - though , as it turns out , it deals with a number of other activities ( boxing , basketball , casinos , horse races ) where gambling is rife - and my mistaken impression that it was a minor film has kept me away from this one several times on Italian TV but when Sony opted to put it out-of-print , I decided to give it a try regardless . Well , while it was as easy-going , rambling and plot less as I had been anticipating , it was also surprisingly compelling and very enjoyable . George Segal and Elliott Gould are perfectly cast as the two gamblers forever searching for that elusive winning streak . Segal is the more cautious of the two who , despite run-ins with bullying bookmakers and muggers , invariably finds himself sucked into another bet by his optimistic partner but , by the end of it , even if his luck does turn around , he is a hollow man yearning to return home to his uncomplicated lifestyle as a columnist for a magazine . I can certainly understand why Elliott Gould took it upon himself to personally ask Sony what was holding up the release of this film on DVD as he is simply terrific and so charismatic in the film as the fast-talking schemer , who thinks nothing of leaving his partner and girlfriend at a moment's notice and relocate to Mexico for a week just because he had had a dream of him winning it big over there and they weren't in it ! This was Altman's first experiment with " multi-track " recording ( in which various conversations going on at once overlap on each other and create a cacophonous muddle of a soundtrack ! ) which would henceforth become a trademark of his . Likewise , the director allows his actors the freedom to improvise and open up their characters leading to some memorable routines : betting that they can remember the names of all of Snow White's seven dwarfs ( and its hilarious punchline ) , the ebullient dance Segal bursts into after his first meeting with Gould , etc . The film also offers notable roles to Altman regular Gwen Welles ( as Segal's sensitive girlfriend ) , screenwriter Joseph Walsh ( as Segal's flustered bookmaker ) , Ed Walsh ( as a bad loser who beats both of the leads up after a game , though Gould eventually manages to get back at him ) and Bert Remsen ( as a transvestite who gets booked by Segal and Gould posing as members of the Vice Squad ) ; it was also Jeff Goldblum's film debut ( as Segal's boss ! ) . Besides , its vivid milieu is effectively created through the use of real-life gamblers and addicts . An unfortunate result of the film's DVD release , however , was the loss of some three minutes of footage ( condoned by Altman himself ) because some of the music rights could not be cleared ; though considerable changes - listed on " DVD Beaver " - appear to have been made , since I had never watched the film before I wasn't affected by them !
HUMANITY AND PAPER BALLOONS ( Sadao Yamanaka , 1937 )	The last film of its young director Sadao Yamanaka - who died the following year at just 28 years of age while serving with the Japanese army in China ; actually , this film's R2 DVD release some years ago under Eureka's " Masters Of Cinema " label was the first I have ever heard of him at all ( although this same film was subsequently shown on late-night Italian TV ) . HUMANITY AND PAPER BALLOONS concerns the lives of the inhabitants of a slum tenement and is , by necessity , reminiscent of Akira Kurosawa's later Japanese transposition of Maxim Gorky's THE LOWER DEPTHS ( 1957 ) . The main protagonists are a married , alcoholic ronin seeking repeatedly but vainly to be employed by an ex-protégé ( now wealthy ) of his father's and a wily crook who takes revenge on his tormentor ( for keeping a gambling joint ) by kidnapping the latter's intended . The film - which starts and ends with a suicide ? is very sensitively handled throughout , belying Yamanka's youth and revealing him to be as much a forgotten master Japanese film-maker as Tomu Uchida ( which I also experienced for the first time earlier this year after my equally recent discovery of him ) . There have been rumors online of this film being in the pipeline for a future Criterion DVD release but , in spite of its undeniable artistic merits , personally I am satisfied with the edition currently available .
TELEPLAY : THE Italian MACHINE ( TV ) ( David Cronenberg , 1976 )	This isn't really horror , but it does feature Cronenberg's trademark fetishistic attitudes towards machines ? in this case , a wild-looking motor enthusiast who becomes obsessed with acquiring a rare classic model currently in possession of a rich man . In fact , he fumes at the prospect of it being used as mere decoration in the latter's house ? the film , then , is also a commentary on what constitutes true art ( among the rich man's gallery of possessions is even a stud ! ) . Anyway , the motor enthusiast insinuates himself ( along with a couple of associates ) into the rich man's house with the excuse that they're interviewing him for some magazine ; however , his uncontrollable excitement ? both at the sight of the machine and its owner's neglect of it ? almost gives the game away ! Eventually , they turn to the stud ? who happens to be a coke addict ? for help : he's to persuade his ' master ' to give the bike to him , which he will then trade with our protagonist for a supply of drugs ! Incidentally , the rich man's attractive young wife ? who , unsurprisingly , has her own use for the stud ? also turns her attention to their guests ? but it soon becomes apparent to her that all they're interested in is the titular object ! The film is marked by a fair amount of humor , which isn't the most obvious element to be found in a Cronenberg film ? as evidenced even by THE LIE CHAIR ( 1975 ) , another made-for-TV short and which followed this in quick succession ?
YANKEE ( Tinto Brass , 1966 )	This was the notorious Brass’ sole legendary stint at a Spaghetti Western ( albeit one he subsequently disowned due to unwarranted interference from production executives ) : while perhaps not among the very best outings in the genre , it’s nonetheless individualistic enough ( featuring zooms , odd angles and flashy editing galore ) to intimate that the director should have allowed himself to be more versatile throughout his career ( rather than pooling his resources mostly on smutty erotica ) . I say this judging also by his following effort , the pop art semi-giallo DEADLY SWEET ( 1967 ) – which I had watched during the Italian B-movie retrospective at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ( with Brass himself in attendance ! ) . As can be deduced from the title , the leading character is an American – albeit played by a Frenchman , Philippe Leroy ( who proves a satisfactory figure under the circumstances , bringing out the lone gunman’s charisma , slyness and agility ) ; he’s identified simply by that epithet , which is a clear nod to Clint Eastwood’s iconic " Man With No Name " from Sergio Leone’s seminal " Dollars " trilogy . In fact , just as in A FISTFUL OF DOLLARS ( 1964 ) , the Yankee here forms an uneasy partnership with the villainous boss ( flamboyantly played by an Adolfo Celi sporting a highly atypical dyed black hair-do ! ) and is eventually punished in memorable fashion – tied to a wheel and encircled by fire – when his ruse is discovered ; like Eastwood in the earlier film , too , Leroy finds an unlikely yet convenient ally in the meek local mortician ( who performs the duties of barber on the side ! ) . Incidentally , the chief baddie himself is flanked by a person who can best be described as his direct opposite – in this case , " philosopher " Jacques Herlin ; of course , there’s a woman involved as well – a shapely fortune-teller who’s subsequently abducted by Leroy and ends up killed by her own boss / lover when she tries to stand up for the American ! Though slightly marred by insufficient plotting ( the narrative essentially resolves itself into one long battle-of-wills ) and long drawn-out footage of horsemen on the move ( it seems that Brass found these outdoor transitions the perfect vessel for Nini Rosso’s wonderfully jaunty score ) , the film certainly delivers in the action stakes – with plenty of gunfights , brawling , a fiery reprisal on the innocent Mexican villagers , and an elaborate climax ( capped by the inevitable showdown between hero and villain ) involving an ambush by the bandits on a cache ' of gold being transported down river by the U . S . Cavalry .
LITTLE MURDERS ( Alan Arkin , 1971 )	High-pitched black comedy which descends into hysteria by the end and , being overlong for its purpose , becomes something of an exhausting experience . While the connotations to the urban / social malaises being satirized are decidedly disturbing , the film is nonetheless anchored by an excellent script ( Jules Feiffer adapted his own play for the screen – that same year , he would write CARNAL KNOWLEDGE which proved equally frank and perceptive of human relationships ) and performances . Elliott Gould – one of the most representative actors of American cinema in the 1970s – is in typical unconventional hero mode ( he had actually originated the role on the stage ) , while Marcia Rodd – who’s delightful – co-stars as his levelheaded girlfriend . Vincent Gardenia appears as Rodd’s human dynamo of a father , Lou Jacobi as a matrimonial Judge , Sutherland as a radical Minister and director Arkin himself as a seriously disturbed Detective . Given the latter’s acting background , it’s not surprising that he would choose to highlight just these aspects in his first feature-length stint behind the camera . The result , then , may be technically unfussy – though a happy exception is made with the inspired slow-motion depiction of Rodd’s shocking assassination . In view of the script’s prevalence for monologues , Arkin tends to favor long takes : especially effective are those delivered by Jacobi , Sutherland and Gould himself – when , immediately prior to the sniper incident , Rodd cajoles him into expressing why he " feels " the way he does i . e . apathetic ( by his own admission ) and which has reduced him to literally photograph excrement for a living ! The contributions of the flustered Gardenia ( the head of an eccentric family whose houselights are forever dimming ) , Sutherland ( in the first of two re-unions with Gould , his co-star from M . A . S . H . [ 1970 ] – the wackiness of his appearance here reminded me of the actor’s bit as Jesus Christ in the anti-war drama JOHNNY GOT HIS GUN from the same year ) , Arkin ( who , naturally , gives himself a brilliant paranoid speech – compounded by a stammer ) , Gould’s ultra-sophisticated parents ( including John Randolph ) , and even an inveterate obscene telephone caller nicknamed ‘The Breather’ ( with his sudden snapping to normality when informed of Rodd’s demise , thus giving himself away as a former beau of hers ! ) are extremely funny for those attuned to the film’s uniquely offbeat if melancholy mood . The surreal ending , then , sees Gould and Rodd’s family barricaded in their house and taking to indiscriminate sniping themselves ! Incidentally , Fox’s DVD edition of this includes an Audio Commentary featuring Feiffer and Gould – which must be pretty interesting ( for the record , I got hold of the film through ulterior sources ) .
THE BIG TRAIL { Standard Version } ( Raoul Walsh , 1930 )	Sweeping and still impressive early Talkie Western of pioneering days ; other contemporary films in the same vein include THE COVERED WAGON ( 1923 ) , THE IRON HORSE ( 1924 ) and CIMARRON ( 1931 ) ? none of which I've watched , though I do have the latter on VHS . It was simultaneously filmed in the " Standard " fullscreen ratio and in an experimental Widescreen process called " Grandeur " , but only the former has been released on the bare-bones Fox DVD ; one can only surmise how it would look in a wider ratio , but the careful framing ? not to mention the splendid cinematography ? is evident enough even in the " Standard " version . Young John Wayne is surprisingly commanding in the lead ( a role which , however , didn't lead to the expected stardom ? as he'd languish in ' B ' Westerns for the best part of the next decade , before John Ford came to his rescue with STAGECOACH [ 1939 ] ! ) ; anyway , he and Marguerite Churchill ( from DRACULA'S DAUGHTER [ 1936 ] ) make a nice couple ? despite her somewhat tedious character . Supporting characters include a variety of stock types : veteran westerner , comic-relief sidekick ( with a penchant for making noises with his mouth ! ) , burly and uncouth villain ( played by Tyrone Power Sr . ! ) , his two slimy cohorts ( a Mexican and a Southerner , the latter also filling in as Wayne's rival for Churchill's hand ) , etc . Also among the members of the wagon party is a timid Swede ( full of optimism for the promised land , but who's continually put down by his irascible mother-in-law ) and later Wayne regular Ward Bond . The episodic narrative resolves itself into a number of alternately cornball , lyrical and action-packed vignettes ? as we see the prospective settlers combating the elements , the Indians and themselves ; the film , however , has a completely authentic feel to it which smooths over its essentially dated and static quality . Also , the editing is somewhat choppy ( particularly during the second half ) ? little wonder , since the DVD edition of the film is only 108 minutes long against the complete 158-minute " Grandeur " version !
FANFAN LA TULIPE ( Christian-Jaque , 1952 )	This is the last of four swashbucklers from France I've scheduled for viewing during this Christmas season : the others ( in order of viewing ) were the uninspired THE BLACK TULIP ( 1964 ; from the same director as this one but not nearly as good ) , the surprisingly effective LADY Oscar ( 1979 ; which had originated as a Japanese manga ! ) and the splendid CARTOUCHE ( 1962 ) . Actually , I had watched this one not too long ago on late-night Italian TV and recall not being especially bowled over by it , so that I was genuinely surprised by how much I enjoyed it this time around ( also bearing in mind the baffling lack of enthusiasm shown towards the film here and elsewhere when it was first announced as an upcoming DVD release from Criterion ) . Incidentally , FANFAN LA TULIPE has quite a bit in common with the afore-mentioned CARTOUCHE : not just cast and crew members ( producers Georges Dancigers and Alexandre Mnouchkine , cinematographer Christian Matras , actor Noel Roquevert ) but plot-wise as well ? in fact , the hero is a womanizing soldier ( Jean-Paul Belmondo's Cartouche had also had a brief military spell ) who's loved by a fiery girl ( in this case , gypsy Gina Lollobrigida ) while he's himself obsessed by an impossible love ( here , it's none other than the king's daughter ) ! As in the later film , too , Fanfan ( an ideally cast Gerard Philipe who , ironically , is so full of life here that one finds it hard to believe that he would be stricken down by cancer within 7 years ' time ) is flanked by two fun-loving yet cowardly men ( one of them is actually his superior officer and the heroine's own father ) and opposed by an unscrupulous figure within his own ranks ( the ageing Roquevert , with whom the hero eventually engages in a rooftop duel since he too has amorous designs on the gypsy girl ) ! ; for the record , Lollobrigida will rejoin Philippe in her next film , Rene Clair's delightful romantic fantasy LES BELLES DE NUIT ( 1952 ) . FANFAN proved to be a big box-office hit on its home-ground and even copped a surprising ( but well-deserved ) Best Direction award at Cannes over more renowned films like AN American IN Paris ( 1951 ) , DETECTIVE STORY ( 1951 ) , OTHELLO , UMBERTO D . and VIVA ZAPATA ! In fact , its popularity ensured its re-release in a computer-colored version ( presumably for the benefit of viewers who wouldn't touch a black-and-white product with a ten-foot pole ) and the Criterion DVD itself contains a sample from this variant ; being obviously a foreign-language title , there's also the dubious choice of an English-dubbed soundtrack but , even if these proved not especially painful to sit through considering , when all is said and done , there's simply no substitute for the original ! FANFAN LA TULIPE ( a nickname given the hero by a young Genevieve Page as the celebrated Madame De Pompadour ) contains about as much comedy as ( the expected ) action and romance ; while some may find this overwhelming , I don't agree myself as I enjoyed the sharply satirical narration and , on the whole , this combination is comparable with Jerzy Skolimowski's equally droll THE ADVENTURES OF GERARD ( 1970 ) . That said , the swordfights here are remarkably forceful for an essentially lighthearted enterprise ( particularly a scuffle in the woods and the ambush at a convent ) and the film itself rather adult at times ( with numerous allusions to sexuality as well as coarse language adopted throughout ) when viewed back-to-back with vintage Hollywood fare as I did now ; the climax , then is quite ingenious : the enemy forces ( who , amusingly , are made to speak in speeded-up gibberish ! ) are depleted by our heroic trio alone , much to the king's amazement who , as portrayed by Marcel Herrand ? best-known for his role of leader of the Parisian underworld in Marcel Carne''s CHILDREN OF PARADISE ( 1945 ) ? is himself something of a lecher . P . S . An Italian TV channel has been threatening to screen Christian-Jaque's promising CHAMPAGNE FOR SAVAGES ( 1964 ) for months now but , despite programming it three times already ( with a tentative fourth one slated for next week ) , they have yet to show it ; even so , I do have three more films of his in my unwatched VHS pile ( equally culled from late-night Italian TV screenings ) : the three-hour epic LA CHARTREUSE DE PARME ( 1948 ; also starring Gerard Philippe ) , THE SECOND TWIN ( 1967 ) and THE LEGEND OF FRENCHIE KING ( 1971 ; with Brigitte Bardot and Claudia Cardinale ) .
FROM HAND TO MOUTH ( Alfred J . Goulding , 1919 )	This is quite a good Harold Lloyd short , perhaps the best I've watched so far . During the first reel , the comedy centers somewhat uneasily around the lead character's poverty - but then it picks up with a lengthy chase involving the entire police district ( actually anticipating Buster Keaton's more celebrated COPS [ 1922 ] ) ; likewise , Lloyd's ineptitude as a burglar brings to mind Laurel & Hardy's later Talkie short NIGHT OWLS ( 1930 ) . The subplot about an attempt to fleece heroine Mildred Davis out of an inheritance ( by a shady lawyer with the revealing name of Leech ) is also interesting ; given a macabre spin , it would soon see service in many an ' old dark house ' thriller . Apart from Davis , Lloyd is supported in this one by two other amiable characters - a little street girl and her brave injured dog .
THE MAN WHO RECLAIMED HIS HEAD ( Edward Ludwig , 1934 )	This little-known drama is often mistakenly thought of as a horror film by virtue of its luridly suggestive title , its being a Universal production and the appearance of several horror stalwarts . Actually , it's quite splendid and very stylish , making the most of its Grade A budget . Claude Rains is marvelous as ever in the title role and is superbly supported by a wonderful cast - a blonde Joan Bennett , a treacherous Lionel Atwill , Wallace Ford , Gilbert Emery , Edward Van Sloan ( the latter two are actually uncredited and appear very briefly ; so , too , does Valerie Hobson according to the IMDb , thought I didn't spot her ) ! The unusual , thought-provoking ( and sadly , more topical than ever ) plot , taking a critical look at political opportunism , spin doctoring and warmongering , is nicely handled all around , with as much care given to the touching domestic life of the main characters as to the period detail or its vigorous scenes of warfare and political discussions . The effectively filmed finale ( which gives the film its title ) is a highlight and , hopefully , it should be able to get a new lease of life whenever the film is released on DVD , even if it has to be passed off as a horror title to make it ; however , I don't think many will complain of this once they've seen it but will instead be very thankful that it has finally been made available on the newest home video format . Are you listening , Universal ?
THE DEVIL'S REJECTS ( Rob Zombie , 2005 )	Rob Zombie's follow-up to his entertaining directorial effort , HOUSE OF 1000 CORPSES ( 2003 ; see comments above ) is that rare thing nowadays : a sequel which improves on the original in practically every way . The five members of the crazed family reprise their roles with the exception of Karen Black ( who is replaced here by Leslie Easterbrook ) and , by this time , they had grown nicely into their roles , especially Sheri Moon ( here billed as Sheri Moon Zombie ) who almost steals the film with her seductive performance from under the nose of her more experienced collaborators . I say almost because the film's acting honors actually belong to William Forsythe who is excellent as the vengeful sheriff ( brother to one of the police officers murdered in the first film ) hunting the family members down and , in a truly audience pleasing segment , almost succeeding in decimating them . However , before the film goes all DEATH WISH ( 1974 ) on us , Zombie delivers a nice twist which saves the murderous brood for a bullet-riddled final shoot-out with the police which would have made Sam Peckinpah proud . Actually , come to think of it , the film also opens with a similar shoot-out which obviously brings the comparisons with Peckinpah's magnum opus , THE WILD BUNCH ( 1969 ) , even more to the fore . Even more than its predecessor , THE DEVIL'S REJECTS is blessed by a literate and witty script which sends the film towards black comedy territory . The gore is there for all to see , of course , and the squashing of a fleeing victim by a truck is particularly nauseating . Interestingly , the victims this time around are not teenagers but rather a middle-aged rockabilly band ( led by a sprightly Geoffrey Lewis ) who at least try to resist their assailants . Zombie has delivered a livelier film all round peopled with past Horror / Cult film participants : not just Sid Haig , star of Jack Hill's SPIDER BABY ( 1964 ) but also Ken Foree ( DAWN OF THE DEAD [ 1978 ] ) , Michael Berryman ( THE HILLS HAVE EYES [ 1977 ] ) , P . J . Soles ( HALLOWEEN [ 1978 ] ) , etc . I loved the sequence where Forsythe , stumbling upon the fact that the family are using aliases of characters played by Groucho Marx in his films , invites a movie nut to give him the lowdown , whereupon the latter engages in a tirade against Elvis Presley for stealing Groucho's limelight ( much as Chaplin would steal Howard Hawks ' four months later ) by dying a mere three days earlier ! Naturally , the macho sheriff won't tolerate a single derogatory word being uttered against The King . . . Talking about music , thankfully Zombie shows taste even in his musical selections and the film has a killer soundtrack featuring The Allman Brothers Band , Terry Reid , Lynyrd Skynyrd , Three Dog Night and Joe Walsh . P . S . Clearly , Joe Karlosi's rating of this one was no fluke . . . although , naturally , while I liked the film a lot , I'm more modest ( although Joe would probably see that as conservative ) in my score !
DERSU UZALA ( Akira Kurosawa , 1975 )	The 1970s was not a particularly happy decade for Akira Kurosawa , Japan's foremost film director . It started with his being taken off of helming the Japanese sequences for the ambitious U . S . / Japan co-production of TORA ! TORA ! TORA ! ( 1970 ) , was followed by the critical and box-office disappointment of his first film to be shot in color ? DODES'KA-DEN ( 1970 ) ? and culminated in a horrible wrist-slashing suicide attempt which , thankfully , failed ! All of this , however , ensured the consequent dissolution of a recently-formed partnership with other major Japanese film-makers ? namely Kon Ichikawa , Keinosuke Kinoshita and Masaki Kobayashi . It's not all that surprising , then , that Kurosawa wandered off to Russia for his next venture ? but it is doubly ironic that his sole work away from his home-ground and made during such a lean creative period would eventually win him the Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award ! Among the other contenders for that honor were Dino Risi's SCENT OF A WOMAN and Andrzej Wajda's PROMISED LAND , but it was this slow-moving adventure ? redeemed by its stunning visual splendor ( in spite of the color fluctuation in the battered Kino print I watched ! ) ? which emerged triumphant . Not top-flight Kurosawa , then , but generally compelling nevertheless and providing a good balance between his trademark humanism ( although the majority of the Russians are tritely depicted as fun-loving and rather immature ) and action ( a scuffle with bandits , a river rescue , a tiger hunt ) . The best sequence in the entire film is a spectacular blizzard which bonds together trapper / guide Dersu Uzala ( remarkably played by Maxim Munzuk ) and the narrating Russian captain ( Yuri Solomin ) . This clash of cultures , therefore , turns into a celebration of friendship with its succession of dramatic , poignant , even humorous vignettes . Dersu's incompatibility with modern civilization ? an oft-used device during this particular era in cinema ? brings to mind THE ENIGMA OF KASPAR HAUSER ( 1975 ) and THE ELEPHANT MAN ( 1980 ) ; curiously , all three films were inspired by real events ( DERSU UZALA being based on his companion Vladimir Andreyev's memoirs , and which had been adapted for TV during the previous decade ) . By the way , knowing George Lucas ' fondness for Kurosawa , the amiable and pint-sized titular character here ? who has an awkward way with words but displays infinite wisdom throughout ? may well have inspired the puppet Yoda from the " Star Wars " saga ! Curiously enough , the film itself was distributed in the U . S . by none other than Roger Corman's New World company ! !
GUADALCANAL DIARY ( Lewis Seiler , 1943 )	This is one of the better ( and most topical ) of Hollywood’s wartime efforts , but which seems to have been largely overlooked among the surplus of such films – possibly because it was helmed by journeyman director Seiler . Still , the handling is entirely professional and the film makes the most of a good script by Lamar Trotti – peopled with believable characters ably portrayed by a fine cast ( Preston Foster , Lloyd Nolan , Richard Conte , Anthony Quinn , Richard Jaeckel ) . The requisite comic relief provided by William Bendix and Lionel Stander is slightly overstated . . . but , then , Bendix delivers the film’s most moving speech towards the end . The film – unavoidably jingoistic but , at the same time , realistic i . e . thankfully free of gung-ho heroics – balances taut action sequences ( culminating in the so-called " Great Offensive " ) with a handful of undeniably powerful , lingering images ( particularly the line-up of dead U . S . marines ambushed on a beach by the devious Japanese forces ) . I’ll be following this with Cornel Wilde’s well-regarded BEACH RED ( 1967 ) , which also deals with WWII combat in the Pacific ; besides , I also own – but have yet to watch – the R2 DVD of Lewis Milestone’s contemporaneous THE PURPLE HEART ( 1944 ) , which tackles similar events from a unique perspective .
DERANGED ( Jeff Gillen and Alan Ormsby , 1974 )	This is the first official cinematic account of necrophiliac mama's boy Ed Gein ( though the names have been changed ) ? for the record , he was the source for PSYCHO ( 1960 ) ' s Norman Bates , while the same year as DERANGED another established genre classic , THE Texas CHAIN SAW MASSACRE , drew on his notorious exploits . Incidentally , this viewing came via the German Special Edition DVD which contains the infamous brain removal scene ( albeit in footage displaying inferior quality to the remainder of the film ) missing from the MGM / UA R1 disc . The film is well enough done , hinging on Roberts Blossom's excellent leading performance ( most creepy when he mimics his dead mother's voice ) ; however , the latter half ? in which he extends his activities to include murder ? elicit a genuine eeriness , which is remarkably similar to what Tobe Hooper would do with Texas CHAIN SAW ( especially when the sluttish barmaid stumbles into Blossom's house and is ' met ' by a ghastly dinner gathering of corpses , and the man himself in hideous make-up ! ) . The evisceration finale , then , contains the requisite dashes of nudity and blood-letting which post-Vietnam era theatergoers ? and genre fans in particular ? had grown accustomed to by that stage . Still , one isn't quite sure how to react to Ezra Cobb ( the Gein figure ) ? which makes for somewhat detached viewing ( of course , for all their faults , one is more readily sympathetic towards his victims ' plight ) and , this , in spite of intermittent asides / interjections by a geeky narrator grounding the events in a solid reality . There is , however , a definite and agreeably comedic undertone to the scenes involving the fat lady-cum-mystic who persuades Cobb to attend a séance ostensibly to contact his late mother but which only exposes the woman's own essential loneliness ( to her ultimate dismay ) . By the way , the film was made by several associates of late Canadian director Bob Clark ( DEATHDREAM [ 1974 ] , BLACK Christmas [ 1974 ] , MURDER BY DECREE [ 1979 ] , etc . ) ? including composer Carl Zittrer , whose work here adds yet another layer of unease to the proceedings .
HANGMEN ALSO DIE ! ( Fritz Lang , 1943 )	One of a handful of propaganda films made by Hollywood during WWII to show how various occupied European countries dealt with the situation ; similar films included THE MOON IS DOWN ( 1941 ) , EDGE OF DARKNESS ( 1943 ) , THE NORTH STAR ( 1943 ) and THIS LAND IS MINE ( 1943 ) . This one , however , differs from these in that it tackles a real-life event i . e . the assassination of Heydrich - dubbed " The Hangman " ( his assassination was the subject of two more films , the contemporaneous HITLER'S MADMAN [ 1943 ] and OPERATION DAYBREAK [ 1975 ] ) - and is further elevated by the contribution of two important figures of pre-war German art , director Lang and writer Bertolt Brecht . It also features a great cast ( mostly delivering excellent performances , but is saddled with a miscast and rather stiff Brian Donlevy in the lead ) : Walter Brennan and Gene Lockhart are featured in overly familiar roles but their contribution is , as ever , reliable and entirely welcome ; best of all , perhaps , are Anna Lee and Alexander Granach ; beloved character actor Dwight Frye ( most familiar to horror-film buffs ) appears here in one of his last roles but , as was generally the case , is regrettably given only a couple of lines ! Long and heavy-going , with the propagandist element coming off as fairly corny now , but the film is held firmly together by Lang's fine direction and James Wong Howe's superb noir-ish lighting ( the Region 1 DVD by Kino was eventually re-issued as part of a 5-Disc Noir set ) . It also involves a couple of scuffles which are quite tense and energetic ( Granach's death scene is especially striking ) , while the last third resorts to the organized frame-up by the Czechs of a traitor in their midst ( collaborationist Lockhart ) - which , in itself , is no less frightening an act than the heinous persecution of the Nazi regime ! I'm confused , however , about the film's running-time : the print I watched ran for 129 minutes in PAL mode ( which would bring it to about 134 minutes when converted to NTSC ) ; even so , it contains the ending missing from the DVDs released in Regions 1 and 2 which , being the same version i . e . cut and having the same length ( 134 minutes ) , would indicate that the Kino edition is a PAL conversion - which means a full running-time of 139 minutes ( a minute short of the ' official ' length , as per Lotte Eisner's book on Lang ) ! To make matters worse , both the Leslie Halliwell and Leonard Maltin film guides I own cite HANGMEN ALSO DIE ! as being 131 minutes long ! !
REDACTED ( Brian De Palma , 2007 )	My love of the arts ( and cinema in particular ) has probably led to patriotism being the quality I least value ? given that I live on so small an island that we have no local film industry and the barest minimum of full-time artists ! It follows , therefore , that other people's claims that REDACTED is un-American ( and therefore worthless in their eyes ) do not effect me and , for what it's worth , I can look at the thing objectively ? even though , admittedly , the film itself is anything but objective with respect to the Iraqi conflict . I've watched several recent films that have dealt with this latest war ? THREE KINGS ( 1999 ) , BLACK HAWK DOWN ( 2001 ) , FAHRENHEIT ( 2004 ) , JARHEAD ( 2005 ) , etc . ? but this is perhaps the most personal , significant and controversial of the lot . The choice of technique ? a series of short films ( one of which was in French ) , Internet links , Internet terrorist messages , interrogation aftermaths , HD footage ( which , during the rape sequence , makes the captain look almost like a vampire ! ) etc . ? was a clever one and gave the clichéd events / characterization a much-needed freshness . Besides , pieces of classical music ? which are also heard in Stanley Kubrick's BARRY LYNDON ( 1975 ) ? are effectively used here . Having mentioned Kubrick , I couldn't help but be reminded of the Vincent D'Onofrio character in his FULL METAL JACKET ( 1987 ) by the figure of the obese and aggressive soldier in the film under review . He and his pals are involved in the afore-mentioned rape ( of an underaged Iraqi civilian ) which leads to a retaliation in the form of an abduction ( of one of their own number ) ? but this is presented in such a contrived fashion that I was laughing helplessly throughout it all ( which could hardly be further from the director's intentions ) : how on earth did the kidnappers know that the Angel Salazar character ( the geeky film student who's keeping a record on DV of the conflict ) was one of the quartet involved , and how was his camera retrieved ? Incidentally , this viewing followed soon after CLOVERFIELD ( 2008 ) ? which applies a comparable cine'-verite ' approach to a monster-on-the-rampage movie . Likewise , the unexpected and violent death of the black captain ? via a booby-trap couch lying on a garbage heap ? brought back memories of recent personal events . It's good to see De Palma going back to his Godardian roots , as well as being relevant again ; having said that , he had already tackled very similar material almost 20 years ago in CASUALTIES OF WAR ( 1989 ; which I haven't yet seen ) . In this context , however , I don't quite know how to read De Palma's next project ? which also looks back to one of his biggest Hollywood successes ( being a prequel to his own THE UNTOUCHABLES [ 1987 ] ) . Ultimately , nothing he did before or since has managed to displace PHANTOM OF THE PARADISE ( 1974 ) from being my favorite movie from this director . . .
THE GHOST SHIP ( Mark Robson , 1943 )	The least ' horrific ' of Lewton's films ( the title is certainly misleading ) and , for this reason , generally the least appreciated - though the fact that it remained unseen for decades due to accusations of plagiarism ( ! ) didn't help matters . However , it's consistently interesting and , naturally , highly atmospheric ; the film is also notable for being largely set in one location , as well as for utilizing voice-over from a lesser character ( a mute , played by the cadaverous Skelton Knaggs , acting as a sort of Chorus throughout but who is instrumental during the climax ) . Again , Lewton and Robson make the most of their second-rate cast - beginning with a ripe performance from lead Richard Dix ( he was a Silent star who had achieved his greatest success with the original version of CIMARRON [ 1931 ; a Best Picture Oscar winner which I've had on VHS for a good number of years but have yet to watch ! ] , so that his presence here is surprising - if also a typically offbeat touch by Lewton - but the film did lead him to " The Whistler " , a series of 7 low-budget thrillers which I've always been intrigued by ) ; especially good , as ever , is Edith Barrett ( at the time , Mrs . Vincent Price ! ) in the film's solitary female role ; Sir Lancelot , who appeared with Barrett in I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE ( 1943 ) , is one of the seamen but his role here is largely undistinguished ; hero Russell Wade is okay under the circumstances ( he had played a bit part in THE LEOPARD MAN [ 1943 ] and would eventually appear as Henry Daniell's young assistant in THE BODY SNATCHER [ 1945 ] ) - his role is interesting in that he suspects ship's captain Dix of being unbalanced and a homicidal maniac after his own blood and , while being ' trapped ' with him at sea , can't bring himself to convince the rest of the crew to his point of view ( a situation which creates some genuine tension throughout ) ! However , as a result of having no end titles attached to it ( a direct contrast to the neverending ones for today's films ! ) , there's a regrettable omission in mentioning significant characters like the one played by the legendary Lawrence Tierney ! ! With this in mind , it's all the more unfortunate that no Audio Commentary was recorded for the film . . .
AN ANGEL FOR Satan ( Camillo Mastrocinque , 1966 )	This was " Scream Queen " Barbara Steele's last of nine Italian horror films ( for the record , I've still got TERROR CREATURES FROM THE GRAVE [ 1965 ] and THE SHE-BEAST [ 1966 ] to catch up with ) and the one that was hardest to come by until recently . With this in mind , the print on display still left a lot to be desired ? panned & scanned , fuzzy picture quality and the audio filled with extraneous noise ( particularly during the second half ? where it seems that someone's tapping on computer keys somehow got mixed in with the film's soundtrack , recalling a similar incident found on the original DVD of SON OF Dracula [ 1943 ] ! ) . AN ANGEL FOR Satan ? the title , by the way , is a misnomer ? was also probably the last of the vintage Gothic Horror outings from this country to be shot in black-and-white ( imbued with a touch of poetry not easily replicated by the more delirious color titles ) . Incidentally , I'd watched director Mastrocinque's sole other foray ( also in monochrome ) in the genre ? the " Carmilla " adaptation CRYPT OF THE VAMPIRE ( 1963 ) , starring another horror icon in Christopher Lee ? which I remember liking quite a bit , but whose recording ( made off late-night Italian TV ) I subsequently foolishly erased . To get back to Steele's European output , a common thread running through most of them is that she plays a look-alike descendant of some diabolic ancestor ( beginning with the very first , Mario Bava's seminal BLACK Sunday [ 1960 ] ) ? and this one's no exception though , in its case , she emerges to be more of a victim ( which , I guess , is what the title is ultimately alluding to ) . Having mentioned Bava , while his one picture with Steele was the director's official debut , his swansong ? the fascinating ( made-for-TV ) THE VENUS OF ILLE ( 1978 ) ? actually shares much of its plot line with AN ANGEL FOR Satan ! Indeed , here we also have the discovery of an ancient statue bringing a series of calamities upon a small community consumed by superstition ? and where the blame is placed at the doorstep of newly-arrived Lady of the Manor Steele ( since the figure was made in the image of her forebear ) . An interesting ( if unlikely ) twist is that the woman of the past played by Marina Berti ? who , jealous of Steele's popularity with the menfolk , had tried to destroy the statue but tumbled down along with it into the river beneath ? also has a like-minded i . e . vindictive descendant ( her ultimate fate , then , emerges to be predictably ironic ) . That said , the narrative makes it seem at first as if the old Berti has taken possession of the new Steele ? until hero Anthony Steffen ( the sculptor entrusted with restoring the icon ) uncovers the whole scheme which also sees Steele's current guardian ( Claudio Gora ) , enamored of Berti , involved ( hypnotizing his charge into committing nefarious deeds so as to elicit the ire of the townspeople who , in getting rid of the girl , would make him legal proprietor of the estate ! ) . Steele , in fact , is made to turn heads yet again ? particularly those of the more gullible members of the community : village idiot , shy schoolteacher , his equally naïve girlfriend ( ! ) and who also happens to be Steele's own personal maid , and the town strong-man . She seduces all ( often by casually taking off her clothes in their presence ? though we see next to nothing , screen permissiveness having only just been broken with the likes of THE PAWNBROKER [ 1965 ] and BLOW-UP [ 1966 ] ) and ' causes ' them to act in extreme ways ? the first becomes a serial rapist / killer ( on whom the villagers eventually turn en masse ) , the second commits suicide ( in the classroom of all places ! ) as a result of the maid breaking off her relationship with him and the fourth sets fire to his own home ( with the rest of the family still inside ! ) . By now , of course , Steele was well-versed in this type of role ? so , it's no surprise that she turns in a typically multi-layered performance ( with her striking looks intact ) . However , she's matched by the brooding Steffen ( later a regular of Spaghetti Westerns and Gialli ) ? and , equally impressive is Francesco De Masi's evocative score ( it's pure happenstance that several titles I've been watching in my ongoing " Euro-Cult " marathon bear his signature ! ) .
THE PANIC IN NEEDLE PARK ( Jerry Schatzberg , 1971 )	Until the mid-Fifties , the taboo theme of drug addiction in films was either fleetingly mentioned - as in MYSTERY OF THE WAX MUSEUM ( 1933 ) - or ridiculously overblown as in the REEFER MADNESS ( 1936 ) school of movies but , with the appearance of films like Otto Preminger's THE MAN WITH THE GOLDEN ARM ( 1955 ) and Nicholas Ray's BIGGER THAN LIFE ( 1956 ) , Hollywood producers showed that they had learned to treat it in an objective , mature and sensitive way . But , with the the runaway box office success of EASY RIDER ( 1969 ) , the subject got its own unexpected little niche and the general public was for the first time allowed to wallow in a no-holds-barred view of the junkie lifestyle ; of course , I am discounting films like Shirley Clarke's THE CONNECTION ( 1961 ; which I've never watched myself ) and the Andy Warhol Factory movies which are anything but mainstream Hollywood products . I can't say I've watched many of those 1970s drug-related movies and , off hand , only John G . Avildsen's JOE ( 1970 ; with Peter Boyle and Susan Sarandon ) and Ivan Passer's BORN TO WIN ( 1971 ; with George Segal and a young Robert De Niro ) come to mind . Even so , I'd say that THE PANIC IN NEEDLE PARK is arguably the bleakest , grittiest and most realistic screen portrayal of drug addiction I've ever watched - at least , until Darren Aronofsky's REQUIEM FOR A DREAM ( 2000 ) ; for one thing , while most films of the era made extensive use of the contemporaneous rock scene , this one has no musical underscoring at all . Frankly , I've had the film on VHS recorded off Cable TV for over 10 years and only now managed to catch up with it because my father rented it on DVD ( and , subsequently , turned it off before long ) ! Indeed , the scrappy first half-hour is rather off-putting and dreary and it wasn't until the main protagonists - Al Pacino ( already superb in just his second movie ) and Kitty Winn ( who would go on to win the Best Actress Award at the Cannes Film festival for her work here ) - really got together that I started to genuinely care about their plight ; perhaps the most moving scene they share is their short-lived idyll in the country where the couple even purchase a dog with the little money they have ( but lose it almost immediately through negligence when the urge for the drug habit kicks in once again ) . Subsequently reduced to prostitution , Winn is watched over by a sympathetic young cop but soon he's demanding that she turn Pacino over to the law . At the end of the film the couple are reunited , but it looks like their relationship has nowhere to go .
DREAMGIRLS ( Bill Condon , 2006 )	Adapted from a Broadway show but with additional numbers written specifically for the film , this is a rare and brave attempt at an all-black musical . While it was surprising to have GODS AND MONSTERS ( 1998 ) ' s Bill Condon at the helm , it is confidently made and the musical numbers are energetically staged . Interestingly , the songs aren't just performances by the central group or their irreverent front-man but , at particularly dramatic moments , also serve as a commentary on the narrative itself . While I don't feel that the kind of music involved here can sustain a film of this length ( unlike , say , a rock opera ) and the second half is incredibly maudlin , the film succeeds by virtue of its meticulous recreation of an era ( the hairstyles are fairly hilarious though ) and its sounds , and the sheer force of the acting ensemble . Of these , the most acclaimed have deservedly been Eddie Murphy and Jennifer Hudson : the former clearly delivers his best-ever performance as a James Brown-like R & B singer ( not that it was hard for him to top his work in the films he's been making for the past 20 years ! ) but he only really shines in his character's last number , where he goes on stage drunk and embarrasses himself in front of live and TV audiences ; in hindsight , his storming off of the Academy Awards ceremony for failing to win the Best Supporting Actor Oscar was an infantile gesture . As for Jennifer Hudson , prior to watching the film I was skeptical about how deserving she really was of all the accolades her role garnered but , actually , her performance is the best and most heartfelt in the film and she manages to steal all the scenes she's in from under the noses of her more seasoned colleagues . Having said all that , however , where the film falls is in the blandness and predictability of the narrative : there was no way the Beyonce ' character was not going to be boosted to diva status , no way Eddie Murphy was not going to fall for one of the Dreamettes , no way he was not going to end up dead , no way his manager ( played by Danny Glover ) was not going to be pushed by the wayside , etc . The " reunion " happy ending , too , is something of a cop-out because the film , after exposing the underbelly of the music industry , steers clear of addressing how this will eventually affect the fate of its protagonists .
Tombs Of The Blind Dead ( 1971 )	After his undistinguished first foray into the Horror genre with the vampire flick , MALENKA aka FANGS OF THE LIVING DEAD ( 1969 ) , Amando De Ossorio struck gold with the saga of satanic Knight Templars who rise from the grave ( centuries after their demise at the hands of the Catholic Church ) to feed on the living . Along with an ingenious decision to make the creatures ( and their horses ! ) move very slowly , the look of " The Blind Dead " ( as they came to be known ) with their hollow eyes - which had been nibbled at by crows ! - and accompanying eerie Gregorian monks chant-like theme , was decidedly creepy and memorable . As with your typical Euro-Cult fare , the film's pace is somewhat lethargic at times , with endless scenes of characters searching through labyrinthine passages for their companions who have gotten themselves conveniently lost ; however , as I said , this is more than made up for by those scenes depicting the marauding Templars ( who resort to hunting through sound ) and , especially , the sequence where they rise from their tombs shrouded by fog . The ending is a downbeat , open-ended one which neatly paves the way for subsequent outings . I had first heard of this series through an old Horror film tome of my father's but , by the time I got into DVD , Anchor Bay's double-feature DVD had gone out-of-print ; I did get to watch the shorter U . S . version of the film , entitled simply THE BLIND DEAD , courtesy of a friend of mine but it has taken Blue Underground's recent DVD edition of the full-length Spanish version for me to fully appreciate this landmark Horror film . Incidentally , my disc does have the noticeable audio dropout which had been remarked upon by fans but , personally , it did not bother me that much as it barely lasts a second !
BEATRICE CENCI ( Riccardo Freda , 1956 )	There've been many cinematic versions of the famous medieval tale ; most notable were the ones directed by two " Euro Cult " masters , this by Freda and Lucio Fulci's 1969 film . Besides , Bertrand Tavernier's LA PASSION BEATRICE ( 1987 ) was inspired by Freda's take - Tavernier being an admirer and personal friend of the Italian film-maker . The title role is played by Mireille Granelli , whose film career didn't prove very prolific - though she does well enough here . The plot involves a girl's mistreatment at the hands of her tyrannical father - feared and hated by all and , again , played by Gino Cervi ( from THE IRON CROWN [ 1941 ] ) ; eventually accused and tortured as an accomplice in his murder , she ends up beheaded for refusing to divulge the whereabouts of her lover ( Fausto Tozzi ) . Besides , the father is incestuously drawn to his daughter , and there's a similar relationship going on between his weakling son ( latter-day " Euro-Cult " star Anthony Steffen ) and his stepmother ( Micheline Presle ) ! It's not quite as sordid as it sounds - at least not in Freda's film , which I would call the " Hollywood " version of the tale : a lavish melodrama which is almost operatic in treatment and presentation ( Franco Mannino's full-blooded score , the elaborate sets and the vivid color scheme certainly attest to this ) , it's basically the Italian equivalent of the contemporaneous work of Douglas Sirk ! The film also makes full and careful use of the widescreen frame : characters are often positioned on the sides and separated by an object - usually a window - to give the whole a sense of depth . Unfortunately , the ratio in the version I watched has been somewhat compromised because the right side of the frame is evidently cropped during several scenes ; I also experienced a continuous and distracting echo on the soundtrack , not to mention slight picture loss during the crucial final scene ( the ironic aftermath of innocent Beatrice's tragic execution ) . . . I've watched all three films - 1956 , 1969 and 1987 - in pretty close proximity and they're all excellent , but also quite different stylistically : Fulci's , unsurprisingly , is the most visceral ( with considerable attention devoted to the torture scenes - which here are also aimed at the lover , played by Tomas Milian ) but giving vent , too , to the director's much-publicized anti-clericalism ; Tavernier's - concentrating on the psychology of the characters amid a painstaking if distinctly cheerless recreation of the Middle Ages - is , then , clearly the most realistic i . e . least stylized one . P . S . Incidentally , I had intended to precede the film with a viewing of an earlier historical effort by Freda - IL CONTE UGOLINO ( 1949 ) - recorded off late-night Italian TV ; however , during the first couple of minutes , the battered print involved featured so many missing frames - and , consequently , lines of dialogue - that it was impossible to follow . . . and maddening to experience , to say the least ! An impromptu research on the Internet suggested that this unfortunate deficiency was a constant throughout the entire broadcast - so I thought it best to let go for the time being , even if I'll keep the recording and maybe summon enough courage to give it another try somewhere down the line . . .
Frankenstein Meets The Wolf Man ( 1943 )	I know this one was tampered with during production - losing in the process the monster's ability to speak ( acquired again at the end of the previous film , THE GHOST OF FRANKENSTEIN [ 1942 ] ) - but I must say that I've always been somewhat let down by it ! While individual scenes are nicely handled ( by Roy William Neill , at the time also busy directing the Basil Rathbone " Sherlock Holmes " series at the same studio ) - particularly the eerie graveyard opening , Chaney's transformation scenes and the climactic showdown - the main ' gimmick ' feels forced and doesn't work as well as it's supposed to ; the main culprit , I would say , is the miscasting of several key roles . Much has been said about Bela Lugosi's inappropriateness for the part of the monster : to be fair to him , since he had played Ygor in the previous film - whose brain was now lodged in the monster's body - this bit of casting was a logical one but , unfortunately , his approach to the role ( at least , what's been left of it ) is uninspired and , frankly , embarrassing ! However , Ilona Massey as Baroness Frankenstein ( ! ) and Patric Knowles as the mad scientist ( surely the least engaging in the entire series ) fare no better - and here , yet again , we have to contend with a horde of conspiring villagers ( led once more by Lionel Atwill , and including Dwight Frye in one of his last roles , albeit a minor one ) hellbent on destroying the Frankenstein estate . . . which makes one genuinely wonder about who goes about rebuilding it , seeing how it's destroyed at the end of every picture ! ! Lon Chaney Jr . and Maria Ouspensakaya , naturally , reprise their respective roles from THE WOLF MAN ( 1941 ) - though the latter adds little of real value to the plot , especially since the aura of superstition and the tragic inevitability of the werewolf curse which had imbued the original are not as pronounced here and , in any case , would obviously not be as fresh the second time around ! I wonder , too , how Frankenstein was suddenly deemed a healer ( of abnormal maladies to boot ! ) when his name never brought anything above dread and contempt in the town ( whose name alternates from Frankenstein to Vasaria from picture to picture ! ) where he practiced . . . ! ! In the end , the film is a most enjoyable romp ( aren't they all ? ) and certainly important for showcasing the " multiple-monsters " formula - which only really worked in the superior and obviously spoofy ABBOTT & COSTELLO MEET FRANKENSTEIN ( 1948 ) , by the way - but it's not quite in the same league as its werewolf predecessor , or the other major Universal horror outings .
CARRY ON NURSE ( Gerald Thomas , 1959 )	The second in the popular series is one of the best , but also the first in a quartet of medical lampoons from this stable – the others being CARRY ON DOCTOR ( 1968 ) , CARRY ON AGAIN , DOCTOR ( 1969 ) and CARRY ON MATRON ( 1972 ) ; I’ve watched the latter but not the other two , though I should be able to get to them fairly soon . . . Anyway , coming very early in the series , CARRY ON NURSE – which manages to make the most of its single setting – isn’t as crude or as slapdash as a good many of the later entries regrettably proved to be : in fact , it’s pretty much in the vein of classic British comedy of the time ( such as the satirical films by the Boultings ) . The cast brings together several practiced performers in the field : Kenneth Connor ( his " Cor , Blimey " attitude as a boxer with a broken hand is somewhat reminiscent of Norman Wisdom ) , Kenneth Williams ( having a less central role than would be the case later but in quite good form as a bookworm nuclear scientist who’s also something of a misanthrope ) , Charles Hawtrey ( playing a radio fanatic , where his prissy antics are already a bit over-the-top ) , Joan Sims ( as an accident-prone nurse ) , Hattie Jacques ( as the fearsome Matron – which became her trademark role ) , Wilfrid Hyde-White ( as an old man whose military record allows him privileged service at the hospital but hasn’t rescinded his gambling mania ! ) , Leslie Philips ( as a fun-loving sort who in a drunken binge with his fellow patients decides to have them perform his delayed operation themselves – the latter scene is the film’s hilarious highlight where , predictably , laughing gas is let loose at the most inopportune moment ) . The nominal leads here are actually Terence Longdon as a recovering reporter and gorgeous Shirley Eaton as the idealized nurse , who provide the obligatory romantic interest ; Jill Ireland ( the future Mrs . Charles Bronson ) has one of her earliest roles as the girl who finally ensnares Williams , while both Michael Medwin and Norman Rossington appear briefly – as , respectively , Connor’s manager ( a self-proclaimed showman ) and a punch-drunk remnant of the boxing profession . Other gags revolve around a snob patient who’s continually embarrassed by his commoner wife , another who’s occasionally compelled to run riot in the corridors , and an impossibly solemn-looking student nurse . Apart from throwing Longdon and Eaton in each other’s arms , the denouement sees the release of several of the ‘star’ patients from the hospital – and culminates with the long-suffering nurses’ revenge on the fastidious Hyde-White , by fitting a daffodil in his rectum instead of a thermometer just as the Matron is making her rounds !
FRENCHMAN’S CREEK ( Mitchell Leisen , 1944 )	Director Leisen , who started out as Cecil B . De Mille’s art director , was one of Hollywood’s supreme stylists throughout the 1930s and 1940s ; unfortunately , his reputation has dwindled in recent years and , consequently , much of his filmography has so far been neglected on DVD ( only DEATH TAKES A HOLIDAY [ 1934 ] , HANDS ACROSS THE TABLE [ 1935 ] and GOLDEN EARRINGS [ 1947 ] are available – with EASY LIVING [ 1937 ] and MIDNIGHT [ 1939 ] coming up ) ! While he’s best-known for sophisticated comedies in the vein of Lubitsch , Sturges , Wilder et al – all four , incidentally , worked most often at Paramount – he also dabbled in other genres ( or mixed them with utmost confidence ) and , this , in fact is a costumer / romance / swashbuckler all in one ! The film is based on a novel by Daphne DuMaurier – very popular around this time , including two Hitchcock adaptations ( JAMAICA INN [ 1939 ] and REBECCA [ 1940 ] ) ; the latter had made a star of Joan Fontaine , who also fills the leading role here – throughout the decade , she would appear in a number of costumers ( JANE EYRE [ 1944 ] , IVY [ 1947 ] , LETTER FROM AN UNKNOWN WOMAN [ 1948 ] and , later on , IVANHOE [ 1952 ] and CASANOVA’S BIG NIGHT [ 1954 ] ) . Lavishly-mounted ( copping an Oscar for Hans Dreier’s production design ) and shot in rich Technicolor ( as was the case with THE Spanish MAIN [ 1945 ] by George Barnes and an Academy Award winner , incidentally , for the afore-mentioned REBECCA ) , Leisen is ably served by the fine cast he managed to assemble in this case . Even if he’s supposed to be French , Arturo de Cordova is a most interesting choice for the dashing and virile pirate ; I acquired a soft spot the Spanish actor after viewing his impressively nuanced central performance in Luis Bunuel’s study of pathological jealousy EL ( 1952 ) – still one of the most fascinating character studies ever put on film ! Basil Rathbone is a stalwart in this type of film , though he’s a lecherous aristocratic villain here rather than a rival swordsman for the hero ; his startling death scene at the hands of Fontaine is an undeniable dramatic highlight . Cecil Kellaway is terrific as Fontaine’s amiable but mysterious butler , who’s eventually revealed to be a foremost member of de Cordova’s pirate entourage ; the popular Australian character actor would soon after play the painter Gainsborough in another costumer by Leisen , KITTY ( 1945 ) – a variation on " Pygmalion " starring Ray Milland and Paulette Goddard which remains one of the director’s finest films . Smaller roles were given to Nigel Bruce , typically obtuse and pompous as an aristocratic pirate victim ( interestingly , this is the only film he and Rathbone would make together outside of their classic , and long-running , " Sherlock Holmes " series ) and Ralph Forbes in the role of Fontaine’s insufferably fey husband . Incidentally , being aware of Mitchell Leisen’s homosexual tendencies ( together with those of executive producer David Lewis ) , one can hardly escape the film’s gay subtext : apart from the afore-mentioned character of Fontaine’s husband ( who is clearly more interested in his best friend Rathbone ) , Fontaine herself dresses up as a cabin boy for a chunk of the movie , De Cordova is often seen bare-chested and surrounded by his handsome lieutenants , his crew gleefully dress up in the women’s clothing they’ve just pillaged , etc . With a not inconsiderable length of 112 minutes , the film’s first half – more akin to the so-called " woman’s picture " – is somewhat leisurely-paced and rather dreary . However , it eventually bursts into satisfying excitement and suspense – with such sequences as the pirates’ theft of a merchant ship from the docks , de Cordova’s decision to confront the nobility gathered at Forbes’ estate to plan his apprehension , the ensuing scuffle between the two factions and , finally , after the hero has been cornered and jailed , his shrewdly-organized flight from captivity with the help of the loving Fontaine and the devoted Kellaway . The CASABLANCA-like finale , in which the dutiful mother Fontaine sacrifices her own happiness to return to a repentant husband and their children , is unusual for this type of film and only adds to its already apparent value as a superior example of the genre ( s ) .
THE SKULL ( Freddie Francis , 1965 )	This was among the first vintage horror films I recall watching , but it took me this long to re-acquaint myself with it ( after I had foolishly abandoned the prospect of a second viewing as part of a late-night Italian TV program hosted by two amiable ghouls ? the same thing would also happen with Hammer's FRANKENSTEIN AND THE MONSTER FROM HELL [ 1974 ] , which I then had to wait some 13 years to catch up with ! ) . Anyay , though the film's premise , in itself , is rather daft ? that of a host of antiquarians being ' possessed ' by the skull of the Marquis De Sade ? the result is very stylish and altogether one of Hammer rival Amicus ' most satisfying outings . Apart from director Francis , the men behind Amicus ? Max J . Rosenberg and Milton Subotsky ( the latter also scripted , from a story by Robert Bloch of PSYCHO [ 1960 ] fame ) ? again recruited Hammer's two most popular stars , Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee , for this production . As ever , they play extremely well off each other ? even if Lee , ostensibly , is only a " Guest Star " ? delivering typically committed performances : Cushing has fun acting crazy ? under the influence of the skull ? towards the end ( and also during a surreal nightmare sequence in which he's forcefully taken before a judge who promptly hands him a gun to play at Russian Roulette ! ) , whereas Lee gives surprising poignancy to his role . Supporting them is a splendid cast indeed ? led by Patrick Wymark , who actually matches the stars with his seedy supplier of generally weird artifacts , and the brief ( albeit equally welcome ) presence of the likes of George Coulouris , Michael Gough , Nigel Green and Patrick Magee ! While Francis creates wonderful atmosphere via the cinematography ( particularly when shooting through the skull's eyehole ) and the set design ( the film starts off as a period piece but then reverts to a modern-day setting for the central plot line ) , I do feel that the possibilities presented by the nonetheless intriguing theme are regrettably constrained by censorship and budgetary restrictions ? so that the Marquis De Sade's legacy seems somehow to have been mixed up with that of Jack The Ripper ! In any case , THE SKULL is generally considered nowadays as Francis ' best directorial effort ? though I personally feel NIGHTMARE ( 1964 ) , THE PSYCHOPATH ( 1966 ) and THE CREEPING FLESH ( 1973 ) to be superior to it ?
THE BURNING COURT ( Julien Duvivier , 1962 )	Another " victim " of the French Nouvelle Vague - a distinguished film director who found himself unceremoniously falling out of fashion within critical circles - was undoubtedly Julien Duvivier . Admittedly , his best work was behind him by then in such classic films like PEPE LE MOKO ' ( 1937 ) , UN CARNET DE BAL ( 1937 ; one of Michael Caine's favorite films ! ) and PANIQUE ( 1947 ; a rumored upcoming Criterion DVD release ) but , if this obscure but richly rewarding suspenser is any indication , his cinematic and narrative skills did not desert him with age . Apparently , the original source novel by John Dickson Carr is a celebrated ( and much more sophisticated ) literary piece but even if this film adaptation ( by renowned screenwriter Charles Spaak ) constitutes an oversimplification , one cannot deny the fact that it is highly polished entertainment nevertheless . The plot ingeniously combines two prolific subgenres in the horror film lexicon , " the old dark house " and " the witch's curse " , dealing as it does with an 18th Century witch being deceived by her lover - a policeman dressed as a monk ! - thereby unleashing a vengeful curse on his ancestors which decrees that every subsequent head of the family dies a violent death . This event is not depicted in the film but merely referred to throughout and we immediately jump into the present with a female ancestor of the witch - played by the beautiful Edith Scob from Georges Franju's EYES WITHOUT A FACE ( 1959 ) , here with her hair bleached blonde - being invited with her novelist husband to a château in the country which , as it happens , is owned by the ancestors of the witch's duplicitous lover . The latter are a despicable bunch of amoral opportunists with the two young heirs greedily awaiting the demise of their cantankerous 75-year old uncle which could occur at any moment . One night , every member of the household ( including his nurse ) desert the old man for their own egotistical purposes and Scob and her husband volunteer to stay home and watch over him themselves . . . Apart from the illustrious trio in the behind-the-camera personnel ( Duvivier , Spaak and music composer Georges Auric ) , the film boasts atmospheric lighting by Roger Fellous and a cast of willing performers : the afore-mentioned Scob , Jean-Claude Brialy ( as the more level-headed of the two heirs ) , Claude Rich ( as his worthless playboy brother ) , Nadja Tiller ( as the lovely nurse who , ultimately , is not as loyal as she makes out to be ) , etc . There are elements of the supernatural ( when the murderer is seen passing through the walls of a closed room by the housekeeper or when the body vanishes from the interred coffin and reappears sitting in a chair in the family chapel ) and black comedy ( when the mourners at the funeral waltz around the still open coffin at the deceased's own request ) involved which only add to the fun . It would be a mistake to reveal more of the twists and turns the plot takes in the second half of the film - which also introduces the character of a no-nonsense police inspector - but I'll say only that it all ends rather too abruptly perhaps ( immediately after the ironic final revelation ) leaving the fate of some of the major characters pretty much unresolved .
LOVE FROM A STRANGER ( Rowland V . Lee , 1937 )	Interesting British-made suspenser - from an Agatha Christie story , no less - which feels quite dated today due to the low budget and a rather slow pace ( though the atrocious condition in which it's available doesn't help matters any ! ) , but survives nevertheless by virtue of its excellent leading performances . I've watched Ann Harding in only a few other films - most notably PETER IBBETSON ( 1935 ) - but , even if she has been largely forgotten , here again she proves her standing as one of the unsung actresses of her time . Basil Rathbone relishes his role as the suave murderer and the latter stages of the film allow him to go into all-out hysterics in much the same way ( and under the same director ! ) as he would , memorably , in SON OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1939 ) ; in fact , the last 15 minutes create a genuinely electrifying tension that are basically the film's raison d'etre . Rowland V . Lee has perhaps never been a highly regarded film-maker but , from what little I've seen of his work , he was a reasonably efficient craftsman and , given promising material , he always turned in a quality product ( the two films of his I would most love to catch up with are the definitive screen version of THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO [ 1934 ] and TOWER OF London [ 1939 ] , yet another Rathbone collaboration ) .
NO NAME ON THE BULLET ( Jack Arnold , 1959 )	This mature , psychological Western was the first feature film director Jack Arnold made after that exceptional run of Sci-Fi movies ( made during the genre's heyday of the 1950s ) for which he is deservedly best-known . Diminutive real-life war hero Audie Murphy atypically stars as a black-clad notorious hired killer whose appearance in a sleepy Western hamlet instills fear in several of its supposedly respectable citizens who each believe that their own past has come back to haunt them . Murphy lazes about town , quietly downing mug after mug of coffee in the saloon and indulging in the occasional game of chess with friendly town doctor-veterinarian Charles Drake . He never lets on whom he has come for ( which is a given to everyone but Drake ) but lets the increasingly paranoid townspeople unravel in front of him and , in some cases , settle their age-old disputes among themselves . The final revelation that he had actually been hired to eliminate the least likely candidate ( i . e . the most respectable and most harmless citizen ? an old wheelchair-bound Judge ) and that the latter , unbeknownst to Murphy , only has six months to live anyhow , packs a real ironical wallop . Interestingly , Murphy had so far been able to get away with 23 killings because he always managed to coerce his victims into drawing their guns on him first ; in this case , he contrives to molest the Judge's daughter in his hotel room and tell him about it afterwards ! The cast also includes R . G . Armstrong ( as Drake's blacksmith father ) , Whit Bissell ( as a corrupt banker ) , Warren Stevens ( who gets all liquored up to face Murphy but nothing comes of their meeting ) , Virginia Grey ( as Stevens ' contemptuous lover ) , Jerry Paris ( as the Sheriff's reluctant deputy ) and Karl Swenson ( as Bissell's tough business partner ) . A terse , offbeat Western that concludes in a unique confrontation between Murphy and Drake ( who happens to be engaged to the Judge's daughter ) where the former is disarmed and disabled by a gavel thrown at his right arm ; incidentally , this unusual object had featured prominently in a scene at the beginning of the movie ? at which point , my father ( who was watching the film with me ) proceeded to reveal the ending he recalled from an almost 50-year old theatrical screening !
THE SONS OF KATIE ELDER ( Henry Hathaway , 1965 )	This is yet another of John Wayne’s large-scale , crowd-pleasing Westerns : his films may have become increasingly out-of-touch , given the maturity the genre gained with the arrival of the Italian " Spaghetti " style and the work of Sam Peckinpah , but they were always solidly professional jobs which consistently delivered in the entertainment stakes . Actually , I too used to take these latter-day Wayne vehicles for granted ( of his 70s work , for instance , I still have to catch up with the atypical McQ [ 1974 ] – despite the fact that it’s been a regular on Italian TV since my childhood days ! ) and , in fact , when this film itself turned up on local TV ( in the P & S format , of course ) , I watched it but didn’t bother to record it . . . and was even left unimpressed ! ! It may be due to the fact that I’ve just gone through a run of The Duke’s films in honor of his 100th Anniversary , but I found myself more receptive to it this time around : the plot , simple as it is , being nonetheless reasonably compelling as Wayne and his three brothers ( Dean Martin , Earl Holliman and Michael Anderson Jr . ) contrive to get to the bottom of their father’s violent death and the ensuing loss of the family ranch to a greedy landowner ( James Gregory ) ; the latter has a wimpish son ( Dennis Hopper ) , so he appoints a stout and aggressive gunman ( George Kennedy ) to defend him against the Elders . The film marked a reunion for Wayne and Martin after RIO BRAVO ( 1959 ) in somewhat similar roles ( if not nearly as sparkling ) – a legendary man of action and a gambling rogue , respectively . Feminine interest is provided by Martha Hyer , while Paul Fix – a stalwart of 27 Wayne films , and something of a mentor for The Duke himself – has a particularly good role among the supporting cast of veterans . Interestingly , I’m finding a lot of these films to be of a less brawling and broadly comic nature than I recalled ; they all have their serious turns ( for instance , three of the brothers here are wounded or killed by the end of it ) and the villains and their cohorts are generally depicted as being anything but caricatures , rather they are believably dangerous ! Still , it does acquiesce to formula now and then : although the historical figure of Katie Elder herself never actually appears , she’s talked about by the townsfolk in a basically glorified manner ; we’re asked to believe Wayne and Michael Anderson Jr . ( with an age difference of almost 40 years ) as brothers , leading the elder ( sic ) siblings to patronize the boy incessantly – and which , at one point , evolves into a completely gratuitous free-for-all among the clan ! Buoyed by a typically majestic Elmer Bernstein score , the film rises to a pretty good extended climax – which goes from an ambush beside a bridge to a siege in a barn and , finally , an explosive showdown between Wayne and James Gregory at the local gun depot . This was the fifth of six official pictures Wayne made under Hathaway’s direction ( his name is associated in an uncredited capacity with A LADY TAKES A CHANCE [ 1943 ] and he helmed one of the three segments which comprise HOW THE WEST WAS WON [ 1962 ] , but not that in which Wayne himself appeared ) : it was an uneven collaboration which , however , culminated in TRUE GRIT ( 1969 ) – the film for which the star finally won his Oscar . . .
THE SLENDER THREAD ( Sydney Pollack , 1965 )	The late Sydney Pollack tried his hand at several different genres and succeeded in most ; since he never demonstrated an individualistic style ( for many he was the antithesis of an auteur ! ) , he could adapt himself to virtually anything ( and Pollack often set his sights on grand themes ) – though the end result would always be somewhat artificial ( if undeniably slick ) because of the director’s impersonal approach ! Anyway , for his debut film , he settled on an intimate melodrama – shot on location in glorious black-and-white ( incidentally , all his subsequent work would be in color ) . The plot is simple : Sidney Poitier is a student who works nights at a Seattle Crisis Clinic ; on one occasion , a call comes in where a wealthy socialite at the end of her tether ( Anne Bancroft ) declares she has deliberately overdosed on barbiturates ! She phoned not so much because she wanted help but rather so that someone will know of her outcome ; Poitier , however , determines to keep her on the line – while he sets in motion a complex operation in order to trace Bancroft’s whereabouts and save her life . For about the first third of the film , Bancroft barely appears : we only hear her world-weary voice booming across the room at the clinic , Poitier having switched the call to the loudspeaker ; eventually , she starts to let her hair down and , in intermittent flashbacks , we see her movements during the last few days ( which boils down to her alienation from familial cords due to a past mistake which has come back to haunt her ) . While this was certainly a way to do it , I’m baffled as to why we never cut to where Bancroft is now until the last act : consequently , we have to contend with a fair bit of padding during the ‘re-enactments’ ( which could have easily been covered via dialogue delivered by the heroine ) ! That said , I guess it was a conscious decision on Pollack’s part to ‘open up’ the drama ( not merely to include other characters – most prominently , Steven Hill as the woman’s husband – but also to utilize a number of exteriors , where he was able to exercise a keen eye for realistic detail ) . Still , the film compels attention despite an essentially contrived central situation : for instance , at this point , it’s best not to go into how Bancroft manages to remain lucid for so long or , even more importantly , why she just doesn’t hang up on Poitier ; and what about the plausibility of the latter’s temper-tantrums ( to the exasperation of clinic psychiatrist Telly Savalas ! ) to coerce the woman into reacting , thus hanging on to life in spite of herself ? But that’s Hollywood for you . . . and , in a talky film such as this , the emphasis is on the writing ( by Stirling Silliphant ) and the acting ( Bancroft is typically excellent and Poitier’s contribution , amounting to a variation on his PRESSURE POINT [ 1962 ] role , just as good if slightly overstated in the long run ) . Even so , as a counter-balance to the ongoing histrionics , reasonable suspense – aided by up-to-date methods of detection – is generated throughout by the race-against-time to locate Bancroft . At the end of the day , THE SLENDER THREAD emerges as a quite impressive ( and generally still powerful ) first outing – recalling the gritty work of many a contemporary film-maker who , like Pollack , had emerged from TV .
MILADY AND THE MUSKETEERS ( Vittorio Cottafavi , 1952 )	Although I’m planning to make next month a " Euro-Cult " marathon , I chose to watch this very stylish Italian swashbuckler now to augment my viewing of Allan Dwan’s musical version of THE THREE MUSKETEERS ( 1939 ) since the former is a prequel to ( and an alternate take on ) the classic Alexandre Dumas tale . I’ve always been partial to spin-offs of famous yarns myself and , as a matter of fact , the film takes the viewpoint of Milady De Winter ( where we’re even told of her life before acquiring that title ) . Dumas himself would utilize his famous Musketeers characters in at least three other novels – " The Man In The Iron Mask " , " Twenty Years After " and " The Executioner of Lille " which is what this film is an adaptation of and was indeed the film’s original Italian title ( although it was changed internationally to make the connection with the popular swashbuckling classic that much more clearer ) ; incidentally , back in Hollywood they were contemporaneously filming in Technicolor an adaptation of " Twenty Years After " under the title AT SWORD’S POINT with Cornel Wilde and Maureen O’Hara ! Vittorio Cottafavi is a prolific and largely unsung genre director with a distinctly pictorial style which is well in evidence here , right from the arresting pre-credit sequence that cleverly gives a foretaste of a crucial moment from the climax : the entrapment of Milady in a barn by the titular executioner and the four musketeers . Atypically for swashbucklers , therefore , the events leading up to her capture then unfold in flashback . The film proves interesting in both plot ( a compelling and largely unfamiliar narrative laden with romance , intrigue and action – but where characterization is still given its due ) and execution : Cottafavi’s use of shadowy lighting and mobile camera-work is particularly effective , while giving the whole a breathless pace . Nominal male star Rossano Brazzi is belatedly introduced as the Comte De Fer who immediately falls for Milady ( formerly Anna de Beuil and soon-to-be Duchess of Buckingham ) and later pursues her as an embittered but dashing Athos of the King’s Musketeers . Sensual brunette Yvette Lebon is perfectly cast as the cold-blooded woman who escapes her life of drudgery in a convent by enslaving every man she meets including the executioner’s younger brother ( Armando Francioli ) who hangs himself in a prison cell when she abandons him for a life of political intrigue under the direction of Rochefort ( Massimo Serato ) who’s often bemused by Milady’s audacity and resourcefulness . Jean-Roger Caussimon as the Executioner of Lille is the only man able to resist her and for this she demands Rochefort for his life . His lovely young daughter ( Maria Grazia Francia ) not only sees her uncle destroyed by Milady but also her own fiancé and , during the afore-mentioned opening , she herself is at the mercy of Milady’s dagger before the latter’s timely come-uppance . While Richelieu is often mentioned throughout , he doesn’t make a personal appearance this time around and , similarly , the other famous musketeers get very little mileage here ( where D’Artagnan is , besides , unaccountably presented as both blond and fey ! ) ; incidentally , another peculiar historical detail is the English army’s depiction as a bunch of kilt-wearing Scots ! The whole exhilarating brew is propelled by a fine score , alternating between moody and rousing , by Renzo Rossellini . Unfortunately , the VHS copy I watched ( culled from a late-night Italian TV screening ) suffered from yet another spell of distracting extraneous noise on the soundtrack !
A LAWLESS STREET ( Joseph H . Lewis , 1955 )	This is really no lesser an achievement than the renowned Randolph Scott / Budd Boetticher Westerns ; then again , director Lewis was no slouch ( for he made his fair share of minor classics ) ! Scott's role is typical ? a legendary marshal involved in a HIGH NOON ( 1952 ) - type situation , where he's practically left alone to clean up a town riddled with corruption and violence ? but the underrated actor invests it with warmth , humor , tenacity and a quiet dignity . The star , then , is supported by a most excellent cast : Angela Lansbury ( a fine actress but a rather unlikely chanteuse ) , James Bell ( a usurped town leader ) , Jean Parker ( an ageing belle and the latter's wife ) , Wallace Ford ( predictably in the role of the reliable town doctor ) , Ruth Donnelly ( as Scott's gracious elderly housekeeper ) , Jeanette Nolan ( as the wife of a revenge-seeking ex-con whom Scott has killed in self-defense ) , and an interesting trio of villains ? powerful boss Warner Anderson ( who also fancies himself a ladies ' man and , in fact , strikes up relationships with both Parker and Lansbury throughout ) , shifty but nervous gambler John Emery and smooth gunslinger Michael Pate ( making for a worthy opponent to Scott ) . The above-average script by Kenneth Gamet ( an in-joke shows the calendar in the hero's room as being sponsored by Gamet's Vegetable Compound ! ) gives characterization reasonable depth : Scott and Lansbury are married but she had left him because of his dangerous job ( a situation which she has to live through again now ) ; Scott tells Donnelly that he hears The Beast ( which symbolizes the scourge of the town ) every morning until it's replaced by church-bells at the end of the picture . The highlights ? most of the action seems to take place in and around one particular saloon , though in a montage we're shown that Anderson's ' protection ' extends to many others in town ? include an energetic and brutal fistfight between the hero and a dim-witted giant ( who subsequently joins forces with him ) , an astonishing shoot-out two-thirds of the way involving Scott and Pate which ends with the former left for dead , and the splendid extended climax . On top of it all is the pleasing cinematography by an expert in color lensing , Ray Rennahan .
SECRET CEREMONY ( Joseph Losey , 1968 )	Whatever one may say about it - obscure ( and obscurely-titled ) , deliberately-paced and exasperating - there's no denying the hold the film has on receptive viewers . Not quite in the same league as Losey's THE SERVANT ( 1963 ) or ACCIDENT ( 1967 ) , similarly compulsive - and vague - examinations of relationships ( though some may disagree , given that Leonard Maltin rates it while the www . cultmovies . info website even goes all the way and awards it ! ) , but it's certainly a film which should have received greater exposure over time ; I only know of one late-night broadcast on Italian TV some years back , which I had missed . Needless to say , this is a dialogue-driven film ( though the audio on Universal's no-frills R2 DVD comes off muffled on occasion ) and George Tabori's adult script provides many a juicy line for the actors ( particularly Robert Mitchum ) to sink their teeth in . Not surprisingly , the film features quite a bit of mirror imagery - which is in keeping with the prevalent doppelganger theme . There is , however , an unusual emphasis on religion : Taylor is a devout churchgoer ( despite being , ostensibly , a streetwalker ! ) and often takes recourse in praying . Elizabeth Taylor was at her artistic peak during this time ( resulting in one of her most controlled and less annoying performances ) - though her real-life obsession with fashionable clothes and elaborate hairstyles proves a distraction alongside the psychological analysis ( on the lines of Ingmar Bergman's PERSONA [ 1966 ] ) the director is striving for ! Mia Farrow as Taylor's surrogate child-like daughter is no less impressive here than her astonishing turn in ROSEMARY'S BABY ( 1968 ) . Mitchum's role - which has a dash of CAPE FEAR ( 1962 ) in it - is arguably the most unusual he's ever played ( even more so than his unforgettable mad preacher in THE NIGHT OF THE HUNTER [ 1955 ] , in my opinion ! ) and , while I'd be interested to know what he really thought about the whole thing , his leering and abusive ( verbally to Taylor and physically to Farrow ) interloper certainly lends the film an added charge of tension - not to mention another possible mode of interpretation ! Pamela Brown and Peggy Aschroft are Farrow's elderly eccentric aunts - unacknowledged by the family ( being related to Taylor's deceased first husband , whom they idolize ) , they have resorted to kleptomania on their rare visits to the mansion ! A couple of confrontation scenes - between Taylor and the greedy relatives and , later , between Mitchum and Taylor at the holiday resort - are very well-handled and emerge as highpoints of the film . Ditto for the sequence in which Farrow goes bonkers when left alone in the house , bringing to mind the Catherine Deneuve of REPULSION ( 1965 ) ; her death scene , then - calling inaudibly for help after the departing Taylor - is equally harrowing . In this respect , Gerry Fisher's velvety cinematography , Richard Rodney Bennett's delicate yet playful score and Richard MacDonald's artful production design ( though , thankfully , Reginald Beck's editing is more or less straight-forward - as it could easily have gone the way of the fragmented style of film-making championed by the likes of Richard Lester and Nicolas Roeg , then coming into fashion ! ) are the perfect partners in the consummation of Losey's distinctive vision on the screen .
Kolchak : The Night Stalker ( Various , 1974-5 ) ( TV )	A couple of years back I had purchased ( and enjoyed ) the MGM double-feature DVD of the two Kolchak TV movies , THE NIGHT STALKER ( 1971 ) and THE NIGHT STRANGLER ( 1972 ) . When the Universal set of the subsequent TV series came out , I had intended to buy it immediately – but rumors of playback issues with the dreaded DVD-18s kept me from adding it to my collection ; recently , I placed an online order which consisted of a spate of discounted Universal Box Sets and decided to pick up the KOLCHAK 3-Discer as well . Having watched it now , I can safely say that I didn’t regret acquiring this beloved ( if short-lived ) crime / horror series one bit : it may follow a standardized formula – dogged and resourceful newspaperman Carl Kolchak , marvelously played by Darren McGavin , gets into everybody’s hair with his attitude ( flustered editor Simon Oakland , long-suffering colleagues , assorted authoritarian figures , a plethora of monsters and villains ) , faces up to the inevitable ( and usually supernatural ) threat alone but , finally , is pressured into keeping his story under wraps – but a winning one ( further boosted by an impressive line-up of guest stars and notable behind-the-scenes credits ) , making the show a great deal of fun . That said , quality varies from one episode to another and the modest budgets afforded them results in special and make-up effects which sometimes leave a lot to be desired ( for instance , the werewolf in the eponymous entry and the goofy alligator creature in the very last installment ) – not to mention the fact that these were restricted to 50-minute programmes and intended for family consumption to boot rather precludes a simplified and wholesome rendering of its often intriguing psychological and metaphysical themes ( in the case of the werewolf , again , he’s never seen biting anyone but , somewhat foolishly , is made to merely throw people around ) ! While the hero’s cynical narration does a lot to pull one into the fanciful plots , there’s a healthy dose of comedy relief involved in each episode ( often , but not exclusively , revolving around McGavin’s relationship with either Oakland or geeky reporter Jack Grinnage ) – to say nothing of reasonable atmosphere ( the setting , for the most part , is Chicago ) and suspense . To make the ride even more pleasant , there’s a bouncy score by Gil Melle ' and Jerry Fielding . For the record , the monsters encountered ( but not always defeated ) by Kolchak throughout the series are : a revived Jack The Ripper , a variety of cults ( voodoo , Native American , Aztec ) , aliens , vampire , werewolf ( going round its over-familiar concept by having this particular episode entirely set on a cruise-liner ! ) , doppelganger , Satanist , swamp creature , mass of electricity , robot , apeman , witch , headless motorcyclist , succubus , a knight’s armor taking a murderous life of its own ( the episode with perhaps the best supporting cast – featuring John Dehner as a morose police captain , Hans Conried and Robert Emhardt ) , Helen Of Troy ( ! ) and crocodile . Some of the actors ( other than those playing Kolchak’s co-workers ) return in the same roles – Keenan Wynn and Ramon Bieri ( both as officers of the law ) , John Fiedler ( as a shrewd morgue attendant ) and Richard Kiel as two distinct nemeses of the hero . If I were pressed to choose the finest ( or most entertaining ) episodes , I’d lean towards HORROR IN THE HEIGHTS ( co-starring Phil Silvers and Abraham Sofaer ) and the afore-mentioned THE KNIGHTLY MURDERS – while , as the weakest , I’d go for THE WEREWOLF ( due to reasons I’ve already explained ) and CHOPPER ( based on a story concocted by Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale ! ) . Unfortunately , the set contains no extras : it would have been nice to see a featurette discussing the numerous concepts dealt with in KOLCHAK : THE NIGHT STALKER , as well as putting the series into the context of where TV was at the time of its original airing , or even denoting the lasting influence it had on the apparently endless run of sci-fi series popular today . In fact , Kolchak himself – in a much younger and ostensibly darker guise – returned in a 2005 revival ; this version is available at my local DVD rental outlet . . . but , for various reasons , I’m not sure I’d want to check it out so soon after the 1974-5 classic !
The Passion Of The Christ ( 2004 )	Its many controversial elements aside , I found it undeniably harrowing in its violence but somewhat lacking in character development ( Christ , especially , is presented as one-dimensional which doesn't allow him much empathy from the viewers , despite one's knowledge of how the ' story ' went - surely not what Gibson intended ! ) though it does have unmistakable artistic merit , notably a number of striking images : the putrefied donkey whose rope Judas uses to hang himself , and the raven which comes to sit on the ledge of the cross and starts pecking at the bad thief's face ( immediately after the latter ' provokes ' Christ into doing one last miracle ) were unexpectedly surreal touches ; a bloodied Christ looking up at a white dove flying into the scene just after the scourging was almost poetic in its incongruity ; God's tear falling from Heaven , and the recurring presence of an androgynous Satan , etc . In the end , it's not quite the definitive statement on the subject one would have expected ( given the director's sometimes punishing fussiness over getting the details right above all else ) , and certainly not as challenging as Martin Scorsese's equally notorious THE LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ ( 1988 ) . . . or Robert Bresson's DIARY OF A COUNTRY PRIEST ( 1950 ) , for that matter , which I rewatched the very next day - courtesy of Criterion's SE DVD - as a means of comparison , and which I found infinitely more absorbing , and moving , in its depiction of one ( misunderstood ) man's ' calvary ' with its simple yet beautiful images and thought-provoking scenes of quiet despair , confirmation of faith , and the agony of impending death ; another film I would say is a far better representation of Christian sentiment / assertion than Gibson's film is Carl Theodor Dreyer's masterpiece THE PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC ( 1928 ; whose very title indicates that it too eschews Joan's ' history ' for a thorough account of her final hours on Earth ) .
MARE NOSTRUM ( Rex Ingram , 1926 )	This is a lavishly produced wartime romance and , as is typical of Ingram , quite stylishly handled ( benefiting also from the fact that it was filmed in Europe , the director himself being based in France ) . The plot places its old-fashioned impossible and , inevitably , tragic love story against the backdrop of a nostalgic view of the sea and the simple fisher-folk who live and die in it , the bourgeoisie with their stuck-up attitude and high ideals and , naturally , an impending world-war situation ; for all that , it's most interesting when dealing with the various espionage elements and especially the two submarine attacks ( which must have been a novelty at the time ) led by a bald-headed and aristocratic German officer , obviously inspired by Erich von Stroheim ! Still , Alice Terry's poignant performance as the female spy ( who has mixed emotions about her mission and who happens to be the spitting image of Amphitrite , the Sea Goddess who protects fishermen ) is the core of the film ; this was perhaps the best role she ever had ( directed , naturally , by her husband ) . Antonio Moreno is less impressive as the male lead , though his disheveled appearance when forced to work for the enemy and following his son's death ( for which he is partly to blame ) is appropriately world-weary . The beautiful and poetic finale , then , sees the drowning Moreno ( after his ship was torpedoed by the sub he helped fuel ! ) being picked up by Amphitrite herself . Reportedly , this was Ingram's favorite among his own films - as well as Terry herself and Moreno , too !
TRESPASS ( Walter Hill , 1992 )	Enjoyable , fast-moving action flick which manages to make the most of its single situation – two white men in search of gold hidden years before are besieged inside a dilapidated building in a black neighborhood by a local street gang . Despite the modern trappings ( street-smart attitude , rap music , excessive foul language ) , the film is distinctly old-fashioned – in a good way – in its characters’ moral codes and plot development . One can see affiliations with John Huston’s THE TREASURE OF THE SIERRA MADRE ( 1948 ) with the squabbling white men in the Humphrey Bogart and Tim Holt roles , and the wily old black tramp who inhabits the apartment where the loot is stashed filling in the old Walter Huston part ( the black gang , then , would be the Mexican bandits led by the scheming Alfonso Bedoya ) . Of course , this connection is tenuous at best ( since the Huston film has much more scope , whereas this is mostly confined to its apartment-building setting ) – but director Hill , or the surprising writer / producer team of Robert Zemeckis ( ! ) and Bob Gale , may well have looked at the earlier classic for inspiration . Needless to say , the cast of this one ( led by Bill Paxton ) is no comparison to Bogart et al but the rude and suspicious tramp character is fun – and , unsurprisingly , is the one to come out on top at the end . Thankfully , too , Hill has lost none of his flair in the handling of action sequences . . . even if , in the long run , the film doesn’t have the lasting power of his best work , namely THE DRIVER ( 1978 ) , THE WARRIORS ( 1979 ) and SOUTHERN COMFORT ( 1981 ) .
Voice Of Silence ( G . W . Pabst , 1953 )	Another aspect of my Catholic upbringing that I recall from my childhood days are Lenten Services which , apart from this obscure Italian movie emanating from the twilight years of the great German director G . W . Pabst , I do not think I have really ever seen dealt with in the cinema . For the uninitiated , Ash Wednesday inaugurates a period of solemnity , penance and contemplation for devout Christians all around the world that effectively ends on Easter Sunday . During this time , one is expected to give up on some of his daily cravings especially for sweets and dessert ? equivalent to the 40 days of fasting that Jesus Christ spent in the desert by himself . Likewise , Christians are called to Church for special meetings called Lenten Services ? that are generally sorted by category : married couples , singles , senior citizens , professionals , religious societies , social clubs , etc . ? in which they reflect on The Gospel and how it applies to the world today . Well , VOICE OF SILENCE brings together several Italians to one such meeting for professionals presided over by an elderly priest ( Eduardo Ciannelli ) : politician Jean Marais , candle manufacturer Aldo Fabrizi , former soldier Daniel Gelin , a pulp novelist and even a thief ! Gradually , we come to realize that each member of the congregation has his own personal demon to confront ? Marais cannot bring himself to forget ( or forgive ) that one of his sabotage missions while with the Resistance caused the death of 3 innocent civilian bystanders ; Fabrizi's trade is being threatened by a loss in demand due to the introduction of synthetic candles ; Gelin is not only tubercular but , having been given up for dead , cannot bear the humiliation of seeing his former wife walking around the streets of Rome with her new husband and their kids ; the novelist sets out to write the Great Italian Novel but , begrudgingly and on the advise of his Macchiavellian agent ( Paolo Stoppa ) , countered continual rejection by selling himself short and give the common people the lurid reading material they seemed to hunger for , and so on . Within the Church walls themselves , a young priest is having a faith crisis and is almost on the point of quitting his calling before fate intervenes in the film's closing sequence . As usual , the rotund , bug-eyed Fabrizi can be relied upon to provide fleeting moments of hilarity as he forms an unlikely alliance with the thief , in an attempt to come out on top of his particular dilemma ? despite the imposition of enjoying no contact with the outside world throughout the duration of the Services . In his first of two films that he made in Italy , Pabst has ( for the most part ) understandably relinquished the visual stylistics that had made him a force to be reckoned with during the Silent / early Talkie era but , while perhaps being a minor work within his distinguished canon , VOICE OF SILENCE is still sufficiently well-acted , sensitively handled and altogether unusual to make it a satisfactory viewing .
Clash By Night	Despite several of the genre's quintessential elements ( director Fritz Lang , director of photography Nicholas Musuraca , Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Ryan ) , this is not a film noir in the strict sense of the word and , in fact , as was the case with DILLINGER ( 1945 ) , it made for a rather baffling choice to be included in Warners ' " Film Noir Collection Vol . 2 " ! Actually , it's one of Lang's least typical films , though his beloved theme of Man being unable to escape his Fate does in fact play a major part in the proceedings . In any case , CLASH BY NIGHT remains full of interest throughout and the melodramatic flourishes of the ( familiar ) ' love triangle ' plot - adapted from a stage play by Clifford Odets ( hence the tendency to overstate its points from time to time ) - seem to have inspired the cast and crew to give it their all : one simply can't ignore the excellent performances ( including a wonderfully disarming turn from Marilyn Monroe , not yet a star ) and the typically great , hard-boiled ( if often , necessarily , theatrical ) dialogue ( my favorites are two lines delivered , in his uniquely contemptible fashion , by Ryan - having had enough of a tediously uneventful night-out at the local tavern , he exclaims : " Excuse me while I shake this dump upside down ! " ; and describing the failed relationship with his estranged wife with the delicious " Sometimes I'd like to stick her full of pins . . . just to see if blood runs out ! " ) . Still , when all is said and done , perhaps the film's mostly notable for its remarkable documentary-style depiction of the fishing community ( Monterey , California ) in which it is set .
THE MAGICIAN ( Rex Ingram , 1926 )	Until a few months ago , when Michael Elliott added it to his list of films watched to be exact , I was under the impression that this was a lost title ? a view which was certainly true till the late 70s since Carlos Clarens , in his wonderful 1967 " Horror Movies " book , called it " probably the most elusive of lost movies " and even Leslie Halliwell , in the 1977 edition of his famous " Film Guide " , gives it as unavailable for reappraisal ! Indeed , virtually the only way I had previously known this film was via one intriguing still of the Hades sequence found in the section devoted to director Rex Ingram in the periodical " The Movies " ( published in the early 80s ) ? so , it's great that THE MAGICIAN has eventually seen the light of day ( albeit unofficially ) and , thankfully , it lives up to its considerable reputation ? to my eyes , at least . Ingram was one of Silent cinema's master visual stylists but is now a forgotten figure best-known for the Rudolph Valentino version of THE FOUR HORSEMAN OF THE APOCALYSE ( 1921 ) ; his retirement from films once Talkies came in suggests that , like D . W . Griffith , he was unable to adapt to the ongoing progress in cinematic technique and , indeed , his films ? like Griffith's ? have an inherently stilted quality to them which dates his output more than those of contemporary auteurs ! Anyway , this was my fourth Ingram movie after the interesting THE CONQUERING POWER ( 1921 ) , the fine if somewhat underwhelming THE PRISONER OF ZENDA ( 1922 ) and the rousing SCARAMOUCHE ( 1923 ) ; unfortunately , my copy of MARE NOSTRUM ( 1926 ) ? recorded off TCM UK ? got erased by accident before I had the opportunity to watch it . Alice Terry , Ingram's wife , appeared in 15 of his films and here plays the distressed virginal heroine ? who's the prime ingredient for the experiment concocted by the magician of the title ( Paul Wegener ) . The latter , best-known for his three " Golem " pictures made at the height of the " German Expressionist " movement , makes for an overwhelmingly menacing villain ? although I found his being a medical student quite amusing ( Wegener was 52 at the time of filming ! ) . By the way , the character of Oliver Haddo was based by novelist W . Somerset Maugham on notorious English Occultist and writer Aleister Crowley ! The film , an MGM production but shot in France ( where Ingram lived ) , is ostensibly a variation on the Frankenstein myth with a few Svengali overtones thrown in for good measure ; interestingly , Paul Wegener would star in an official version of that one in Germany the following year . Ingram's assistant director was the future iconoclastic English film-maker , Michael Powell , who also appears unbilled in a snake-charming sequence around the middle of the film ! As expected , the film is pictorially quite stylish ( shot by frequent Rex Ingram , Preston Sturges and Billy Wilder lenser , John F . Seitz ) , especially in the fantasy sequence set in Hades ? which must surely have left an indelible impression on Ingram's production manager here , Harry Lachman , to refer back to it when he came to direct the Spencer Tracy version of DANTE'S INFERNO ( 1935 ) ? and the finale set in a laboratory on a remote mountaintop , which uncannily prefigures ( literally step by step ) the similar climax at the end of James Whale's BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN ( 1935 ) ! ; as a matter of fact , Wegener even has a dwarfish assistant a ' la Dwight Frye in Whale's FRANKENSTEIN ( 1931 ) ? so , it's very possible that Whale had seen Ingram's film . One is all the more grateful , then , that a print of THE MAGICIAN has survived since it helps throw more light on the influences behind the greatest horror film ever made ( which also happens to be my all-time favorite film ) ?
SPIDER-MAN 3 ( Sam Raimi , 2007 )	I loved the first film ( which I watched twice in theaters ) but recall that the second installment was rather less enjoyable ; this seems to me to be slightly superior to its predecessor . Unfortunately , however , the action set-pieces are too dizzyingly-edited to be properly evaluated ; still , the high-rise stunt early on and the climactic battle of the mutants are undeniably spectacular . Besides , the complicated plot results in gross overlength - featuring yet another round of the Tobey Macguire / Kirsten Dunst / James Franco love triangle , too many adversaries for Spider-man ( with allegiances shifting frequently and unconvincingly ) , and a baffling insistence on the deaths of the Willem Dafoe and Cliff Robertson characters from the first film ! A platinum blonde Bryce Dallas Howard brings some much-needed freshness to the proceedings - though her role , ultimately , proves of little consequence . The Sandman's back-story is especially ludicrous and sentimental with an utterly wasted Theresa Russell as his resentful wife ; Venom , however , is interesting ( especially in the way he represents Spider-man's alter ego ) - but comes to the fore far too late into the game : his demise is nicely handled , too , but it's then ruined by the apparent necessity to eliminate the Topher Grace character . The scenes involving the ' Evil Peter Parker ' swagger , then , are eye-rollingly embarrassing , as is the musical number sung by Dunst during her disastrous Broadway stint ! The film allows Bruce Campbell yet another delightful cameo , and there's even a wonderful bit involving Spider-man co-creator Stan Lee . In the end , SPIDER-MAN 3 succeeds mainly as a slick and solidly entertaining ride ( as long as one doesn't analyze it too deeply ) .
MUPPET TREASURE ISLAND ( Brian Henson , 1996 )	Though it does not have the reputation of its predecessors , this is perhaps the most consistently entertaining Muppet movie so far ; like the previous entry , MUPPET Christmas CAROL ( 1992 ) , it transposes the lovable ' characters ' into the environment of a popular children's classic ? in this case , R . L . Stevenson's quintessential pirate yarn " Treasure Island " . Unlike the Dickens tale , this particular plot had never before been attempted as a musical ( much less a lampoon ) ? but , for the most part , it retains the flavor of the original ( despite innumerable modern interjections and in-jokes that sometimes fall flat ) and proves surprisingly faithful ( with the obvious modification so as to accommodate Miss Piggy ) . She appears as Benjamina Gunn , while Kermit is the ' fearsome ' Captain Smollett ( with Sam Eagle as his first-mate who likes to anticipate his would-be ruthless commands ) . Though usually the major figures in a Muppet show , Kermit and Miss Piggy ( their best bit involves them hanging over a precipice , with the former's eyeballs virtually bursting out of their sockets as he valiantly holds the latter by her feet ) are overshadowed here by Rizzo the Rat ? who , apart from being perennially hungry ( as was his custom ) , is instilled with a cynical outlook and nervous demeanor but also a shrewd business sense ( turning the " Hispaniola " into the poor man ? er ? mouse's cruise liner ) ! ? and a dopey-looking pirate goat appropriately dubbed " Clueless " . Also notable , though , is the vicious Blind Pew ( who prefers to address his particular affliction in modern parlance i . e . " visually challenged " ! ) ; The Great Gonzo is basically no more than his weird-looking self ( and that is all he needs to be , really ) , but Fozzie Bear is a hoot as the self-proclaimed " half-wit " son of Squire Trelawney ( who has named and carries conversation with his index finger ! ) . On the human front , we get two name actors ? Tim Curry as an adequately roguish Long John Silver and Billy Connolly ( with heavy Scots accent intact ) as Billy Bones ; the kid playing Jim Hawkins acquits himself well enough , too , and there is a hilarious running-gag early on involving the female inn-keeper's acute sense of hearing . Typically , the songs are no great shakes per se but serve their purpose for the duration .
THE BIG GUNDOWN ( Sergio Sollima , 1966 )	At the 61st Venice Film Festival , Quentin Tarantino named THE BIG GUNDOWN not only his favorite Spaghetti Western but one of the all-time Top 5 Westerns ( ! ) ; ironically , though I knew of the film's reputation and had actually already missed out on it on late-night Italian TV due to a power cut , I was all set to give it another miss because I had intended to attend a screening of the latest film by nonagenarian Portuguese film-maker Manoel de Oliveira during which he was also to be presented with a Life Achievement Award . . . but when , during a Press Conference , Tarantino singled out this one as being the film to see at the " Italian Kings Of The ' B ' " retrospective ( which he and Joe Dante were presiding over ) , I just had to be there - since , unlike most other titles at the Festival , it was reserved just that one screening ! The show , then , was delayed by an unattended bag left inside the theater from the previous screening which , incidentally , had been Ferdinando Baldi's Spaghetti Western BLINDMAN ( 1972 ) and , given the paranoid state of affairs post - , this necessitated the intervention of bomb disposal units / dogs / soldiers / police before anyone could be allowed to re-enter the hall and the projection of the next film could proceed ! If that wasn't enough , Joe Dante - who was present at the screening and my brother and I could overhear him waxing lyrical to his wife about the film's qualities - had to leave the theater after the first few minutes of the projection because , for some reason , English subtitles were not supplied with the only available print ! Anyway , let's get to the film itself : from the accompanying interview with director Sollima , I learned that the Tomas Milian role was originally intended for Gian Maria Volonte ' , who was to have played a much older " prey " - but then the characters ' ages were reversed . As it turned out , this was the first film to feature Milian's " Cuchillo " Sanchez character - a wily Mexican peasant and a dexterous knife-thrower - which he reprised in RUN , MAN , RUN ( 1968 ; also directed by Sollima and whose R1 DVD courtesy of Blue Underground I ordered following this viewing , also because it's the only remaining title from the company's " The Spaghetti Western Collection " set I have yet to watch ! ) . The original treatment ( by Franco Solinas ) was much more politicized but , even if this element was eventually toned down , it's still palpable in the film's critical depiction of the upper-classes - arrogant , duplicitous and perverse - vis-a'-vis the struggling and downtrodden but lusty ( and , by extension , virile ) lower classes . Lee Van Cleef has one of his best roles ever as renowned bounty hunter ( with an eye on a place in the Senate ) Jonathan Corbett ; to me , his relationship with Milian's character is one of the strongest ever to be established within the entire Western genre , and it's this that elevates the film above most non-Leone Italian efforts . Ennio Morricone provides one of his most eclectic and haunting scores that's weird and exhilarating at the same time , especially towards the end of the film when the song ( ironically called " Run , Man , Run " and with a heightened vocal rendition by Christy to match ! ) - which is also heard over the opening credits - is reprised . In contrast to the operatic and baroque styles adopted by the other two Sergios - Leone and Corbucci , respectively - Sollima utilizes a much more sober , humanist and , ultimately , realistic approach . The complexity of this film's script belies the general low esteem in which the genre is held ( being episodic in nature , with Van Cleef and Milian meeting up with a plethora of diverse characters during the course of the manhunt ; one of the most memorable scenes is when Van Cleef goes to look for Milian's wife , a feisty prostitute who verbally abuses her husband for having deserted her but then lashes out at Van Cleef when realizing his true intent , after which the latter is cornered by the entire local community ! ) ; indeed , at the time , these films were more authentic than the examples - the Western was then on its last legs - churned out by Hollywood . . . at least until THE WILD BUNCH ( 1969 ) came along ! I remember when the film was reviewed in a journal available outside the venue of the Venice Film Festival , it was described as having allegiances with the giallo genre - Milian is accused of being a serial rapist - but , having rewatched the film , this element isn't sufficiently stressed to make that connection ! One of its more interesting aspects , however , is the reciprocated respect that passes between Van Cleef and Austrian bodyguard / ex-military officer / aristocrat / marksman Gerard Herter ( whose character Sollima admitted to having based on Erich von Stroheim ) . This , in turn , gives way to a terrific extended climax : first , we see Milian duel with the real culprit of the crimes he's suspected of , then Van Cleef's stand-off with the Baron , and finally the confrontation between Corbett and the villainous railroad tycoon who appointed him to trail Milian in the first place . The cast also features a brief but striking turn by Nieves Navarro as a nymphomaniac rancher ( ! ) and Fernando Sancho as a Mexican policeman who , hating the revolutionaries as much as the Americans , is content to let them cut each others ' throat . I'm surprised , therefore , that the film has still to make it to R1 DVD but I'm glad I picked up the R2 edition : the remastered print is beautiful and the film contains a 15-minute interview ( though the video proved problematic initially ) with Sergio Sollima that was highly engaging , informative and even funny ( his quips about the highbrow Italian films of the time , the critics ' darlings as opposed to the largely neglected genre offerings , is priceless ! ) ; in fact , I wish he'd done a full-length Audio Commentary for the film , as I really could have listened to him talk all day ! !
THE TOWN THAT DREADED SUNDOWN ( Charles B . Pierce , 1976 )	This is another one of those cases ? like the recently-viewed DR . RENAULT'S SECRET ( 1942 ) and ALICE SWEET ALICE ( 1976 ) ? where I've been vaguely aware of a film but only became truly cognizant of its value after watching it . Frankly , the killer title makes one think that a vampire movie is in store but what we get here instead is an admirable , semi-documentary rendition of a true-life outbreak of serial killing in post-war Texarkana , Arkansas ? complete with solemn narration , re-enactments preceded by dates and a ' where are they now ' epilogue . Having said that , the dramatic storyline ( capped by a terrific if necessarily downbeat climax ) is punctuated both by a chilling depiction of the crimes themselves ? perpetrated by a potentially impotent sadist / cannibal , dubbed " The Phantom Killer " , whose facial features are forever masked by a creepy KKK-like hood ? and , surprisingly enough , by the clumsy antics of an ill-tempered police official ( amusingly essayed by the film's own producer-director Charles B . Pierce ? whose only other intriguing credits are 1972's similarly documentary-style THE LEGEND OF BOGGY CREEK and the 1978 Lee Majors-Cornel Wilde Viking opus , THE NORSEMAN ) . While these largely comic interludes may seem on paper to jar with the film's generally somber tone , one only needs to compare those particular scenes here with the equally irreverent ones found in Wes Craven's THE LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT ( 1972 ) to see how grating they can be when done badly ? as opposed to providing a welcome respite from the unbearably tense atmosphere as they do in this case ! Furthermore , the main reason that such scenes succeed so well is because out-of-town and near-legendary Sheriff Ben Johnson ( whose casting is inspired ) is usually on the receiving end of incompetent Pierce's overzealous actions ( not least when he manages to lose the lead in a car chase and lands the police vehicle head first into a stream ) . On the other hand , the fact that almost everybody else in the cast is an unknown aids in the film's ultimate striving for realism ? making eventual comparisons with contemporaneous ' slasher ' movies quite pointless ( although the use of a slide trombone-cum-bayonet as a murder weapon is a bizarrely inventive touch certainly worthy of the more outrageous entries in that subgenre ) .
SUNDAYS AND CYBELE ( Serge Bourguignon , 1962 )	In my view , the reason why this Foreign Language Oscar-winning film is mostly forgotten today is not because it is , as the late British critic Leslie Halliwell opined as early as 1977 , " a fashionable film of its time which now has little to offer " but because its director is , unenviably , the veritable cinematic embodiment of a ' one hit wonder ' . Unsurprisingly , the accolades which accompanied SUNDAYS AND CYBELE opened for its undeniably talented director Serge Bourguignon the doors of Hollywood but , perhaps just as predictably , his work there never amounted to much and , sadly , 7 years and 3 films later , he dropped completely out of sight and mind . For the record , I did get to see his first Hollywood foray THE REWARD ( 1965 ; with Max von Sydow and Gilbert Roland ) which , indeed , promised much but delivered very little and , for what it's worth , his next 2 ventures ? TWO WEEKS IN September ( 1967 ; with Brigitte Bardot and Laurent Terzieff ) and THE PICASSO SUMMER ( 1969 ; with Albert Finney and Yvette Mimieux ) ? while also seemingly interesting are , by all accounts , respectively bland and boring ! Anyway , the strikingly-directed SUNDAYS AND CYBELE deservedly beat notable competitors like Michael Cacoyannis ' ELEKTRA and Nanni Loy's THE FOUR DAYS OF NAPLES ( both of which I also own but , so far , am only familiar with the former ) at the Oscars , with its moving and , ultimately , tragic story of a misunderstood friendship between an amnesiac 30-year old fighter pilot ( Hardy Kruger ) and an abandoned , precocious 12-year old schoolgirl ( Patricia Gozzi ) ; Maurice Jarre's score was also , rather unaccountably , nominated for an Oscar ? in view of the fact that it makes copious use of classical pieces and Gregorian chants . Over the film's opening credits , Kruger is shown mowing down a child during an air raid ? a traumatic event which left him so guilt-ridden that the vile abandonment of the little girl by her father at a railway station is unbearable to him ? to the extent that he impulsively takes to impersonating him every Sunday , picking her up at her convent school and going on afternoon outings in the woods . Meanwhile , Kruger is being cared for and lives with his nurse ( Nicole Courcel ) and has bonded with a friendly sculptor ( Daniel Ivernel ) who , while appreciating the soothing effect the meetings with Gozzi are having on Kruger , also fear that his violent mood swings may eventually endanger the girl . Events come to a head during an enforced wedding party and the subsequent visit to a fairground and , especially , the fatal intervention of the nurse's jealous colleague who brings in the Police when Kruger goes missing on Christmas Eve . As I intimated earlier , the potential sentimentality of the story is kept admirably at bay by the ultra-stylish handling and excellent performances all round ; conversely , the main flaws of the film , are a rather deliberate pace and a slightly misjudged ending : while I found the choice to have Kruger's demise occur offscreen effective , I think it would have been even more so had Kruger fallen to his death while trying to steal the all-important ( to Gozzi ) weathercock off the church steeple rather than being shot dead by the Police for approaching Gozzi with a knife clasped in his hand ! The print I saw was a serviceable but very battered one ( extremely soft , with a virtually inexistent blackscale and the hard-coded white subtitles occasionally unreadable when appearing against the snowy landscape ) ? which again points to the unfortunate neglect this film has been subjected to over the years .
Monitor : Elgar ? Portrait Of A Composer ( TV ) ( Ken Russell , 1962 )	While considered something of a breakthrough in British TV , coming early in the director's career , he wasn't allowed to use actors in his film on composer Sir Edward Elgar other than in long shot or have them speak ! Despite this fact ( and noting also that none of Russell's subsequent trademark excesses are to be found here ) , I was surprisingly engrossed in it regardless . Incidentally , in the accompanying audio commentary , it's revealed that some of the episodes depicted ( or mentioned in the almost-constant narration ) had no real basis in fact ? with the director readily admitting that he had to fabricate much of it simply because there just wasn't that much known about Elgar at the time to begin with ! Russell makes good use of stock footage , ably juxtaposing military / royal parade with the horrors of war ( Elgar lived through both the Boer conflict and the First World War ) . Besides , he doesn't beat around the bush and repeatedly states that Elgar's talent was all but appreciated in his homeland and that the composer himself would eventually come to somewhat begrudge the fact that his best-known piece was the stirring yet ultra-jingoistic " Land Of Hope And Glory " ( so popular that it was virtually held as a second national anthem for Great Britain while , as Russell explains in the commentary , this music is played at the graduation ceremony of every school in America ) ! When all is said and done , however , the film is at its most effective during the lyrical passages in the countryside .
HOUSE OF BAMBOO ( Samuel Fuller , 1955 )	This film ( which I had previously watched several years back on Italian TV but that viewing suffered from very poor reception at times ) is a remake of THE STREET WITH NO NAME ( 1948 ) – which , interestingly , comes from the same scriptwriter ( Harry Kleiner ) , cinematographer ( Joe MacDonald , now adopting color and Cinemascope ) and production designer ( Lyle R . Wheeler , though the setting has been relocated from the U . S . to Japan ) ! The earlier plot line is followed very closely but , apart from this exotic change in locale , there are a couple of other effective differences : whereas in the original the gangster was involved with a woman , here it’s the hero ( which actually heightens the danger prevalent in the undercover operation ) ; incidentally , this time around we only learn his real identity half-way through – while the fact that she is Japanese adds an unexpected but sensitively-handled element of miscegenation . The gangster is essayed by a typically impressive Robert Ryan ( memorably introduced as the hero is almost literally shoved into his lap , his portrayal here is remarkably restrained but grows in intensity as the film progresses ) , Robert Stack , the hero , is well cast as an army investigator ( rather than an F . B . I . agent ) and the woman by an excellent Shirley Yamaguchi ; even so , the gangster’s moll character played by Barbara Lawrence in the 1948 film is present here in the figure of Cameron Mitchell , the outfit’s second-in-command ( suggesting homosexuality – the latter even throws a fit when his role is usurped by new recruit Stack – and , therefore , marking yet another novel / mature aspect in HOUSE OF BAMBOO ; incidentally , Mitchell’s demise is one of the film’s highlights ) ! The role of the hero’s associates – in this case , an amalgam of U . S . and Japanese personnel , embodied by Brad Dexter and Sessue Hayakawa – is much reduced here , while the presence of a second undercover agent ( played in the original by John McIntire ) is omitted entirely ; by the way , in the cast is also Maltese actor Sandro Giglio but , not being overly familiar with his physical features , I didn’t recognize him . Given director Fuller’s involvement , brutality is even more to the fore in this version – while the exciting climax takes place on a larger scale than before i . e . inside an amusement park ; the Widescreen format allows for controlled but striking compositions throughout , particularly during the action sequences ( which include a couple of raids by the gang ) . In the end , the two films are pretty much on a par : the first may have a more genuine noir feel to it perhaps but , at the same time , it lacks the individualistic touch afforded the remake by Fuller’s hand ( who collaborated personally on the script , as was his custom ) – a more stylish but dispassionate approach which keeps close-ups to the barest minimum . It’s worth mentioning here that another valid contribution to the film’s overall value comes courtesy of Leigh Harline’s fine music score . P . S . Just as I’ll probably get to William Keighley’s BULLETS OR BALLOTS ( 1936 ) earlier than expected in view of THE STREET WITH NO NAME , I’ll be giving a spin to a couple of unwatched Fullers as well – namely THE STEEL HELMET ( 1951 ) and RUN OF THE ARROW ( 1957 ) – thanks to this one ; besides , I guess I should make some time for a viewing of THE YAKUZA ( 1975 ) too , being another Oriental noir I’ve long wanted to check out . . .
THE WITCH'S MIRROR ( Chano Urueta , 1960 )	This is another Mexican horror classic being given a new lease of life via Casanegra's superb SE DVD . The plot is a mishmash of various well-proved elements ( with even a nod to Poe ) - a young wife is forced to live in the shadow of her husband's former bride ( largely through the machinations of the latter's devoted housekeeper ) as in REBECCA ( 1940 ) ; when the wife is horribly scarred in a fire , her doctor husband resorts to body snatching for skin graft experiments as in EYES WITHOUT A FACE ( 1959 ) ; the hands he gives her ( unbeknownst to him , they belong to the revenge-seeking first wife he poisoned ! ) take on a life of their own as in MAD LOVE ( 1935 ) , etc . - but which works reasonably well in the context of its essential " witchcraft vs . mad science " theme ( to quote the DVD sleeve notes ) . The first half is a bit slow , but the cheaply-realized yet often poetic visuals - borrowed from Cocteau and Dreyer ! - keep one riveted ; the latter stages are more frenetic , with several of the characters resorting to histrionics and a fair splattering of gore ( leading up to a particularly busy and highly satisfying climax ) . The acting from all the major players is above-average for this type of film but , best of all perhaps , is Isabela Corona as the outwardly reserved but sinister and powerful witch ; the two younger women also make an impression - Dina De Marco as the murdered wife who keeps turning up as a ghost to haunt her husband and her rival ; Rosita Arenas as the innocent young bride who becomes the unfortunate victim in both the doctor and the witch's scheme of things ( particularly effective when essaying the pathetic qualities of the bandaged-up , desperate and lonesome woman ) . As was the case with THE BLACK PIT OF DR . M ( 1958 ) , the Gothic / supernatural atmosphere deployed with the barest of resources through camera-work , lighting , sets and props is truly incredible . . . though the special effects ( which get quite a heavy workout here ) , ultimately , leave a lot to be desired ! I've purposely refrained from describing individual sequences ( as I often tend to do ) so as not to deny first-time viewers - as I was myself - the pleasure of discovering its considerable felicities on their own ! The supplements are similar to those of BLACK PIT : the Audio Commentary ( by the same Frank Coleman ) is just as interesting , but he seems to be enjoying himself a good deal here as he approaches the film with tongue-in-cheek - while retaining a justified reverence for his subject . One disappointing aspect of these DVD editions , however , is that the English-dubbed version of the films aren't included as they were released back in the day ( for instance , in the Commentary it's mentioned that the narrated prologue accompanied by sketches in the Mexican original was dropped for the export version - but the DVD includes it , presumably with the ' new ' lines recently looped in ! ) .
ABSENCE OF MALICE ( Sydney Pollack , 1981 )	To begin with , I had intended to include this in my tribute to director Pollack in June but somehow couldn’t trace the VHS I had it taped on ; in the meantime , I acquired the film on DVD and , watched now as a valediction to recently-deceased star Paul Newman , it easily emerged as the most significant title of the lot . The picture itself had given new impetus to his career – though it would be overshadowed by his next effort , THE VERDICT ( 1982 ) – which had dwindled since the block-busting box-office performances of both THE STING ( 1973 ) and THE TOWERING INFERNO ( 1974 ) . An absorbing and uniformly well-acted blend of newspaper movie , political thriller , character study and romance ( with the latter being the least successful i . e . most disposable and unconvincing element ) , the film deservedly earned Oscar nominations for Newman ( his sixth – playing a longshoreman who starts being investigated about the murder of a rival simply because of his parental link to mobsters and the damage it causes to his integrity and daily existence ) , Melinda Dillon ( as a friend of Newman’s who’s brought in to supply an alibi for him but which would expose the guilt in her own personal matters and which lead her to commit suicide ! ) and Kurt Luedtke’s fine , incisive script . Sally Field isn’t an actress I’m particularly fond of ( for the record , I’ve watched neither of her two Oscar-winning performances in NORMA RAE [ 1979 ] and PLACES IN THE HEART [ 1984 ] : their directors , Martin Ritt and Robert Benton respectively , would coincidentally prove crucial to Newman himself ! ) , though she’s perfectly cast here in a role encompassing resourcefulness , tenacity , awkwardness , tenderness and , finally , humility . She’s the star reporter who initially ‘leaks’ the news of the investigation on Newman thinking it as her duty , but doesn’t stop to ponder the consequences . . . as a result of which , her relationship with Newman proves a troubled one ( in the film’s most intense sequence , he physically assaults her when she turns up before him after Dillon’s death ! ) . The title is a reference to a legal clause which basically states that newspapers are free to print anything they like , and that the people involved can do nothing against them because their reporting is accurate ( even if it may not ultimately prove to be factual ) . The film’s climax – which plays like a dry-run for THE VERDICT itself and is highlighted by a scene-stealing turn from Wilford Brimley , it’s revealed how Newman has cleverly rebounded the affair on itself ( so that it’s the reporters , the investigating committee and the D . A’s office who get their gooses cooked , as it were ! ) . A nice surprise is Luther Adler’s appearance as Newman’s mobster uncle – and also worth mentioning is Dave Grusin’s fine score .
La Vie De Château ( 1965 )	Another delightful French pastiche , this time set around the time of the D-Day landings in Normandy ; a fine cast headed by Catherine Deneuve , Pierre Brasseur and Philippe Noiret lend themselves admirably to the spirit of the thing . LA VIE DE Château takes in everything from the issues of class difference ( farm girl Deneuve is married to wealthy good-for-nothing Noiret ) , collaboration ( Noiret's family flaunts its supposed Nazi sympathies for their own material gain while secretly despising their oppressors ) and heroism ( it's Noiret who ultimately emerges as the unexpected - and perhaps unwilling - hero , eventually winning back the straying affections of his wife ) . Director Rappeneau recently returned to the same stylistic territory and historical background with equally terrific results for his BON VOYAGE ( 2003 ) .
BEASTS ? Episode 5 : WHAT BIG EYES ( TV ) ( Donald McWhinnie , 1976 )	This one's easily the best " Beasts " episode : the plot ? involving lycanthropy , and putting forth yet another of Nigel Kneale's controversial theories of evolution ? is most intriguing ; the whole , then , is transfixed by an unforgettable performance from a typically intense Patrick Magee . He plays an eccentric and reclusive old scientist ( with long scruffy hair and a high-handed attitude to match ) who believes that humans evolved from wolves and has been attempting to restore the link in his private laboratory ( situated above a pet shop owned by his long-suffering middle-aged daughter , whom he actively resents ) . His activities arouse the suspicions of a dogged young R . S . P . C . A . man ? the latter's initial worries simply concern the safety of the wolves , but he soon realizes that he's bitten off more than he can chew . Magee himself doesn't shy away from expounding on his particular line of work ? deliriously ' corroborating ' his arguments by frequent references to the Little Red Riding Hood folk-tale ( from where the title of the episode itself emanates , incidentally ) and in which he states that Grandma wasn't gobbled up as we'd been led to believe but rather she was a werewolf to begin with ! Eventually , Magee succumbs to " acute blood poisoning " ( naturally , he was his own guinea pig ) during a critical point in his experiments ? his last act , compounded by howls in reply to the caged animal's own calls , takes the form of an impromptu speech to an imaginary gathering of fellow ( and previously disapproving ) colleagues ; incidentally , the man from the R . S . P . C . A . is forced to " put down " the wolf , having been injected with the serum as well . The woman's liberating reaction to her father's death results in the decimation of both the shop and the lab ? in fact , everything that reminds her of Magee ; about to vent her anger on the scientist's shrouded corpse itself , we then get a subliminal facial metamorphosis ?
CONTROL ( Anton Corbijn , 2007 )	The haunting music of Joy Division transcended the band's minimal output and modest cult status among British indie bands to become a highly influential sound . Shot in color but desaturized to be shown in black-and - white , CONTROL is a carefully-made biopic of their troubled singer Ian Curtis who , at just 23 years of age , tragically took his own life to become rock's first celebrity suicide . Although I had thought that this fateful decision was taken mainly on account of his debilitating epileptic condition , the film reveals that this had more to do with the fact that Curtis , being clearly unwilling to embark on Joy Division's impending first U . S . tour , had lost control of the band he fronted for ( hence the title ) and , more importantly , was deeply conflicted about the two relationships he had going on at the same time ? with his wife Deborah back home ( who had also borne him a daughter ) and a Belgian amateur journalist / groupie that followed him around when performing . Based on Mrs . Curtis ' memoirs , the film by necessity concentrates more on his personal than creative life ; besides , director Corbijn , a former music video helmer , knew the band members personally and creates a remarkably straightforward and affectionate portrayal of Curtis ' life and times . Apart from Samantha Morton ( as Deborah ) , the cast is virtually made up of unknowns : at first , Sam Riley did not seem to me to look much like the real Ian Curtis but , before long , he had effectively inhabited the character ( down to his awkward moves during Joy Division's stage act ) ; the lovely Alexandra Maria Lara ( whom I had actually already watched in DOWNFALL [ 2004 ] and YOUTH WITHOUT YOUTH [ 2007 ] as Curtis ' Belgian girlfriend , Annik Honore ' ) and Toby Kebbell ( as the band's overzealous manager Rob Gretton ) also score in the acting stakes . Furthermore , the extraneous music is well-chosen : apart from the well-documented fact of Curtis having watched Werner Herzog's STROSZEK ( 1977 ) and listened to Iggy Pop's " The Idiot " ( 1977 ) just before hanging himself , we also have The Velvet Underground ( another band whose musical legacy ran a similar course to Joy Division's ) , David Bowie ( ironically , Curtis is seen listening to the chameleon artist's own crossover album " Aladdin Sane " [ 1973 ] , written during his first U . S . tour ! ) , Roxy Music and The Sex Pistols .
AGAINST ALL FLAGS ( George Sherman , 1952 )	By 1945 , and after a string of solid WWII propaganda pieces , Errol Flynn’s hold over U . S . box office had started to decline so , in spite of the increased burden of waning looks , he embarked on a series of films pertaining to that genre which had earlier made his name : the swashbuckler . The first of these was a good one actually – ADVENTURES OF DON JUAN ( 1948 ) – but it also proved to be his last big-budget Hollywood starring vehicle . The rest of his sword-wielding days were spent wandering all over Europe : in England for KIM ( 1950 ) , THE MASTER OF BALLANTRAE ( 1953 ) and THE DARK AVENGER ( 1955 ) , in France for ADVENTURES OF CAPTAIN FABIAN ( 1951 ) and Italy for the aborted THE STORY OF WILLIAM TELL ( 1953 ) and the little-seen CROSSED SWORDS ( 1954 ) . However , Hollywood did beckon him one last time to his old seafaring ways – albeit for a modestly-budgeted Universal picture rather than a Warner Brothers ‘A’ production to which he had been accustomed when at his peak . . . Still , the glorious Technicolor cinematography leaps off the screen here and , while an older and flabbier Flynn may look like the pale shadow of his former self , his red-headed leading lady Maureen O’Hara has a field day as a tomboyish buccaneer leader who deep down craves romance and wants to be treated like a lady . Anthony Quinn was still a few years away from his larger-than-life starring vehicles , so here he is typically seen as the baddie – the pirate captain Roc Brasiliano , a role he attacks with gusto . Like THE BLACK SHIELD OF FALWORTH ( 1954 ) – a viewing of which preceded this one – AGAINST ALL FLAGS takes me back to my cherished childhood days of constant TV viewing when vintage Hollywood movies were the order of the day on both the local and neighboring Italian channels . For all I know , this might well have been the very first pirate movie I’ve ever seen and I cringe at the thought of today’s generation of youngsters supposedly believing that the grossly overblown PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN trilogy is what buccaneering is all about ! As I said earlier , AGAINST ALL FLAGS might not be the finest pirate yarn ever brought to the screen but it’s a solid example of this prolific genre all the same . Nowadays , the amorous persistence of the child-like Indian princess ( Alice Kelley ) towards her pirate captor Flynn may strike one as being awfully silly but the rest of it – despite clearly not scaling the heights of THE SEA HAWK ( 1940 ) and THE BLACK SWAN ( 1942 ) , to mention the finest seafaring ventures of its respective stars – is briskly paced and reasonably engaging . Incidentally , the film would later go on to be remade as THE KING’S PIRATE ( 1967 ) with Doug McClure ! For what it’s worth , the unprecedented box office success of that unappetizing modern franchise is most probably what induced reluctant movie studios to dust off their catalogue swashbuckling titles and release them on DVD and , as a matter of fact , AGAINST ALL FLAGS itself was the one gem in a poorly-thought out " Pirates Of The Golden Age Movie Collection " set from Universal which also consisted of obscure dross like BUCCANEER’S GIRL ( 1950 ; with Yvonne De Carlo ) , DOULE CROSSBONES ( 1951 ; with Donald O’Connor ) and YANKEE BUCCANEER ( 1952 ; with Jeff Chandler ) ! Value for money , perhaps but , so far , I have only acquired the Errol Flynn flick from other sources ; even so , if the mood strikes me in future , I might wish to lay my hands on similar marine adventures like Edward Dmytyk’s MUTINY ( 1952 ) , the afore-mentioned YANKEE BUCCANEER and PIRATES OF TORTUGA ( 1961 ) .
EXPERIMENT IN TERROR ( Blake Edwards , 1962 )	This was a thriller I had been longing to watch for some time , having missed its sole TV showing several years ago . The fact that director Edwards does not typically dabble in the genre ( albeit having learned his lesson from the masters extremely well ) should excuse its occasional pretentiousness - most evident in the long two-shot at the beginning of Lee Remick's first encounter with Ross Martin and the similarly extended ( and basically irrelevant ) sequence in the mannequin lady's apartment prior to her murder . The film's deliberate pace and methodical approach creates a riveting and unrelenting tension and the various subplots ( focusing on Stefanie Powers as Remick's younger , liberated sister ; Ned Glass as a sleazy police informer ; the aforementioned and possibly nymphomaniac ' mannequin lady ' ; and Martin's Japanese ' family ' ) , while making it longer than is perhaps necessary , are so well nurtured that they give the film an extra edge - thus further enhancing its essential quality . Acting is top-notch : Glenn Ford is one of Hollywood's most likable , reliable and underrated leading man ; Remick and Martin ( a memorable and complex heavy , who also gets to do his menacing act in drag ! ) are perfect as victim and aggressor . Also , the film's pervasive noir-ish atmosphere ( propelled by Henry Mancini's unusual score and superbly caught by Edwards and cinematographer Philip Lathrop ) is indication that the genre wasn't quite done yet ; indeed , EXPERIMENT IN TERROR can be seen as marking perhaps the transition point between old-style noir and the so-called neo-noirs spearheaded by POINT BLANK ( 1967 ) . Since I work as a bank teller myself , I'm always fascinated by caper films and , in this case , I couldn't help but empathize with Remick's plight ; however , I found some aspects of the plot unconvincing : the bank manager's refusal to put up the ransom money , the fact that Remick was kept active on front-office duty during this nerve-racking period , Remick cramming $100 , 000 in two bundles into her little purse and , finally , the supervisor not noticing the missing cash from Remick's own till at the end of the day . . .
American POP ( Ralph Bakshi , 1981 )	The narrative of this Bakshi animated film follows the showbiz aspirations of a Jewish émigré family through four generations ( from turn-of-the-century to the present , i . e . early 1980s ) , taking in the various turbulent world events and reflecting the often radical changes in culture which occurred during all this time . An ambitious if heavy-handed undertaking ( Bakshi's trademark realism , displayed through rotoscoped animation , occasionally interspersed with stock footage ) which is patchy overall but frequently impressive - and undeniably evocative . The necessarily eclectic soundtrack , too , is a major asset even if the last half does lean too heavily on the the hippie / rock scene ; it's also amusing how the script presents the band which the protagonist eventually forms part of as the talent behind many of the best-known rock songs from the era by the likes of Big Brother And The Holding Company , Jefferson Airplane , The Jimi Hendrix Experience , The Sex Pistols and even my own favorite , The Velvet Underground ! !
TEPEPA { Full-Length Version } ( Giulio Petroni , 1968 )	Perhaps the Spaghetti Western genre's last word on the Mexican Revolution ( around which so many fine examples are centred ) - barring , of course , Leone's marvelous DUCK , YOU SUCKER ( 1971 ) - from one of Italian cinema's foremost political writers , Franco Solinas . Tomas Milian is at his best here ( with which he appears to concur himself , as per quotes found in the actor's biography included on the DVD ! ) ; his ambiguous character is mainly revealed through the film's intermittent flashback structure ( borrowed from Sergio Leone ) . Like Petroni's own DEATH RIDES A HORSE ( 1968 ) , the film sees the title character being constantly ' shadowed ' by someone for unspecified reasons and , like Sergio Sollima's FACE TO FACE ( 1967 ) , we are presented with a clash of two personalities ( and two worlds ) - in this case , larger-than-life Mexican revolutionary Milian and quietly-spoken British doctor John Steiner - that could turn violent at any moment . . . although the confrontation between Milian and an influential Army Colonel - surprisingly underplayed by Orson Welles ( but , then , his presence can only add to the film's stature ) - is , at least , as important and central to the plot ; indeed , their long-awaited showdown is quite splendid ( even if the plot still has a couple more twists up its sleeve ! ) . Needless to say , Ennio Morricone's stirring and unforgettable score is one of the film's trump cards ( and , in fact , the SE from Italy's Alan Young Pictures I own includes the soundtrack - running approx . 26 minutes - on a second disc ! ) and includes a beautiful ballad sung by Christy ( which , alas , is only heard in its complete form on the CD ! ) ; another crucial asset , of course , is the film's beautiful Techniscope photography . Even so , powerful and moving though it is , the film ends up being tiresomely long if wholly engrossing : the print on offer here is vaunted as being the complete 136-minute version which has been virtually unseen since the film's original release ; actually , it only lasts for 127 minutes in PAL mode , which would bring it to about 133 minutes in full . . . but , then , a deleted scene has been included as an extra on the DVD ( albeit without sound , though accompanied by the director's comments : the dialogue couldn't even be re-recorded for completeness ' sake because Petroni himself has no idea what is being said and admitted that , once a film is finished , he throws away the script ! ) and that's 3 minutes in length , which would account for that discrepancy ! As a matter of fact , when I first watched the film ( recorded off late-night Italian TV ) , it ran for a mere 97 minutes . . . though , since it's been a while , I can't discern any of the new footage - Petroni does remark , however , that the cuts effected Morricone's compositions quite severely ; as for myself , I recall being underwhelmed by that preliminary experience ! Among the extensive bonus features are offered a number of mostly complimentary reviews from the time of its original release and publicity shots with the stars and director , where the film was still being advertised under its working title of VIVA LA REVOLUCION ! The Audio Commentary , however , turns out to be a disappointment : advertised as being full-length , it only runs for 73 minutes ( jumping to relevant scenes but , even then , there are a few gaps which sometimes run for several minutes at a stretch ! ) ; still , even if Petroni seems to be hazy about many details , his comments - urged by a moderator - make for an interesting listen nonetheless . Apparently , Solinas clashed with the director over the ending ( which he didn't write and consequently hated ) with the face of the deceased Tepepa superimposed on a shot of the revolutionaries riding off into the sunset ( led by the young kid who plays an important part in the film , particularly in relation to the John Steiner character and who utters the great final line ; weirdly enough , the child actor himself grew up to be a mafioso ! ) . Ironically , too , Welles ' involvement seems to have worked against the film because , like one of his own projects , it's been butchered and released over the years in various forms ! This has resulted in TEPEPA being largely neglected in discussions of the more significant Spaghetti Westerns ; with this ' new ' version , where its essential quality is more than evident , it's definitely ripe for reappraisal . . .
PLANET OF THE VAMPIRES ( Mario Bava , 1965 ) Italian Version : ; U . S . Version :	I had long wanted to watch this solitary foray into sci-fi territory by the great Bava : however , even if the film was released on R1 DVD ( now OOP ) and I had actually owned a copy of the slightly different English-language version ( in Pan-and-Scan ! ) on DivX for some time , I'm glad I waited to catch it for the first time via the Italian original ; just for the sake of comparison , my viewing of the R2 DVD was followed with that of the DivX ? and , for all kinds of reasons , the former blows the latter out of the water ! Anyway , the film itself is a minor classic of the genre though not without its faults : admittedly , the Italian brand of sci-fi cinema hasn't been exactly prolific or impressive ? still , Bava's effort is miles ahead of the ones that I've watched so far . To begin with , something about the English title : the aliens / monsters here are actually more zombies than vampires ( the fact that one never knows who can be trusted also links it with both INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS [ 1956 ] and THE LAST MAN ON EARTH [ 1964 ] ) ; hence , the original title ? TERRORE NELLO SPAZIO , i . e . TERROR IN SPACE ? is preferable , not only because it's more literary but it also lends mystery to the proceedings ( as the threat inherent in the plot line isn't categorized from the get-go ) . Curiously , Ib Melchior is credited as co-screenwriter on both the Italian and English versions ; early on , there's an overuse of nonsensical technical jargon ( which , in hindsight , takes away some of the surprise element from the ending ! ) , but this is thankfully downplayed in the film's latter stages . Of course , this being Bava , the look of the film ? actually similar to FORBIDDEN PLANET ( 1956 ) , it may well have inspired ALIEN ( 1979 ; with which it also shares much of the main theme ) ? is essential , and quite remarkable when considering the low-budget the director had at his disposal : the sets ? economical but undeniably stylish ? are very interesting , as are the various props on display ( that giant skeleton from an earlier civilization discovered on the planet is awesome ) ; while obviously modest , the visual / make-up effects are handled with great care and creativity ; the camera-work features an odd choice of angles mingled with Bava's typical zooms ; the pacing is generally terse but every opportunity to create mood and generate suspense is milked for all it's worth ; ultimately , the film's color scheme is so rich that one is almost tempted to turn off the audio and just allow himself to be immersed in the visuals ! Veteran Barry Sullivan makes for an imposing lead and Norma Bengell is his attractive co-star . Among the more notable sequences are the attack on Sullivan by his ' possessed ' crew ? very effective because it is unexpected ? and also the famous slo-mo rise of the shrouded monsters from their foggy graves . However , we also get a slightly confusing climax ( where the various characters become interchangeable due to their identical space-suits , especially when pursuing one another among the rocks ) ? but this is more than made up for by the double-twist at the end ( the first inspired , once again , by BODY SNATCHERS and the other deliciously chilling ) . As for the differences between the two versions of the film : the English-language edit has new and bland opening / closing shots , while some dialogue is either different or missing entirely ; worst of all here is Kendall Schmidt's horrid electronic score ( which , reportedly , had been added to the film by Orion and wasn't ported onto the R1 DVD ) ; on the other hand , the Italian print contains some minor extended bits ? but it's superior chiefly because of the more natural-sounding dubbing job . The only major complaint I have regarding the R2 DVD is that the audio is rather low ; the supplements are pretty minimal as well ( am I wrong in assuming that this won't be forthcoming as part of the Mario Bava series of R1 DVDs from Anchor Bay ? ) but , thankfully , the video has been recently remastered in anticipation of its screening during the Italian B-movie retrospective at the 2005 Venice Film Festival ( I had attended a similar and more extensive one the previous year , where I watched quite a few Euro-Cult gems ? but , alas , no Bava ! ) .
THUNDERBALL ( Terence Young , 1965 )	To begin with , I hadn't watched this one in probably 15 years or thereabouts and , so far , I only own the first seven entries in the popular James Bond series on DVD : somehow , I hadn't gone through it or the YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE ( 1967 ) edition back when I first purchased them , so I took the opportunity to do so now on the heels of the newest and , sadly , disappointing 007 adventure ? QUORUM OF SULLENNESS ? er ? QUANTUM OF SOLACE ( 2008 ) . It's still considered the most commercially successful outing in the franchise ( the one where Bondmania reached its zenith ) ? and , while perhaps not among the very best of the lot ( for reasons I'll get to later ) , it's highly representative of the phenomenally popular series . Sean Connery's somewhere near peak form here , the obligatory Bond girls ( chief among them Claudine Auger and Luciana Paluzzi ) gorgeous ? like Olga Kurylenko from QUANTUM , the former's character is given an extra edge by making the girl ultimately decide to aid Bond in order to exact revenge on her own jealous yet cold-blooded ' guardian ' ? and the villain ( Adolfo Celi ) appropriately imposing as well as sinister ( sporting an eye-patch and keeping sharks in his private pool ! ) ; incidentally , it was nice to see again Celi and Paluzzi playing their signature roles after encountering the two Italians in so much native product over the years . While the narrative itself meanders somewhat throughout the hefty 130-minute duration ( requiring extensive underwater footage ) , the plot involving SPECTRE's appropriation of atom bombs for extortion purposes is both topical ( in view of the recent Cuban missile crisis and the ongoing Cold War ) and suspenseful . The action ? injected by the now-trademark witty repartee ( including an in-joke regarding a pre-stardom Connery film , ANOTHER TIME , ANOTHER PLACE [ 1958 ] ) and sexual innuendoes ( never more blatant , perhaps , than in the rack-gone-wild incident ) , which have unaccountably and regrettably gone missing from the latest incarnation of the super-agent ? is big and brutal ; for anyone who claims Daniel Craig's ruthless persona was a departure for the series , one need only take another look at Connery's seminal and iconic tenure in the role ( especially the pre-credits fist-fight with a ' widow ' ) ! As always , Bernard Lee's belligerent " M " and Lois Maxwell's bemused Miss Moneypenny make an appearance ? though the role of C . I . A . operative Felix Leiter is rather anonymously filled by Rik Van Nutter ? as , of course , do Desmond Llewellyn's gadgets : that said , the most memorable of these ( the flying kit ) is actually relegated to the prologue ! Ditto , for the lush / exotic backdrops : here , we don't just have the usual resort to casinoes , beaches and boats but a colorful Mardi Gras event and , as I implied earlier , a full-blown and superbly-staged underwater death match between heroes and villains ( the film-makers ' peerless prowess in this department was subsequently rewarded with a Best Visual Effects Oscar ) . Incidentally , along with " Casino Royale " , this is the one Ian Fleming novel which was owned by other hands ( or , in its case , jointly ) until some time ago : the former was filmed no less than three times , while THUNDERBALL itself ( overseen by co-story author Kevin McClory , with regular producers Harry Saltzman and Albert R . " Cubby " Broccoli maintaining a merely executive position ) eventually resurfaced as the jokily-titled NEVER SAY NEVER AGAIN ( 1983 ) ? for which Connery , who had abdicated the role ' for good ' 12 years earlier , would be persuaded to make a ' series ' comeback !
IT CAME FROM BENEATH THE SEA ( Robert Gordon , 1955 )	This film marked the beginning of the Charles H . Schneer / Ray Harryhausen collaboration on various fantasy films which lasted till the early 1980s . It’s a typical sci-fi effort of the period : a usually harmless creature , rendered huge and deadly via radiation , is unleashed upon a large American city ( though , being an octopus , its fury is restricted to the bay area ) – and the U . S . Navy teams up with a couple of renowned biologists to battle the monster . Fast-moving , fairly gripping and featuring solid characterizations – even going so far as to include a mildly risqué ménage-a'-trois situation involving the protagonists ! – the film generally delivers the goods as the unassuming but professionally-made entertainment it was meant to be . It stars Kenneth Tobey from THE THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD ( 1951 ) as the Atomic Submarine Commander who first realizes that something’s wrong ‘down below’ , and Faith Domergue from THIS ISLAND EARTH ( 1955 ) as the female member of the biological team . Basically , they’re duplicating their roles from the earlier films I mentioned – except that Domergue emerges here to be sexy as well as brainy ( rather than staid as she was in THIS ISLAND EARTH ) , especially in a scene where she cajoles a frightened seaman into recounting his near-fatal brush with the giant squid . Considering that the creature’s appearance is usually relegated to the flash of one of its tentacles ( occasionally done in close-up for maximum impact ) , Harryhausen’s effects aren’t quite as spectacular ( or extensive ) as in his later colorful mythological adventures . That said , the monster’s seen pulling a ship down to the bottom , causes considerable mayhem at the Golden Gate bridge , and is even given one scary effect when its eye suddenly opens underwater just as Tobey and his ‘rival’ ( Domergue’s colleague / lover ) dive for a closer inspection . I had been toying with the idea of picking up Columbia’s " Ray Harryhausen Collection " DVDs for ages – somehow , I managed to get hold of all of them except for MYSTERIOUS ISLAND ( 1961 ; which should be rectified soon as I happened upon it at a DVD rental store ! ) . This viewing of IT CAME FROM BENEATH THE SEA ( 1955 ) – which came by way of a DivX copy , thus bearing the format’s usual trait of wobbly video quality ( but , in this case , also muffled audio ! ) – will be followed by TWENTY MILLION MILES TO EARTH ( 1957 ; just recently announced for a 2-Disc " Special Edition " re-issue ! ) and FIRST MEN IN THE MOON ( 1964 ) . . .
THE NAKED ISLAND ( Kaneto Shindo , 1960 )	I knew going in that this celebrated Shindo film would have no dialogue and that , basically , it would be a lyrical , quasi-documentary ode to the power and beauty of nature ? but , to me , it felt more like a celebration of drudgery instead , as I would have expected a little more drama to sustain its 1 ½ - hour length ! As it stands , probably more than half its running-time consists of the woman crossing back and forth to the mainland by boat in order to provide irrigation water for their crops ; actually , the film was criticized at the time by fellow Japanese film-makers ? particularly Nagisa Oshima ? because Shindo opted to adhere to the general view held by foreigners of the Japanese people as stereotypically quaint and passive ! Besides , the concept of making it almost completely silent ( apart from sound effects , the singing of school-children , and the musical score that is present virtually all the way through ) is an artificial one to begin with : at the very least , one would have appreciated some sort of narration to fill us in on what the characters might be thinking at any particular moment , considering how they do not even feel the need to make conversation . In fact , the only emotion that ever seeps through their stoic façade to break the unmitigated monotony of their simple , humble lifestyle is : a ) when the husband unaccountably slaps the wife for spilling the water ? which she has to carry uphill on her shoulders in buckets filled practically to the brim on either side of a pole ! ; b ) the mother crying over the death of their elder boy ( the father had to go to the mainland to get a doctor and , since the latter is not at home , goes to look for him all over the place on foot ! ) ; and c ) towards the end , following the boy's funeral , as the mother breaks down ? sobbing in desperation at their futile existence ? and vents her anger on the crops they work so hard all year long to grow . Ultimately , after my initial disappointment ( considering the passion and energy at the centre of the only other two films I've watched from this director , ONIBABA [ 1964 ] and KURONEKO [ 1968 ] ) , the twin virtues of its hypnotically beautiful images and the sublime music by Hikaru Hayashi ? surely one of the most beautiful scores I've ever heard ? are more than enough to make THE NAKED ISLAND a quietly impressive achievement in its own right .
THE GREAT GARRICK ( James Whale , 1937 )	With every new Whale film I watch , it's becoming increasingly evident that it's not just his horror output that was unique ; this one , in fact ? the director's sole effort for Warner Bros . ? feels nothing like any of their productions ! The title would seem to suggest a biopic of the celebrated English actor ? many similar prestige films emerged from Hollywood during this time , such as THE GREAT ZIEGFELD ( 1936 ) and THE GREAT WALTZ ( 1938 ) ? but Whale and screenwriter Ernest Vajda concentrate instead on one curious incident ( the fact that it never actually occurred is immaterial ) . Most of the director's typical qualities ? and faults ? are to be found in the film : his eye for pictorial detail ( accentuated by Anton Grot's distinctive set design ) , the fluid camera-work ( courtesy of Ernest Haller ) , the dry English humor , etc . However , he also tends to over-indulge his character actors ( which , this being essentially a celebration of the art of performing , is hardly surprising in this case ) and , consequently , the film's initial momentum isn't sustained throughout ? the second half is somewhat chaotic and ham-fisted ? but picks up again for the splendid finale . Nevertheless , Whale biographer James Curtis considers THE GREAT GARRICK his last wholly satisfying film ? which , actually , makes me look forward all the more to watching THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK ( 1939 ) someday given its own solid reputation ! Inevitably , the cast has been carefully and most ably chosen : the underrated Brian Aherne is superb in the title role , while it's always a pleasure to see Edward Everett Horton ( playing nervous and cowardly as always ) ; among the endless list of supporting actors , perhaps the most impressive are Etienne Girardot ( funny and poignant as an elderly stage prompter and Garrick's most devoted fan ) and Luis Alberni ( a specialist in servant roles relishing his one-shot opportunity at essaying the showier part of a lunatic ) ; in contrast , demure Olivia De Havilland ? a Warners contract player ? feels somewhat lost in such company , to the point where additional close-ups were imposed by the studio ( notably the unwarranted and corny final shot ) . This stylish and delightful gem is truly one of the unsung films about the acting profession , in every way a worthy companion piece to such major works as Marcel Carne''s CHILDREN OF PARADISE ( 1945 ) and Jean Renoir's THE GOLDEN COACH ( 1952 ) . Unfortunately , the audio on the DVD-R I watched ( made from a TCM broadcast ) was occasionally accompanied by a distracting echo ; given Warners ' recent DVD release of Whale's WATERLOO BRIDGE ( 1931 ) ? as part of the " Forbidden Hollywood " set ? and the rumored one for SHOWBOAT ( 1936 ) ? along with two other cinematic adaptations of the popular musical ? I hope that THE GREAT GARRICK won't be left behind ( after all , those two films were actually Universal productions which became the property of Warners solely by virtue of the MGM remakes ! ) .
AGAINST THE CROWD : MURRAIN ( John Cooper , 1975 )	Anticipating in its style and themes the Nigel Kneale-scripted BEASTS ( 1976 ) , this entry from another three-part TV show has been appropriately included as an extra on Network's 2-Disc R2 edition of that later series . The plot , actually , is an intriguing mix of Carl Dreyer's DAY OF WRATH ( 1943 ) ? the persecuted old witch ? and THE WICKER MAN ( 1973 ) ? a naive man from town being thrown amidst superstitious country-folk . It involves a swine plague ( but which is also starting to affect the populace ) being blamed on a peculiar and reserved woman who lives in the area ; leading the community in rising up against the ' witch ' is one of her ' victims ' , Bernard Lee : having already brutally killed her pet cat , they then cut off the water supply to the woman's house ? intending to starve her to death ! However , the young doctor who's been called to treat the stricken animals determines to speak with her ; purporting to buy supplies from the local store for himself , he's really fixing the old lady ? in whom he can see no wrong ? with provisions . On a subsequent visit , though , it becomes apparent that she's bitter and lonely from having lost her child ? venting her anger and frustration on a ragged doll the doctor comes across in her shack ! Eventually , the men confront her but Lee drops dead on her front porch ? is it her doing , or did he simply exert himself too much ? ; typically , Kneale supplies no easy answers though the program does end somewhat abruptly ? Unsurprisingly , too , dialogue is often hard to make out through the thick British accents ; still , as a whole , the film is a solid affair managing reasonable atmosphere , tension and even a subtle sense of foreboding throughout .
THE Trojan HORSE ( Giorgio Ferroni , 1961 )	I had missed out on a chance to watch this on the big screen during the B-movie retrospective at the 2004 Venice Film Festival ; with hindsight , I feel that it's a picture that should be viewed in theaters as the TV screen simply can't do justice to its spectacular widescreen photography ! As a matter of fact , of all the peplums I've been watching of late , this has probably been afforded the highest budget ; it's certainly the most handsome production of the lot . . . I had watched two other films about the famous and lengthy Trojan War - Robert Wise's HELEN OF TROY ( 1955 ) and Wolfgang Petersen's TROY ( 2004 ) , a Maltese co-production that was filmed ( for the most part ) over here - but this Italian version more than holds its own when set up against them ! Steve Reeves has perhaps his most substantial role ( apart from that of Hercules , which made his name ) and , despite his notable physique ( which is put to the test against legendary Greek hero Achilles ) , his character is a peace-loving man and certainly more thoughtful than usual for him . His wife ( Paris ' sister , whom he married in secret ) is played by lovely French actress Juliette Mayniel - who had earlier movingly played one of the victims in Georges Franju's seminal horror masterpiece EYES WITHOUT A FACE ( 1959 ) ; interestingly , director Giorgio Ferroni had just made a good variant on that film called MILL OF THE STONE WOMEN ( 1960 ) ! Understandably , the narrative only tackles the last year of the war , so that Hector ( perhaps the strongest figure in TROY ) is already dead when the film opens ; similarly , the relationship between Paris ( actually presented as the villain of the piece , if still basically wimpish ) and Helen ( whose role is pretty much left in the background ) has deteriorated considerably - which only serves to give the senselessness of the unending carnage added poignancy ! At the forefront of the plot are two other historical figures : in fact , Achilles is so impressively personified by Euro-Cult regular Arturo Dominici ( best known as Javutich , Barbara Steele's powerful and devoted acolyte in Mario Bava's BLACK Sunday [ 1960 ] ) that the film loses some steam once he is famously dispatched by an arrow in his heel ; similarly , John Drew Barrymore ( as Ulysses ) is a dominant personality during the film's first half but , once the Trojan Horse is constructed ( conveniently off-screen ) , he pretty much disappears from the narrative ! The same fate , alas , befalls the characters of Priam , Menelaus and Agamemnon ; all of these roles would receive a lot more stature in TROY , and also the luxury of such stalwart performers as Peter O'Toole , Brendan Gleeson and Brian Cox respectively ! Another regrettable element in the film is the fact that every soldier that is felled bursts out into exaggerated wailings and screams , which renders the otherwise efficiently-handled battle scenes unintentionally amusing ! So , while the film does sag a bit during its last lap , the scenes depicting the destruction of Troy by the wily Greeks and the subsequent flight of the survivors ( including Reeves and his new-born child , Mayniel's character having died giving birth to it ! ) are certainly worth waiting for - though obviously done on a lesser scale than would be the case in TROY - and the film , as a whole , still emerges as one of the best peplums out there . . .
LAKE PLACID ( Steve Miner , 1999 )	Despite being aware of the good reviews it garnered on its release , I never got to watch until now : a ' B ' horror movie at heart , this is good old-fashioned entertainment ( despite the new-fangled CGI effects ) . Considering Miner had helmed a couple of lame Friday THE 13TH films ( which I've just watched , incidentally ) , this is a far more satisfying genre effort from him : engaging protagonists ( best of all is flustered sheriff Brendan Gleeson , but Betty White's eccentric character is also memorable - with the scene where she feeds a cow to ' her ' crocodile verging on the surreal ) , good level of suspense , thrilling action , some gore , and there's also a healthy dose of humor . . . though its attempt to lend gravitas to the main theme ( with the crocodile considered a form of deity ) doesn't work . There have been few croc films , with the most notable examples being THE ALLIGATOR PEOPLE ( 1959 ) - which I'd love to rewatch , though I guess not enough to purchase Fox's bare-bones DVD - and ALLIGATOR ( 1980 ; to which this compares quite favorably ) - released as a SE by Anchor Bay UK , along with its straight-to-video sequel . By the way , while watching this I was reminded of another acquatic monster picture of recent vintage which I also missed out on - DEEP BLUE SEA ( 1999 ) - and I guess now's as good a time as any to check it out . . .
I Married A Monster From Outer Space ( Gene Fowler , Jr . , 1958 )	I had always been interested in this modest sci-fi effort whose legendary catchpenny title has turned into a cult . The film is one of several made during this time revolving around an alien takeover theme ( the most famous example , obviously , being Don Siegel's INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS [ 1956 ] ) ; its plot , then , is in the same ' paranoid ' vein ? and , while the end result isn't exactly comparable , it's nonetheless effective when taken on its own terms . The aliens ? shown only intermittently throughout ( exposed for what they are , for instance , during thunderstorms ! ) ? are pleasingly weird creations : needless to say , their scenes provide the requisite chills ( particularly a gratuitous encounter between one of them , wearing a raincoat and seen staring blankly at a shop window [ ! ] , and a bar floozie ) . While generally undercast , Tom Tryon and Gloria Talbott ( from Edgar G . Ulmer's delightfully wacky DAUGHTER OF DR . JEKYLL [ 1957 ] ) handle the tension which slowly builds between their characters adequately enough , and also featured is Peter Baldwin ( later of LA DONNA DEL LAGO aka THE POSSESSED [ 1965 ] , which I've recently watched and been impressed by ) as a police officer . Predictably , when the heroine realizes her husband's true nature and turns to the authorities for help , they've already been ' replaced ' ; interestingly , the ' old ' bodies are kept in the spaceship attached to a machine ? which , when switched off , kills the aliens instantly ( another way to dispose of them is by severing a tube in their ' make-up ' , after which they're reduced to blobs of oozing goo ) ! Having watched this soon after THE CREATION OF THE HUMANOIDS ( 1962 ) , it bears a strikingly similar ploy by which the monsters intend to mate with humans in order to keep their dying race alive ! Though they try to explain the reason behind their mission , the aliens are still depicted as essentially villainous ? so that their ultimate decimation ( amusingly , at the hands of a bunch of prospective fathers rallied from a hospital maternity ward ! ) is inevitable . For the record , the film ( ostensibly projected in a Widescreen ratio of 1 . 78 : 1 ) appeared stretched to full-frame in the DivX copy I acquired ? which was then fixed by switching my TV viewing mode to the 16 : 9 format ?
THE PROPOSITION ( John Hillcoat , 2005 )	Pretentious but engrossing existentialist Western unusually set in the Australian outback : realistic and blood-soaked , deliberately-paced but beautifully-shot . The film features terrific acting by a powerhouse cast ( or what passes for it today ) : Guy Pearce , Ray Winstone , Danny Huston , Emily Watson , John Hurt , etc . Top honors , in my opinion , go to a remarkably restrained Winstone and a flamboyant turn by Hurt ( at his raspiest ! ) as an ageing but practiced bounty-hunter ; David Wenham as Winstone's uppity superior , however , is also notable . Though I'm minimally familiar with Nick Cave's music , I wasn't aware of his film-making aspirations ( he is screenwriter and co-composer here ) or his connections ( he's been teaming up with director Hillcoat off and on since 1988 ! ) .
THE PRISONER ( Peter Glenville , 1955 )	Inspired by the plight of Catholic Cardinal Josef Mindszenty behind the Iron Curtain ? already the subject of a worthwhile low-budget Hollywood film , GUILTY OF TREASON ( 1950 ; see above ) ? this prestigious British production ( based on a Bridget Boland play , who adapts her own work for the screen ) boasts two powerhouse performances by Alec Guinness ( as the proud Prince of the Church ) and Jack Hawkins ( as the wily Interrogator ) . Their interaction is a beauty to behold and one cannot help but be reminded how these formidable actors had already worked together in , curiously enough , MALTA STORY ( 1953 ) and , of course , would go on to do so again under David Lean's Oscar-winning direction in THE BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI ( 1957 ) and LAWRENCE OF ARABIA ( 1962 ) . Although much of the running time is devoted to their rigorous one-on-one sessions ( enough for it to be deemed a two-hander ) , the film allows ( at least ) another fine actor to shine : Wilfred Lawson as Guinness ' jailer who grows to respect his prisoner with time . The small cast also includes Kenneth Griffith as Hawkins ' eager-to-learn subordinate ? incidentally , the latter also appeared in two episodes of Patrick McGoohan's later cult TV series of the same name but which bore no relation to this movie ! ? and Raymond Huntley as Hawkins ' impatient superior . Conversely , the romantic subplot between doubting Communist Ronald Lewis and his Catholic girlfriend Jeanette Sterke seems forced and intrusive ? almost like an afterthought ( whereas it had been far more effectively handled in the aforementioned Hollywood treatment ) . But , as I said before , the film's trump card is its gradual depiction of the evolving relationship between the two leads , which really has no equivalent in GUILTY OF TREASON ( where Charles Bickford's tormentors were various and generally shrouded in darkness ) . Although the main characters and the setting remain unnamed throughout ( lending it a pretentious air of political allegory also missing from the earlier film ) , the controversial subject of THE PRISONER got it banned from participating in both the Cannes and Venice Film Festivals ? although it did get nominated for 5 BAFTAs and , eventually , won a couple of other international awards .
THE CRUSADES ( Cecil B . De Mille , 1935 )	To begin with , being a fan of the epic genre , I had always wanted to check this one out and , in fact , was very pleased when Universal released it as part of their 5-Disc Cecil B . De Mille collection ; however , since I already owned both THE SIGN OF THE CROSS ( 1932 ) and CLEOPATRA ( 1934 ) via TCM showings , I kept postponing the purchase of this set ? until I acquired the lot through a friend of my father's ! Having been duly impressed with those two De Mille spectaculars , I had intended to watch this immediately ( I got the film around the middle of last year ) but for various reasons ? I even had to exclude it from my Christmas viewing ? I could only get to it now that Easter is approaching ! Incidentally , the 5th of March happened to mark the centenary from the birth of actor Rex Harrison , who had starred as Saladin ( the villainous ' infidel ' of THE CRUSADES ) in KING RICHARD AND THE CRUSADERS ( 1954 ) , which I recorded off Italian TV ( even if I had already watched it and in spite of its poor reputation ) expressly for the purpose of accompanying my viewing of De Mille's film ! Anyway , THE CRUSADES is another notable achievement ( from the days prior to the epic heyday of the 1950s and 1960s ) which goes to prove ? yet again ? that De Mille was perhaps cinema's greatest purveyor of hokum disguised as inspirational art for the masses ( even if this particular example , reportedly , flopped at the box-office ) . The central relationship between gorgeous Loretta Young ( such strong female presences abound in the director's work ) and De Mille regular Henry Wilcoxon ( an unusually handsome , and Godless , Richard the Lionheart ? amusingly referred to by Saladin as " The Lion King " ! ) goes through some interesting , yet oddly believable , tangents during the course of the film . Starting off in antagonistic vein more typical of then-current screwball comedies ( he even prefers carousing with his men to their wedding ceremony , where his place is eventually taken by the royal sword ! ) , it develops into one that borders on amour fou ? which could jeopardize the outcome of the whole crusade ( it's actually comparable to the bond-to-the-death between Roman centurion Fredric March and Christian slave Elissa Landi in the earlier THE SIGN OF THE CROSS ) ! The excellent supporting cast includes , among others , Ian Keith ( as Saladin ) , Joseph Schildkarut ( typically sneaky as one of the Christian rulers ) , C . Henry Gordon ( as the French King , whose sister Katharine De Mille ? the director's adopted daughter ? Richard has deliberately spurned ) , Alan Hale ( as Richard's minstrel / sidekick , a Little John type that would soon become his trademark ) , C . Aubrey Smith ( as the old hermit who is challenged by the overly confident Saladin at the beginning of the picture to rally the Christian countries in a crusade against his forces and , later , made hostage and chained to a cross to bar passage to the advancing army , he asks Richard to proceed with the attack regardless ! ) and Mischa Auer ( in an early role as a monk ) . While the script obviously eschews the Robin Hood legend that has become associated with Richard and the Crusades ( the Douglas Fairbanks version of 1922 about that popular outlaw figure , in fact , spends more time with him as a knight than the proverbial ' Merrie Man ' ! ) , subtlety is still the last thing one would hope to find in a De Mille pageant . In fact , Young's abduction by the Muslims ( with her dressed as a sentry in a suicidal bid to end the discord between the various royals ! ) is pretty contrived ; similarly , the fact that Young is contended in the terms laid down by Saladin for the truce with the Christian world is pure Hollywood . With this in mind , the dialogue ( co-written by Dudley Nichols ) is consciously stilted throughout ? albeit featuring such good lines as Saladin's defiant claim to the monarchs gathered in their tent , " There is room enough in Asia to bury all of you ! " Made after the dreaded ( and stifling ) Hays Code came into force , it's not as bloodthirsty as the afore-mentioned THE SIGN OF THE CROSS ? even so , the battle scenes are quite realistic ( with the clanging of heavy steel being heard as the opposing armies clash in a confusion of warriors and horses ) and may well have influenced Sergei Eisenstein's Alexander NEVSKY ( 1938 ) . There is one evident display of viciousness here on an isolated member of Schildkraut's treacherous army as a clutch of Muslim riders ( appearing on the scene to rescue the cornered Wilcoxon at the instigation of Saladin himself , in the hope of thus winning Young's love ) fall on him en masse with their spears . Boasting superlative photography ( Victor Milner's work in this capacity presented the film with its sole Oscar nomination ) and massive crowd scenes , the film survives as tremendous entertainment even after all these years . Incidentally , it seemed common practice in spectacles of the era to provide villains of the Muslim persuasion ? as can be gathered from the likes of ABDUL THE DAMNED ( 1935 ; a British production I first watched over Christmas ) , THE LIVES OF A BENGAL LANCER ( 1935 ) , THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE ( 1936 ) and GUNGA DIN ( 1939 ) .
SHINE A LIGHT ( Martin Scorsese , 2008 )	This is actually the fifth Rolling Stones performance film I’ve watched after SYMPATHY FOR THE DEVIL ( 1968 ; directed by Jean-Luc Godard ! ) , THE STONES IN THE PARK ( 1969 ) , GIMME SHELTER ( 1970 ) and AT THE MAX ( 1991 ) ; GIMME SHELTER is still tops , since it captures The Stones ( and Rock Music ) at their pinnacle of achievement and controversy – so that Scorsese’s film emerges as a celebration of the group’s unassailable musical heritage and undeniable live showmanship . Given the fact that the director had used their music on his film’s soundtracks as early as MEAN STREETS ( 1973 ) , it’s curious ( to say the least ) that it took him 35 years to capture them ‘for posterity’ . However , in spite of the fact that both documentarist and subjects have aged considerably in the interim , the end result shows that they clearly are still at the very top of their respective game as this is , undoubtedly , one of the most exhilarating concert films on record . Of course , Scorsese already had two rockumentaries to his name : I’d watched his chronicle of The Band’s legendary 1976 all-star farewell concert , THE LAST WALTZ ( 1978 ) – to which there is a subtle nod here when Ronnie Wood and Keith Richards are shown playing pool in the film’s opening sequence – but not his recent ‘documentation’ of Bob Dylan’s early phase in NO DIRECTION HOME ( 2005 ) , which alas wasn’t released locally . Still , on the strength of this , I’m even more eager now to catch it now . . . but since , as far as I can tell , it’s not even available for rental on DVD , that won’t be happening any time soon ! The Stones also demonstrate that their anti-establishment stance has not mellowed with age since , in spite of his acknowledged reputation both as a film-maker and chronicler of music , they definitely do not make it easy for Scorsese and his troupe to capture their act , much less let him run their show at his convenience ! In fact , the opening 10 minutes of the film sees the motormouth director driven to distraction by the Stones’ evasion in coming up with a complete set list for the upcoming concerts – part of their current " A Bigger Bang " tour ( although no songs from that latest studio album are to be found here ) – so that he can carefully line up his shots in time and , eventually , they only budge literally seconds before the start of the show ( which Scorsese feverishly scrutinizes ) ! Once one gets past the hurdle of the improbable vision of a pensionable , craggy-faced guy jumping up and down on a stage and acting horny , Mick Jagger’s enormously kinetic and charismatic performance is a real standout . Guest stars include Bill and Hilary Clinton , Bruce Willis ( appearing for a couple of seconds in the audience ) , bluesman Buddy Guy ( co-performing a Blues standard " Champagne and Reefer " in one of the film’s highlights ) , rocker Jack White ( duetting with Mick and Keith on " Loving Cup " ) and popstar Christina Aguilera ( surprisingly effective on " Live With Me " ) . Although the concert includes a handful of their trademark tunes – " As Tears Go By " , " ( I Can’t Get No ) Satisfcation " , " Jumpin’ Jack Flash " , " Sympathy for The Devil " , " Brown Sugar " and " Start Me Up " – they chose to mostly highlight two benchmark albums of the 1970s – 3 songs from " Exile On Main Street ( 1972 ) " and 4 from " Some Girls ( 1978 ) " ; the title of the film , incidentally , also comes from a song off " Exile " but which is only partially heard ( in its album version ) over the end credits . Bafflingly enough , Scorsese decided to augment his concert footage with archival material like TV interviews and news reports on their occasional drug busts which , apart from two relevant snippets about their prospective durability , I didn’t think really belonged here ( particularly when spliced straight into the middle of one of Keith Richards’ two songs ) ; one split-screen interview shows Mick and Keith’s different responses to the same questions – the former is pragmatic and honest , but the latter largely evades the issues but does so with impish humor ! Incidentally , witnessing the bulky cameras gliding over the audience’s heads a few times towards the end , it was appropriate that Scorsese would amusingly have Mick Jagger’s objection of that fact be the very last thing we hear on the soundtrack after the end credits have rolled ( the latter are led into by the film’s single most staggering shot as Scorsese personally instructs the camera operator to " take it up " from the marquee of the event all the way to a panoramic view of New York City ) ! The film was dedicated to Atlantic Record executive Ahmet Ertegun , which stems from the fact that he died from a head injury sustained in a backstage fall on the opening night of the concerts recorded here ! For the record , I’d watched ex-Stones bassist Bill Wyman perform at the Jim Capaldi memorial concert in London in January 2007 ; furthermore , I was practically all set to go see the Stones live at London’s Wembley Arena in 1997 when the concert was postponed due to Keith Richards’ accident at his home in which he fractured his ribs !
WE THE LIVING ( Goffredo Alessandrini , 1942 )	I haven't watched that many Italian films made prior to the neo-realist movement but I knew of this film from " Leonard Maltin's Film Guide " , so I taped it when shown on late-night TV some years ago . Though it had lain in my " VHS To Watch " pile since that time , I decided to give it a whirl now as a tribute to its leading lady Alida Valli - who died only last week ! The film's history is as convoluted as that of its narrative , which is close to 3 hours in length : the story takes place in Russia and the plot ( an unauthorized adaptation of the Ayn Rand novel ) naturally dealt with Communism ; being a wartime production ( if still handsomely mounted ) , it was deemed to be critical of the Fascist regime and subsequently banned ! Only in 1986 was the film restored to its current form - and distributed in the U . S . to considerable success - but , unfortunately , the source print wasn't perfect ( with the result that the video version suffers from some distracting fuzziness , particularly towards the end ) . . . Despite its epic scope , the film is decidedly talky and necessarily heavy-going in nature ; but the acting ( featuring perhaps romantic idol Rossano Brazzi's finest performance ) is terrific and , as a whole , the narrative anticipates another troubled wartime epic - Marcel Carne''s masterpiece CHILDREN OF PARADISE ( 1945 ) , particularly in the way Valli is pursued by a number of suitors throughout the film but ends up alone by the end of it . The only other film by director Goffredo Alessandrini I've watched is ABUNA MESSIAS ( 1939 ) , another historical piece but - ironically enough - a propagandist one ! In the end , with all the celebrated classics that have emerged from Italy along the years by any number of influential auteurs , WE THE LIVING remains - with good reason - an important film and , undeniably , one of the most impressive ( if largely unsung ) ever made in that country .
THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE ( Guy Hamilton and , uncredited , Alexander Mackendrick , 1959 )	Despite its imposing credentials ( featuring the star combo of Burt Lancaster , Kirk Douglas and Laurence Olivier and being adapted from a George Bernard Shaw play ) , this film is ? criminally , if you ask me ? scarcely ever revived . Until now , in fact , I had to make do with a tiny reproduction of the poster from the time of its original release locally ( kept by my father in a large worn-out scrapbook ) ; for the record , the copy under review was culled from a TCM screening . Anyway , this is a comedy-adventure of the kind ' they don't make ' em like anymore ' but one that , being rich in dialogue ( as is to be expected of a Shaw work ) , comes across as atypically intelligent . The setting is the American Revolution ( incidentally , the film was begun by Alexander Mackendrick ? an American whose career actually took off in England ! ) with Lancaster a small-town preacher , Douglas a self-proclaimed " ne'er-do-well " and Olivier the General of the invading British army . Douglas , at his roguish best , and a wittily sardonic Olivier are very funny ? while Lancaster's initial ( albeit necessary ) glumness is redeemed by a characteristic bout of acrobatics at the finale . Interestingly , he and Douglas ( by the way , THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE was a co-production between their respective companies ) gradually exchange identities throughout the film ? with the latter passing himself off as a man of the cloth yet keeping his fervent anti-British sentiments unchecked and the minister forced by circumstances into rebellion , action and eventually negotiations with the enemy . The supporting cast , then , is headed by lovely Janette Scott ( who manages to hold her own in the company of the two American stars , playing a character named Judith Anderson ! ) and Harry Andrews ( in the role of Olivier's eager yet dim-witted aide ) but also including the likes of Basil Sydney , Mervyn Johns and Allan Cuthbertson . Notable , too , are a rousing score by Richard Rodney Bennett and the novel bits of exposition ( detailing the progress of General Burgoyne's ill-fated campaign ) amusingly done by shifting military figurines about on a map of the area ; incidentally , in the style of Lancaster's THE CRIMSON PIRATE ( 1952 ; also co-written by Roland Kibbee ) , we are urged to believe the events as fictionalized here rather than the way documented history presents them !
ACCIDENT ( Joseph Losey , 1967 )	This is arguably Losey's masterpiece , overtaking in my mind the more renowned THE SERVANT ( 1963 ; see review above ) . In place of his trademark directorial stylistics , a more formal but equally assured approach to film-making - signaled perhaps by being his last outing with frequent collaborators Dirk Bogarde ( with whom he made 5 films ) , Stanley Baker ( 4 ) , Alexander Knox ( 4 ) and composer Johnny Dankworth ( 4 ) - is in evidence here . The only concessions to ' style ' are some temporal flourishes a ' la Resnais and a superbly enigmatic interlude with Bogarde , where the dialogue between him and former lover Delphine Seyrig is heard as voice-over while the characters are seen interacting in different surroundings ! Still , the film's flashback structure is perhaps famed playwright Harold Pinter's doing who contributes a fine , nuanced script . The characters say very little to one another : indeed the film as a whole may be too low-key for most viewers but the real emotions ( lust , contempt , pity , hypocrisy ) they feel for each other come to the fore regardless through fleeting glances , hesitant remarks , etc . ; Bogarde even gets into a stammering fit in especially stressful moments , and only gets to concede to his repressed desires i . e make love to his pupil Jacqueline Sassard , when she is at her most vulnerable - immediately after her boyfriend's tragic death , even though his own wife is pregnant with their third child ! The film features an excellent ensemble cast , led by a vulnerable Bogarde and a particularly despicable Baker . This was also Michael York's first major role ; in fact , he flew to Cannes specifically to talk with Losey - who was presenting MODESTY BLAISE ( 1966 ; see review above ) - about getting the part ! On the contrary , Sassard would go on to make just one more film - Claude Chabrol's masterly LES BICHES ( 1968 ) where , again , she was the ' prize ' in a ménage-a'-trois that also comprised Jean-Louis Trintignant and lesbian Stephane Audran ! - before disappearing from cinema screens altogether ! ! Freddie Jones , Pinter himself and Nicholas Mosley ( the author of the source novel ) appear in small roles , while Gerry Fisher's beautiful cinematography and Dankworth's jazzy score effectively complement the film's pervasive brooding mood . ACCIDENT was nominated for 4 BAFTAs and won the Grand Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival but , again , Losey was criminally neglected at the Oscars .
Dracula ( 1931 ) - US Version ; Spanish Version	The Browning / Lugosi ' classic ' has always been one of my favorite Universal horror films but , ever since the simultaneously-produced ' rival ' Spanish version resurfaced , the ' original ' has taken a beating by fans and historians alike - mainly because the latter features superior camera-work ! This , however , is the ONLY area where it can lay a claim to be better in when compared to the US version ( the fact that leading lady Lupita Tovar had a sexier wardrobe than Helen Chandler shouldn't even be considered , I guess ) . Still , the fact that on the DVD the opinion that the seminal US version is the inferior one seems to be shared by quite a few people hasn't done it any favors ! I remember being impressed by the Spanish version when I first watched it in 2001 , singling out for praise the performance of Pablo Alvarez Rubio as Renfield and , of course , George Robinson's cinematography . However , coming back to it now , I felt that Rubio's hysterical rendering of the character ( which reminded me of Gene Wilder in YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN [ 1974 ] of all people ! ) was nowhere nearly as nuanced as Dwight Frye's unforgettable characterization in the US version . Regarding the " superior camera-work " , I guess this is true for individual sequences ( Dracula's introduction , for instance ) but , frankly , I never felt that Karl Freund - a pioneer of the moving camera - had somehow been restrained by Tod Browning , who admittedly wasn't very fond of this technique . Given that of late we've also been faced by the ridiculous assumption that Browning didn't actually direct the film , he couldn't have - since he wasn't even there ! ! It may be however , that since frequent Browning collaborator Lon Chaney ( who had been slated for the title role ) died before shooting began , the director sort of lost heart in the project - coupled also with the fact that the script was rather talky , another element with which Browning felt uneasy ! Well , whatever went on behind the scenes , for me what's in front remains one of the highlights of the American horror film - from the marvelous dialogue ( especially as delivered - each in their own unique way - by Lugosi , Frye and Edward Van Sloan ) , irreproachable performances ( Frye and Van Sloan were at their best , while Lugosi only ever really came close with THE BLACK CAT [ 1934 ] and SON OF FRANKENSTEIN [ 1939 ] ) and memorable individual scenes ( the entire first act set in Transylvania , the confrontation scenes between Dracula and his nemesis Professor Van Helsing , Renfield's various ravings ) . The tame ending may appear anti-climactic to most people but I honestly was never bothered by it ! If anything , this was remedied in any number of ways in subsequent outings . . . Which brings us back to the Spanish Dracula : like I said , the film is an interesting and altogether pleasing ' alternate ' to the Lugosi version . . . but it is fatally compromised by the inadequate leading performance of Carlos Villarias , whose bulging eyes and feral snarls can't hold a candle to Lugosi's definitive screen vampire ! This version does go to places where the American doesn't ( Browning shies away from the vampire attacks , for instance ) and even features ' new ' scenes like the aftermath of the vampiric Lucy's demise - but , at 104 minutes ( a full half-hour longer than the US version , when considering that they were following the same script ! ) it's way overlong for its own good . The Browning / Lugosi version is often criticized for its sluggishness but this one actually moves at a snail's pace : take , for instance , the famous scene where Dracula is exposed by the mirror - Lugosi knocks the box down immediately , while Villarias takes forever to do so ( even if his resolution is effectively flamboyant nonetheless ) . A word about the DVD quality : disappointingly , the Spanish version features closed-captions ( for the hearing-impaired ) rather than proper subtitles . As for the US version , the print utilized for this particular transfer ( which differs from that of the original , and more satisfactory , 1999 release ) is a bit too dark for my taste and the dialogue sometimes was hard to catch due to the incessant hiss on the soundtrack ! It also reverts to the ' original ' single groan during Dracula's staking ( instead of the elongated variant available on the earlier disc ) . . . but does feature a bit of music at the end of the Opera sequence , which had been missing from the previous edition ! ! Well , this only means that it's worth keeping both copies of Dracula as neither is really definitive . . .
TARTUFFE ( F . W . Murnau , 1925 )	In 1992 , an Italian TV channel showed a two-week late-night retrospective of Silent films , the bulk of which were expressionist classics . Unfortunately , I missed out on a couple of these and TARTUFFE was among them . More than a decade had to pass before I could watch it , by which time I had come to consider Murnau - despite the fact that only a small portion of his work has survived the ravages of time - as one of the undisputed masters of cinema . For some reason , TARTUFFE has been little-seen over the years so that it never had much of a reputation ( which may explain why I by-passed its sole TV showing to begin with ! ) ; having watched the film now , it clearly emerges as a masterwork from the golden age of German cinema and its place in Murnau's irreproachable canon ( still impressive 75 years after the director's untimely death ! ) should not be overlooked . Having watched OTHELLO ( 1922 ) - which also starred Emil Jannings and Werner Krauss - relatively recently , I couldn't help noticing that it offers an interesting role-reversal with Murnau's film for these two powerhouse actors ; in fact , Jannings ' larger-than-life performance here is played alongside an impressively restrained turn from Krauss ( whom I had previously only seen essaying villainous characters ) . One of TARTUFFE's most interesting elements is its ' film-within-a-film ' structure that looks back to THE CABINET OF DR . CALIGARI ( 1919 ; featuring Krauss's most famous role , interestingly enough ) and forward to Hiroshi Teshigahara's THE FACE OF ANOTHER ( 1966 ) - which , coincidentally , I watched the very next day ( my review of which is shortly to follow ) without having prior knowledge of this ! Criticized at the time for being a pointless flourish on the film-makers ' part , I strongly feel that - with respect to TARTUFFE , at least - this device merely underlines the universality of the main theme being dealt with . I see , however , a third connection at play here , this time with Murnau's own NOSFERATU ( 1922 ) : Tartuffe is presented as a different form of bloodsucker , one who is not undead but very much alive ( or human , if you like ) , and just as dangerous - not to mention that much more common in our daily life than the vampire of myth and literature ; besides , the fact that - as in NOSFERATU - here it is the devoted wife of the man under the influence of Moliere's symbolic figure of hypocrisy ( " From now on , all hypocrites shall be called ' Tartuffe ' ! " reads a subtitle ) who brings about his come-uppance , by ' sacrificing ' herself , only helps reinforce this particular aspect . Despite the film's relative brevity ( explained in my notes for the accompanying documentary below ) , its intimate nature , and also the fact that Murnau was handed the project at short notice , his trademark stylistics of expressionistic lighting and acrobatic camera-work are well in evidence . Finally , I would like to say something about the English subtitles - displayed over the original German intertitles - for all three of " Masters Of Cinema " ' s Silent releases ( the others being , of course , SPIONE [ 1928 ] and ASPHALT [ 1929 ] ) : I admire Eureka / MoC's decision to preserve authenticity in every aspect of their DVDs , but the interweaving text ( with the English translation appearing in too small a font ) makes it a comparatively labored read overall ! At this juncture , I truly regret missing out on the retrospective of Murnau's work shown a few years back at London's National Film Theatre - and I can only long for the time I will be able to watch the likes of JOURNEY INTO THE NIGHT ( 1921 ) , THE HAUNTED CASTLE ( 1921 ; when I was in Hollywood I held in my hands a DVD-R of this film but , since it had been announced for DVD release by Image , I didn't rent it ) , THE BURNING SOIL ( 1922 ) , PHANTOM ( 1922 ; the same comments for THE HAUNTED CASTLE apply here , its DVD release from Flicker Alley has been imminent for some time now ! ) , THE GRAND DUKE'S FINANCES ( 1924 ) and CITY GIRL ( 1930 ) . It's inconceivable how the work of such an important film-maker , so long as it is available , is kept mysteriously under wraps - thus denying film buffs everywhere the opportunity of enjoying it ! The 41-minute documentary , TARTUFFE : THE LOST FILM ( 2004 ; TV ) , is an essential watch for fans of Silent films and director F . W . Murnau : although TARTUFFE may not be among Murnau's greatest films , it is certainly one of his most personal as he identified himself with the young relative who is shunned from his inheritance because he has chosen the lowbrow way of the artist rather than a more lucrative profession . Besides , the documentary highlights the depressing state of most Silent films in existence today : while we should consider ourselves lucky that the U . S . theatrical version of TARTUFFE ( from which the DVD transfer was made ) is in such a good state , it is considerably shorter than the original German version . Fragments of the lost scenes shown in the documentary include a couple of key sequences which , as incomplete as they are in the film now , seem a little rushed . Although the quality is understandably inferior , one wonders why they weren't included in the main feature itself .
A DOUBLE LIFE ( George Cukor , 1947 )	A fondly-remembered melodrama ? thanks chiefly to Ronald Colman's fine Oscar-winning central performance ? about an oft-treated theme : the nature of acting and how it can overtake one's perception of reality . In this case , we have a well-known thespian tackling Shakespeare's " Othello " , so that the film's last third delves effectively into the thriller genre ? with press agent Edmond O'Brien ( who happens to really be besotted with Colman's co-star and ex-wife Signe Hasso ) ' investigating ' the actor's possible involvement in the Desdemona-like strangling of a celebrity-seeking waitress ( a very slim Shelley Winters ) . The theatrical / New York atmosphere of the immediate post-war era is vividly captured by the husband-and-wife screen writing team of Garson Kanin and Ruth Gordon and legendary " actor's director " George Cukor ( all of whom were recognized by the Academy with nominations ) ; incidentally , the film nabbed a second Oscar for Miklos Rozsa's eclectic score . Colman , forever the suave leading man blessed besides with a velvety voice , does well enough by Shakespeare ? gaining conviction the farther his character slips into obsessive jealousy , a murderous rage and , eventually , paranoia ; however , he is not let down by a supporting cast which also includes director Ray Collins , reporter Millard Mitchell , detective Joe Sawyer and coroner Whit Bissell . Though the mid-section is a bit strained , the film makes up for any deficiencies with a remarkably-handled Expressionist denouement .
BRUTE FORCE ( Jules Dassin , 1947 )	Though I'd only previously watched this movie once almost 25 years ago on a long-defunct Sicilian TV channel called Antenna 10 , some scenes have stuck with me to this day and being able to reacquaint myself with the film was a long-cherished prospect which , thanks to Criterion , I now have . The film is the epitome of the great , hard-hitting prison dramas of the 1930s , but the style in which it was filmed also makes it fall in the " Film Noir " category . This was only Burt Lancaster's second movie but he is already a tough , powerful screen presence and his character is one of the most respected within the prison community . The casting ( in characterizations which would be much imitated in subsequent prison films ) is perfection : pint-sized Hume Cronyn is very effectively cast against type as the quintessential brutal prison captain of the guards , Charles Bickford is the bigwig inmate who gets things done , Sam Levene is his reporter sidekick . Lancaster's gang includes Howard Duff ( making his film debut ) , Jeff Corey ( as a surprising ' rat ' ) , suave ladies ' man John Hoyt and Whit Bissell as the most vulnerable and least likely inmate who falls victim to Cronyn's " brute force " . There's also Jay C . Flippen as an easy-going prison guard , Sir Lancelot as a happy-go-lucky jack-of-all-trades whose songs often sarcastically comment on the action , Vince Barnett as an old-timer who brings food ( and messages ) to the most dangerous inmates currently serving in the drainpipes , and an uncredited Charles McGraw as an arms dealer . Actually , one of the best roles in the film ? the alcoholic , philosophizing prison doctor who is the only one genuinely interested in the fate of his " patients " ? is splendidly portrayed by an actor who was unknown to me , Art Smith , and his confrontations with Cronyn offer some of the film's quiet highlights . While the film itself offers relatively little new in terms of plot ? a few of the prisoners are planning a breakout , the sadistic and power-hungry captain is more evil than the inmates themselves , an informer is punished during a staged scuffle , a traitor is present within Lancaster's gang , the climactic escape is a botched massacre , etc ? and some of the plot points rather contrived ? Sam Levene being sent to the drainpipes , which results in his being tortured by Cronyn ? but Dassin's assured handling still makes all of these situations work superbly well . Ironically , after a period directing mostly light fare , this was the start of a peerless run of five noir classics ? culminating in his celebrated caper film , RIFIFI ( 1955 ) , made while exiled in France . Curiously enough , another Hollywood exile would later on basically make the British equivalent of BRUTE FORCE ? i . e . Joseph Losey's exceptional THE CRIMINAL ( 1960 ) ? while the failed prison break ( in similar circumstances ) also brings to mind Jacques Becker's masterful swan song , LE TROU ( 1960 ) . Like THE KILLERS ( 1946 ) before it , this was a Mark Hellinger production ( it features no less than four actors from that film ) and so would be Dassin's follow-up ? THE NAKED CITY ( 1948 ) . Miklos Rozsa's music is very good and subtly underscores the action . Unfortunately , the four flashback sequences added to the film to show that the hardened criminals here are good-natured people at heart , are mostly redundant and basically only serve to provide some female interest to the story ; still , they are brief enough not be detrimental to the film's overall uncompromising bleakness . Incidentally , while screenwriter Richard Brooks was involved in this capacity with several noirs ? the others being THE KILLERS itself , CROSSFIRE ( 1947 ) , KEY LARGO ( 1948 ) and MYSTERY STREET ( 1950 ; which I recently acquired via Warners ' fourth " Film Noir Collection " but have yet to watch ) ? he never revisited the genre once he graduated to the director's chair ( though some sources do list his Mexican Revolution-set CRISIS [ 1950 ] and the crusading newspaper story DEADLINE ? U . S . A . [ 1952 ] under this flexible banner ) .
The Cat And The Canary ( Paul Leni , 1927 )	I recall being somewhat underwhelmed by this on first viewing ( its reputation having ensured it a place in my very first online DVD purchase ! ) but , rewatching the film now , sees it elevated to its rightful place among the best horror films of the Silent era - indeed one of the great Silents , period . It's the quintessential " old dark house " film which , in their 1920s heyday , seemed to always incorporate comedy ( since many of these had actually originated on the stage ) . Of its kind , I've also watched THE MONSTER ( 1925 ; starring Lon Chaney ) as well as the Talkie remake of THE BAT ( 1926 ) , called THE BAT WHISPERS ( 1930 ) - all of these , incidentally , were made by director Roland West ; one more I'd love to catch up with is Benjamin Christensen's SEVEN FOOTPRINTS TO Satan ( 1929 ) , though two other films he did in the same vein - THE HAUNTED HOUSE ( 1928 ) and HOUSE OF HORROR ( 1929 ) - are , regrettably , considered lost ! Leni himself directed THE LAST WARNING ( 1929 ; though that was actually set inside a theater ) . Anyway , the film certainly provided the right atmosphere : visually , it's a real treat ( even if the DVD I own is the earlier Image edition , i . e . not the Remastered one ) - highlighting Gilbert Warrenton's mobile camera and optical effects and Charles D . Hall's fantastic set design ( but even the title cards bring their own inventiveness ! ) . The cast , some of whom are familiar ( such as Tully Marshall , Arthur Edmund Carewe , George Siegmann and Lucien Littlefield ) , is well-assembled - even if none of the roles require much depth and are more or less stereotypes , such as the ' fraidy cat ' who eventually makes good , the elder female relative ( equally terrified ) , the sinister-looking old servant-woman devoted to her dead master , the innocent and put-upon heroine , etc . While the pace is somewhat slow ( the plot really gets going during the second half ) , the film is tremendously entertaining all the way through ; when I first watched it , I had felt that too much attention was given to the comic relief but this time around I saw the film's mixture of thrills and laughter as more evenly balanced ( and the gags themselves not terribly archaic ) . With respect to the horror element , it's not so much to the fore - since the film is more of a thriller really ; in fact , " The Cat " itself doesn't feature in it all that much , but there's no denying that it's a memorably ghoulish creation ! The end credits themselves are quite amusing : reproducing the cast list ( which would come to be a Universal trademark ) so that patrons could cite those participants who had particularly pleased them - followed by a request by company President Carl Laemmle , urging the public to write to him personally with their opinion of the film ! The score ( which is a re-recording of the original accompaniment to the film ) sounds awfully familiar and was probably re-used for other Silents or subsequent Universal horror films . Some years ago I had also watched the 1978 remake of THE CAT AND THE CANARY ( surprisingly directed by Radley Metzger , better known for his ventures in Erotica ! ) and would love to get to the 1939 version which cemented Bob Hope's popularity and is , actually , as highly regarded as the original ( ! ) ; unfortunately , it's only available in a reportedly atrocious print on Region 2 DVD . . .
CRAZY MIXED UP PUP ( Tex Avery , 1954 )	From its title , I wasn't aware that I had watched this one before ? which , despite being a latter-day Avery effort , is every bit a classic cartoon . Again , the premise is simple yet totally insane : a man and his dog are trampled by a car while crossing the road ; a cross-eyed male nurse mistakenly applies the wrong kind of plasma to each , with the result that the man takes on the habits of the dog and vice versa . Of course , this sends the wife ( and the dog's own ' spouse ' ) up the wall ? even if both intermittently revert to their natural states and , obviously , think that it's their respective mates who are nuts ! Predictably , then , the ending sees the wife and her pet getting the exact same affliction after being run over themselves by a car ? and subsequently revived by the same eager but clueless medical attendant ! And they all lived happily ever after ?
HOLIDAY INN ( Mark Sandrich , 1942 )	As I've said often enough , I've somewhat outgrown the Musical genre over the years and , consequently , I do not go back to it as often as I ought to perhaps . Seeing how this is my third viewing of the classic first screen teaming of Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire , therefore , it follows that HOLIDAY INN is something rather special and , indeed , I believe it is . Although the film is nowadays best-known perhaps for introducing the world's best-selling single record ? Irving Berlin's evergreen Oscar-winning " White Christmas " ? it is also an amiably heartwarming slice of impeccable entertainment as only Hollywood during its Golden Age was able to provide . The storyline is simple enough : a trio of entertainers " quarrel " over the girl in the middle and while one ( Fred Astaire ) proposes to her , the other ( Bing Crosby ) quits showbiz to settle down in a remote farming community . But , as often happens in such marriages , the union is short-lived and Astaire soon heads towards Connecticut to try out Bing's happy " busy doing nothing " lifestyle . Meanwhile , the latter has hooked up with an ambitious girl but Astaire immediately sets his eyes on her as a potential dancing partner for himself . . . Although HOLIDAY INN's association with " White Christmas " gives one the impression that the events taking place in it are set exclusively around Christmas-time , the title of the film itself is much more appropriate as the inn Crosby sets up is one that specifically opens on the 15 public holidays which crop up in the American calendar throughout the year ? which are illustrated for us on the screen as they occur , including an amusingly animated one with a confused turkey on Thanksgiving Day ! The musical numbers prepared by Crosby and Astaire for their patrons are delightfully elaborate ones with Crosby singing in blackface ( on Abraham Lincoln's birthday ) and Astaire donning a wig ( on George Washington's birthday ) . Astaire also has a tour-de-force solo number with lots of firecrackers for his partners ? one he frantically cooks up on the spot to impress Hollywood talent agents after the girl that was supposed to accompany him fails to appear ( thanks to one of Crosby's recurring ruses to put an end to their partnership ) . Apart from that Oscar-winning song , Irving Berlin's wonderful score also includes " Easter Parade " ( which was brought to the screen six years later by Astaire himself and Judy Garland ) , " I'll Capture Your Heart Singing " ( a dueling duet between Crosby and Astaire ) and " You're Easy To Dance With " ( sung by Astaire as he dances with his new partner , Marjorie Reynolds ) . The cast is a very strong ingredient in contributing towards the film's overall success : Bing Crosby is at his best ( in a lightly , comedic vein ) as the laid-back proprietor of Holiday Inn ; Fred Astaire is perfectly cast as his self-absorbed romantic rival and has a great drunken dance sequence around the film's mid-point ; the relatively unknown Marjorie Reynolds is a very likable leading lady ( she worked steadily in films for years without ever attaining stardom and , apart from this one , her most high-profile role was in Fritz Lang's MINISTRY OF FEAR [ 1944 ] ; Walter Abel was one of Hollywood's most consummate character actors and he is his usual flustered self here as Astaire's conniving agent ; Irving Bacon has a small but winning role of a yokel Crosby hires to detain Reynolds ( by any means necessary ? which ultimately sees him driving his car straight into a river ! ) from performing at Holiday Inn when Hollywood comes knocking , etc . Director Mark Sandrich ( who helmed some of the best entries in the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers cycle in the 1930s ) displays an admirably light touch throughout which ensures that the film breezes through its alternately comic and musical phases without a bump . Bing Crosby and Fred Astaire would later be reteamed for the less successful BLUE SKIES ( 1946 ) ? which I haven't seen yet but wouldn't mind doing so eventually ? and HOLIDAY INN itself would be revamped ( less effectively ) the following decade as WHITE Christmas ( 1954 ) , a Vistavision color vehicle for Crosby again , Danny Kaye , Rosemary Clooney and Vera-Ellen .
THE MILKY WAY ( Luis Bunuel , 1969 )	In view of its subject matter ? the gleeful put-down of Christian dogma , a lot of which is contradictory anyway ( explaining the flood of religious sects we have all suffered from ! ) ? this has always been the one Bunuel film that is perhaps hardest to warm up to ; more than any other of the director's work , its relentlessly didactic nature requires one's full attention throughout ? and , needless to say , the experience can be somewhat daunting ( it's definitely not the ideal choice for a beginner ! ) . However , THE MILKY WAY is still a milestone in the Surrealist director's career : his previous effort , the chic and sexy BELLE DE JOUR ( 1967 ) , had performed exceptionally well at the box-office ? hence , Bunuel was given carte blanche on the next one ; typically , he responded by delivering that which , on the surface , amounts to the exact opposite of what was expected of him : a distinctly uncommercial venture ! That said , one can't very well overlook the director's approach to the material : it takes the form of a picaresque odyssey dealing with two men's pilgrimage from France to the burial site of a revered saint in Spain , and their many bizarre adventures along the way ; Paul Frankeur and Laurent Terzieff appear in the lead roles . They meet scores of people who either help , hinder or simply baffle them ? a few of these are actually historical figures ( such as the Marquis De Sade , incarnated by Michel Piccoli ) or even symbolic ones ( say , Pierre Clementi's brooding Satan ) ; most , however , are clergy ( even if one proves to be a fugitive from a lunatic asylum ! ) or common people with a vested interest in Theology ( for instance , the maitre d ' played by Julien Bertheau ? who , after imparting much spiritual wisdom to his ' congregation ' , denies food to the weary protagonists ) ! The journey is interestingly book-ended by the duo's meeting with , first , a man ( Alain Cuny ) who predicts they will each have a child and , then , a whore ( Delphine Seyrig ) who offers herself up for the task ; what ties the two scenes together is that both strangers supply the same cryptic names to the proposed offsprings i . e . " Ye Are Not Of The People " and " No More Mercy " ! Incidentally , the film's episodic structure would be adopted again by Bunuel ( indeed , it's improved upon ) in two subsequent films ? both sublime and uproarious ? namely THE DISCREET CHARM OF THE BOURGEOISIE ( 1972 ) and THE PHANTOM OF LIBERTY ( 1974 ) ; in fact , one could say that these three films comprise a trilogy whose loosely interrelated narratives ( in which , literally , anything goes ) basically encompass all of Bunuel's many and varied concerns over the years . THE MILKY WAY is certainly the most intellectual of the director's works , but it's all stylishly deployed ( he'd retain the deceptively glossy look of BELLE DE JOUR , for which some would subsequently accuse him of selling out [ ! ] , throughout all his remaining efforts ) and undeniably hilarious for those not offended by blasphemous irreverence . Some more of the film's indelible images involve : Frankeur thinking of himself as Jesus about to shave off the trademark beard and being dissuaded from doing so by Mary ( Edith Scob ) ; Bernard Verley , then , is endearing as a thoroughly commonplace ( if snobbish ) Christ ? his chilling last words ( taken from St . Matthew's Gospel ) , that he came to cause discord within the family unit and that woe befall anyone who loves somebody else more than him , must constitute one of the most wicked finales to any film ! ; Terzieff's casual swearword costing them a lift by an ultra-conservative driver ; his own jinxed nature ( wishing a man who has bypassed them to die horribly in a road accident , which happens soon after ) , ditto when daring God to strike him with lightning and being amazed by the practically instant reply from on high ; later , during a school activity in which little children are indoctrinated in religious intolerance , Terzieff also loudly imagines a group of revolutionaries ( the events of May ' 68 were still vivid in people's minds ) executing the Pope ? played by Bunuel himself ! ? via firing squad . Incidentally , the director's own voice is heard ? reciting a prayer in Latin ! ? on the radio of the aforementioned burning car ; in the same vein , co-scriptwriter Jean-Claude Carriere ? a regular Bunuel collaborator ? makes an infrequent appearance before the cameras as a decadent bishop presiding over an orgy in the forest ( another sequence that is exclusively in Latin ) . Two more stalwart presences from the Surrealist master's canon are Claudio Brook , playing another high-ranking church official exhuming the body of the saint ? to whom our heroes ( and , we are told , thousands every year ) have come from afar to pay tribute ? so as to excommunicate him in view of facts which have only just come to the fore ( ! ) , and Georges Marchal , seen dueling for his steadfast beliefs , but the point of the discussion is so muddled that it's soon forgotten by the participants ? by the way , a crucified nun is also prominently featured in this scene ! For the record , this film contains one of Bunuel's most famous dictums ( spoken by an undefined character during a transcendental sermon by a particularly insistent priest ) , namely " My hatred of Science and Technology almost brings me to the absurdity of a belief in God " ! According to the extras on the Criterion DVD ( these include an elaborate trailer , an introduction by Carriere , an interesting interview with noted film critic Ian Christie , and a 37-minute featurette which is given its due elsewhere ) , the conception for the script came at the 1967 Venice Film Festival after a screening of Jean-Luc Godard's LA CHINOISE , the Nouvelle Vague exponent's full-blown induction into the realm of Political Cinema . Incidentally , it's also said here that THE MILKY WAY garnered the best reviews of Bunuel's entire career !
THE CONFORMIST { Extended Version } ( Bernardo Bertolucci , 1970 )	I had watched this just once before and that was some 13 years ago on Italian TV ? but I was surprised by how much of it I could still remember ( considering its low-key and character-driven nature ) ! A much-requested title for DVD release , Paramount has come through with a satisfying " Special Edition " . The film itself is difficult but required viewing : as with all of Bertolucci's work during this period , it's politically-motivated ? with Jean-Louis Trintignant's ambiguous lead character virtually emerging as a symbol for our turbulent times ; it remains the director's best film and , along with Jean-Luc Godard's CONTEMPT ( 1963 ) , is also the most successful cinematic adaptation of an Alberto Moravia novel . Curiously enough , the address given for Professor Quadri's Parisian residence was actually the one where Godard himself lived at the time ? so the film can be read as a metaphor for Bertolucci's own disenchantment with Godard's current film-making policy , having abandoned mainstream cinema for a more didactic approach ! Bertolucci had also named Max Ophuls , Josef von Sternberg and Orson Welles as his idols and , indeed , the mise-en-scene of THE CONFORMIST is generally comparable to theirs in its operatic assurance : the detail and texture of Vittorio Storaro's cinematography and Ferdinando Scarfiotti's production design is at once exquisite and impeccable , while Franco Arcalli's inspired editing smoothly binds together episodes from the lead character's present life ( as a Fascist agent assigned to eliminate his former teacher ) and his equally secretive past ( where he had killed a homosexual seducer ) ? and it's all beautifully underscored by the haunting music of Georges Delerue ( who , incidentally , was also responsible for CONTEMPT ) . Most impressive among the cast were Trintignant , of course , but also Dominique Sanda ( in perhaps her most significant role ) and Gastone Moschin ( who adds a welcome dash of humor to the generally heavy-going proceedings as the hero's baffled yet dogged partner ) . The film's highlights are certainly the tango sequence between Sanda and Stefania Sandrelli ( which , obviously , anticipates Bertolucci's subsequent ? and most ? controversial film ) and the Quadri assassinations set against the beautiful but unforgiving snowy landscapes . This " Extended Version " restores a rather irrelevant sequence ( once thought lost ) of a party given by a group of blind Fascists in honor of Trintignant's marriage . As for the DVD supplements : while an Audio Commentary with Bertolucci himself would have been a desirable commodity , Laurent Bouzereau's 3-part featurette ( totaling some 38 minutes and comprised mainly of separate contributions from the writer / director and Vittorio Storaro ) more than makes up for this loss and is actually quite thorough ? analyzing all the various elements which have contributed towards making THE CONFORMIST one of the essential classics of World Cinema . For the record , I've still got a few Bertolucci films to catch up with ? I own LA COMMARE SECCA ( 1962 ) , LA LUNA ( 1979 ) and STEALING BEAUTY ( 1995 ) on DVD-R , DivX and VHS respectively ? but just as many that I need to revisit ? among them this film's predecessor / companion piece , THE SPIDER'S STRATAGEM ( 1970 ) ?
An impressive rendition of the New Testament ( out of )	Though I've had it ever since its release , for obvious reasons I decided to watch THE KING OF KINGS ( 1927 ) over the Easter period . Apart from CARMEN ( 1915 ) , this was the only De Mille film I've seen from the Silent era and , given the subject matter , I kind of expected an uneasy mix of ostentatious production values and heavy-handed sermonizing . While I got that in spades , resulting in my failing to keep a straight face virtually throughout the entire film , it was however counterbalanced by a surprisingly efficient pace ( for a 2 ½ - hour Silent picture about over-familiar events , I didn't find it draggy at all ) and quite a few impressive individual sequences : ? the first view of Jesus as a blind girl regains her sight ? the cleansing of Mary Magdalene from the 7 deadly sins ? a surprisingly tender and humorous touch as a little girl naively asks Jesus the " Miracle Maker " to mend her broken doll ? the ever-ambitious ( and sorely misguided ) Judas attempting to cast the devil out of a possessed child ? the tax-paying sequence when Christ asks Peter to catch a fish ? found to be carrying a gold coin in its mouth ? followed , amusingly , by the Romans themselves casting hooks in the river hoping to make a similar catch ! ? Christ leaning on a piece of wood and being distressed when realizing that it's a concealed cross , an omen of his own imminent fate ? the stoning of the adulteress with Christ exposing her accusers ' own failings by writing them down on the ground ( I had always wondered just what he was supposed to be scribbling , and this here explanation is most satisfactory methinks ) ? the Devil's temptation of Christ ( though it takes place in the temple rather than the desert ) ? the spectacular earthquake sequence following the Crucifixion , in which even the tree on which Judas hangs himself is engulfed ? the Resurrection sequence , and especially the final dissolve from Christ being surrounded by the Apostles to his ascent over a modern-city skylineNaturally , I preferred the " Roadshow " edition to the shorter " General Release " version ( ) which omits several of my favorite sequences and even changes them around a few times . However , I was disappointed that the latter also featured very brief scenes which were missing from the longer cut ( the picking of olives prior to the " Suffer little children " sequence , Caiaphas taking the blame for Christ's death before Pilate washes his hands , Jesus being offered a ' drink ' by the Romans as he is being prepared for the Crucifixion ) ? though these admittedly add very little to the proceedings , I would have preferred an uncut version of the film to two vaguely different ones ! The extras were mainly text-based and kind of light for a Criterion 2-Disc Set ( I skipped their typically bulky booklet for now , as going through them is always a time-consuming task ! ) though , of course , still quite interesting in themselves .
The Professionals ( 1966 )	I've watched this terrific action-packed Western a couple of times in the past via my full-frame VHS and therefore I'll definitely upgrade now that this release is on its way . I'm certainly glad that Columbia has proved me wrong because I never thought they'd do it given that it's already available as a barebones disc . Anyway , the fact that THE PROFESSIONALS is indeed something special is borne out by all the major awards ( listed below ) it was nominated for at the time of its original release and which are not commonly bestowed on this type of genre picture : Best Direction ( Richard Brooks ) ? Academy Awards ; Best Adapted Screenplay ( Richard Brooks ) ? Academy Awards ; Best Motion Picture Drama ? Golden Globes ; Best Direction ( Richard Brooks ) ? Directors Guild Of America ; Best Written American Drama ( Richard Brooks ) ? Writers Guild Of AmericaFeaturing a great cast ( Burt Lancaster , Lee Marvin , Robert Ryan , Jack Palance , Woody Strode , Ralph Bellamy and Claudia Cardinale ) , beautiful camera-work and a typically fine Maurice Jarre score , the film is highlighted by Richard Brooks ' witty script and Lancaster's boisterous performance . It's worth noting here that Brooks had already directed Lancaster towards his only ever Academy Award in ELMER GANTRY ( 1960 ) and that the former made two other excellent Westerns in his career ? THE LAST HUNT ( 1956 ) and BITE THE BULLET ( 1975 ) . While THE PROFESSIONALS rarely crops up when classic Westerns are discussed , I'd say it lies somewhere between THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN ( 1960 ) ? where a bunch of " experts " on the fringes of the law are recruited for a seemingly impossible mission ? and THE WILD BUNCH ( 1969 ) ? where these same people realize they're getting on in their years and ultimately find themselves out of touch with the times they're living in .
MEDIUM COOL ( Haskell Wexler , 1969 )	A brilliant film and a seminal one - a product by a major Hollywood studio handled in cinema-verite ' style ; besides , the various issues it raises - social , political and media-related - have scarcely been treated with such directness and power . The lack of star names in the cast ( Peter Boyle , who appears briefly , was not yet established and , even if he had debuted in John Huston's REFLECTIONS IN A GOLDEN EYE [ 1967 ] , lead Robert Forster's role was originally intended for John Cassavetes ) certainly helps sell its inherent documentary feel . Though , understandably , most meaningful to people who witnessed these turbulent times first-hand , and Americans in particular , despite its specific time-setting - Chicago 1968 ( partly shot at the actual Democrats convention site , the film proved prophetic because the script involved riots breaking out . . . which is what actually happened ! ) - many of its concerns are still very much with us ! ! Fascinating therefore if slightly overlong - the subplot involving Verna Bloom and Harold Blankenship feels a bit like padding at first ( and was actually what remained of a proposed film , with animal interest , about a poor country boy's adjustment to city life ! ) . . . but , ultimately , its point is made during the film's latter stages when Bloom goes to look for her missing son - creating an indelible image of a perplexed figure ( incongruously dressed in a bright yellow outfit ) getting embroiled in all the commotion hitting the streets at that same moment . This , however , results in a goof involving the unexplained presence very early on of Bloom ( already wearing the yellow dress but whose introduction proper in the film takes place quite a bit later ! ) at a cocktail party for members of the press - a sequence intended to immediately precede the riots but which was then pushed forward during editing , so as to deal straight off with the film's major theme of media responsibility ! The tragic yet ironic ending - presented as matter-of-factly as any of the news items covered by dispassionate TV cameraman Forster - is very effective . This is certainly renowned cinematographer Wexler's most significant directorial effort ; his camera-work ( some of it hand-held ) is simply incredible , as is Paul Golding's editing ( which must have been quite a headache and , in fact , he mentions in the Audio Commentary that several scenes remained on the cutting-room floor ; pity they weren't available for inclusion on the Paramount DVD - nor , apparently , were the rights to the 2001 documentary about the film , LOOK OUT HASKELL , IT'S REAL : THE MAKING OF ' MEDIUM COOL ' ! ) . Also essential to the unique texture of the film is the fantastic soundtrack ( mostly by Mike Bloomfield but also featuring songs by Frank Zappa , among others ) .
THE DESERT OF THE TARTARS ( Valerio Zurlini , 1976 )	This is the first Valerio Zurlini film I have watched and , ironically , it was his last ( and arguably most ambitious ) undertaking but which can hold its own alongside its contemporaries among the classics of World Cinema ; for the record , I also own THE GIRLS OF SAN FREDIANO ( 1954 ) and THE CAMP FOLLOWERS ( 1965 ) on VHS and had erased GIRL WITH A SUITCASE ( 1960 ) - without even watching it ! - in anticipation of its 2-Disc Set release by No Shame ( which incorporates Zurlini's VIOLENT SUMMER [ 1959 ] ) . Anyhow , THE DESERT OF THE TARTARS is practically an intellectual , existentialist version of " Beau Geste " in which very little actually happens during its 2 ½ hour running-time ( and , thus , may seem boring to the uninitiated ) but , for more adventurous film fans , however , it's a mesmerizing and truly evocative experience with a strong anti-war statement to make . Unsurprisingly perhaps , it is hardly ever shown on Italian TV - with the most recent occasion being on the very last day of my 3-month stay in Hollywood late last year , which meant that I had to miss it ( although I was already aware of No Shame's 2-Disc Set , which was released around the same time ) . The cast is made up of a once-in-a-lifetime roster of international film stars : Vittorio Gassman , Giuliano Gemma , Helmut Griem , Philippe Noiret ( who died last week , alas ) , Jacques Perrin ( who has the lead role and also did duty as one of the producers ) , Francisco Rabal , Fernando Rey , Laurent Terzieff , Jean-Louis Trintignant and Max von Sydow ! Incredibly , it's Gemma who stands out in a rare villainous turn as the sadistic Major - though Max von Sydow as the disgraced Captain and Vittorio Gassman as the ageing Commander of the Fort are quietly impressive in their own way . While the first half is deliberately-paced , eliciting its own particular ambiance and etching all the various characters , by comparison , the latter stages are somewhat rushed - as the years fly by and the fort changes its command several times , so as to bring the story to its main theme - that of the remote company , seen constantly drilling in the hope of an attack by enemy forces which , when it finally arrives , they seem incapable of dealing with adequately ! The beautiful cinematography of the splendid Iranian desert location ( with the interiors filmed in Rome ) is by Luciano Tovoli and Ennio Morricone's score , rendered in its entirety on the CD found in No Shame's SE DVD , is suitably majestic and melancholic . The supplements , then , aren't prolific but quite nicely done nevertheless - though only Tovoli's 35-minute interview goes into any real detail about the making of the film ( and even that includes copious references to his collaborations with other Italian masters such as Michelangelo Antonioni and Dario Argento ) .
FIRES ON THE PLAIN ( Kon Ichikawa , 1959 )	This is undoubtedly the most harrowing black-and-white war film that I've watched ; as a matter of fact , the only Western director during this time to remotely approach its level of intensity and sheer visceral power in his work was Samuel Fuller . By the way , I had attended a Kon Ichikawa retrospective at London's National Film Theatre in September 2002 , but only managed to catch some of his work made between 1960 and 1973 . The film is certainly as depressing as it's reputed to be ; however , it also displays welcome touches of black humor throughout - the ' dead ' man who wakes up to answer a querying soldier and promptly ' dies ' again , the deliciously ironic shoe exchange sequence , a moribund eccentric telling the famished hero which part of the body he should eat , etc . Incidentally , the script was written by a woman - Natto Wada , the director's own wife ! Ichikawa is a versatile and prolific film-maker whose reputation may not be as high as it was during his peak years ( 1956-65 ) , but his direction here is often striking - the startling pre-credits sequence ( the hero is violently rebuked by his superior officer for being discharged from hospital earlier than expected ! ) , the death of a surrendering Japanese at the hands of a gun-toting Philippine woman , the bombing of a hospital ( with the medical staff running away to save themselves , leaving the wounded soldiers behind to crawl out of the shack at their own limited pace ) , the automated march in the rain of the disillusioned soldiers ( which also involves the afore-mentioned business with the shoes that , actually , recalls a similar scene in ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT [ 1930 ] ) , a hill littered with the bodies of soldiers attempting to climb it , the finale , etc . Surely one of the film's major assets is the stunning cinematography of the unforgiving and desolate muddy landscape . The film is notorious for treating the taboo subject of cannibalism ( almost 10 years before it became a staple of horror movies ) but Ichikawa's approach is not only subtle but highly effective : the flesh is actually referred to as " monkey meat " , while the hero is seen partaking only once ( and promptly spits out the piece along with most of his decaying teeth ! ) ; conversely , when the weak underling soldier ( played by Mickey Curtis who , despite his name , was a Japanese pop idol of the time ! ) rabidly indulges , the ground nearby is splashed with blood . In the supplements , Ichikawa remembers that Method-practicing lead actor Eiji Funakoshi ( whose portrayal is unforgettable , by the way ) arrived on the set at starvation point - with the result that production was forced to shut down for two weeks until he recuperated ! Donald Richie's perceptive interview favors the nihilism of the film over the underlying patriotism behind such gut-wrenching recent Hollywood fare as SAVING PRIVATE RYAN ( 1998 ) . FIRES ON THE PLAIN is universally considered to be one of its director's top efforts and , out of the several films of Ichikawa I've watched , the closest to it in spirit are THE BURMESE HARP ( 1956 ; another character-driven war film but with a spiritual tone , and which is also available on DVD from Criterion ) and ENJO aka CONFLAGRATION ( 1958 ; which was actually given a limited theatrical showing locally , as part of a foreign-film week , a couple of years ago ) . Personally , I also have a particular soft spot for the director's stunningly stylized color extravaganza , AN ACTOR'S REVENGE ( 1963 ) , which I've actually caught twice at the NFT in 1999 and the afore-mentioned 2002 retrospective .
JUDEX ( Georges Franju , 1963 )	I never had the opportunity to catch up with this one during my childhood and , for a long time , I had to make do with an intriguing still of the lead character in a large bird mask and holding what appears to be a dead dove . Three years ago , I managed to get hold of a VHS copy duped from what , reportedly , is the only French-language version ( an extremely fuzzy 16mm print with barely-legible English subtitles ) in existence ! Its dire condition had affected my initial judgment and I didn't enjoy the film as much as I hoped I would . Then , two years later , Flicker Alley released the original 12-episode Silent serial of 1916-17 by Louis Feuillade ( whose length totals over 5 hours ) and I decided to try the Franju film again as a companion piece ; this time , I was determined to overlook the deficiencies of the print and just go along for the ride - and , sure enough , it proved to be a much more rewarding experience ! This third viewing , then , came by way of an Italian-dubbed ' variant ' I recorded off TV which is in much better shape and , despite being apparently trimmed ( 95 mins . against the official 104 ) , I opted to keep it as the former is a real chore to sit through ! Anyway , much as I admired the already wonderful Feuillade version ( which , for the record , I also rate ) , I found the later film - to my mind , an immensely satisfying compression of it - to be even superior because of its genuine touches of poetry and magic , even surrealism ( such as the afore-mentioned costume party scene in which Judex - already hiding his true identity under an alias and his features behind layers of make-up - turns up donning a symbolic pigeon mask ) . In fact , the title role is played by real-life magician Channing Pollock which allows his celebrated act to be cleverly incorporated into the narrative ! I would venture to say that Franju's JUDEX is one of the best remakes ever made - fascinating , exciting and imaginative . The timing of its release ( coming immediately prior to the espionage boom of the 1960s ) ensured that the film also be viewed as a fond farewell to the days of old-fashioned crime ( though gadgetry - soon to go overboard , i . e . when the James Bond extravaganzas descended to the level of a comic-strip - is still present , such as the mirror which allows Judex to peek at his captive and even communicate with him by writing on the glass panel itself ) . For all his limitations as an actor , Pollock displays all the stoicism of the typical superhero and carries a genuine screen presence . Besides , Francine Berge ' has to be one of the most captivating villainesses to ever grace the screen - utilizing several disguises in the realization of her evil schemes , none more fetching than the skin-tight black outfit ( which she also sports when engaging in the climactic roof-top fight with an equestrienne , played by Sylva Koscina in a splendid cameo ) . Franju regular Edith Scob , then , is the doe-eyed heroine and there's also amiable support from the characters of the detective Cocantin and a resourceful boy who eventually becomes his sidekick . Another of the film's major assets is a subtly haunting score from Maurice Jarre ( the last of eight collaborations with Franju , among them the latter's masterwork EYES WITHOUT A FACE [ 1960 ] ) . The film - co-written by Jacques Champreux ( grandson of Louis Feuillade ! ) and produced by Robert De Nesle ( later associated with the dubious work of Jess Franco ! ) - is a veritable connoisseur's treat and a sheer delight from beginning to end . Franju later made the similar SHADOWMAN ( 1974 ; in which Champreux himself took the lead role ! ) but , by this time , such escapist fare was strictly old hat and , in any case , the result only worked in fits and starts . Another film in the same vein - which I own on VHS and I've been meaning to catch up with for some time - is the Russian-made 4 ½ hour Silent serial , MISS MEND ( 1926 ) .
THEY MADE ME A FUGITIVE ( Alberto Cavalcanti , 1947 )	This is a relatively rare example of a British film noir , but one which can hold its own alongside the more celebrated American variety . Director Cavalcanti's background in documentaries certainly served him in good stead here , bringing complete authenticity to the situations and settings . Still , thanks to Otto Heller's outstanding camera-work and lighting , he manages a number of strikingly cinematic visuals ( for instance , the scene where heroine Sally Gray is beaten up by chief villain Griffith Jones ) . It features a splendid cast , all of whom deliver excellent performances : Trevor Howard is an unusual hero-type but totally credible ; lovely leading lady Sally Gray may come off a bit too good to be true ( she initially commits herself to the framed Howard merely because her gangster boyfriend has jilted her for the latter's own fiancée ! ) but she elicits all the petite sex appeal of a Veronica Lake ( meanwhile her love / hate banter with Howard evokes memories of the Robert Donat / Madeleine Carroll pairing from Hitchcock's THE 39 STEPS [ 1935 ] ) ; Griffith Jones is a suave yet ruthless leader of a black-market ring ( but who gets his just desserts in particularly gruesome fashion ) ; Mary Merrall is Jones ' elderly associate , whose level-headedness and experience keeps the violent gangster in check ; a young Ballard Berkeley is a sympathetic Scotland Yard man , but who doesn't think twice about using Howard as bait to capture the entire gang ; Peter Bull turns up for a bit as a police informer . The general gloominess ( a mainstay of thrillers emanating from the post-war era ) is leavened somewhat by its constant flurry of hard-boiled dialogue courtesy of screenwriter Noel Langley . The terrific climax is set inside the gang's ' business ' office - a funeral parlor , amusingly named " The Valhalla Undertaking Co . " . Still , perhaps my favorite scene in the entire film is Howard's surreal encounter with the zombie-like Vida Hope - in whose household he stumbles while on the run ; she turns out to be deranged , and even tries to talk our hero into murdering her alcoholic husband ( Maurice Denham ) ! As is typical of old films released on DVD by Kino , the quality of the print and transfer leave a lot to be desired - but one has to be grateful still , because otherwise gems such as this one would remain unavailable indefinitely . . .
Investigation Of A Citizen Above Suspicion ( Elio Petri , 1970 )	Apart from the film's own intriguing theme and interesting credentials , I had always been keen on catching this one because it had defeated Luis Bunuel's magnificent TRISTANA ( 1970 ) for the title of the Best Foreign-Language Film at the Oscars ! However , the path that ultimately led me to it was quite thorny : I first caught the start of it during a rare Italian TV prime-time screening in the mid-1980s ; then , after dropping off the radar for decades , it turned up again on late-night Italian TV but the reception was terrible so I could not tape it ; later still , having finally acquired it on my PC , the hard disk went bust before I had a chance to make myself a copy ? so that , I had to get hold of it ( via the same channels ) all over again when the PC was back on its feet ! ! Even so , a whole year passed before I actually sat down to watch it ( on the heels of two other Elio Petri-Gian Maria Volonte ' films ) . INVESTIGATION OF A CITIZEN ABOVE SUSPICION won a clutch of other international awards , so it is not all that surprising to see it emerge triumphant at the Oscars as well and , after seeing it for myself , I cannot say I was displeased by that fact . In short , the film is a veritable masterpiece : brilliantly-made and utterly fascinating , albeit making for typically demanding viewing ( particularly during its latter stages ) . As can be gleaned from the title , the plot revolves around a crime ( actually , the murder of his mistress ) committed by a highly-respected public official : ironically , the culprit is none other than the exiting Chief of the Homicide Squad ( Gian Maria Volonte ' who is on fire throughout as the megalomaniac protagonist ) ? on his way out to becoming the Head of Political Intelligence ? and which , of course , he has the duty to investigate himself ! This he does with complete confidence and not a little trickery ( destroying and / or planting evidence , deviating the path of the investigation but at the same time admitting to his new superior of having known the victim , etc ) . His unusual relationship with the latter ( sensuously played by Florinda Bolkan ) , then , is seen via intermittent flashbacks : she is a libertine ( much is made of the fact that she possesses no underwear ! ) , initially getting in touch with Volonte ' almost in jest and , eventually , playing the willing murdered party ( ! ) in re-enactments of crimes of passion solved by him throughout his illustrious career ( of which he , unashamedly , also keeps photographic records ) . Other important figures to feature in the narrative are : Arturo Dominici ( from Mario Bava's BLACK Sunday [ 1960 ] ) as Volonte''s long-suffering successor ; a young student radical who lives in the same apartment block as Bolkan and of whom Volonte ' was jealous ; and Salvo Randone ( like the star , a Petri regular ) as a confused old man to whom the pompous anti-hero actually confesses his guilt in the matter and bullies into turning him over to the Police ? but the latter , naturally , is shocked to see him lording it at the Homicide bureau ! For all the social and political relevance of Petri and frequent collaborator Ugo Pirro's Oscar-nominated script ? culminating in a delicious double ending ( Volonte''s quasi-surreal exoneration by his colleagues , after he professes to have committed the ultimate sacrifice for the good of Established Law & Order , is revealed to have been mere wish-fulfillment on his part ? with the true development of the facts cleverly left to the audience members ' own judgment ) ? the element which has perhaps been mainly responsible for securing the film its longevity is Ennio Morricone's celebrated bizarre ( i . e . half-urgent , half-playful ) score which definitely ranks among his finest works , and that's saying a lot !
SILVER LODE ( Allan Dwan , 1954 )	What could easily have been just another low-budget Western oater or , worse still , the poor man's HIGH NOON ( 1952 ) , is turned by excellent scripting ( atypically the work of a woman ! ) and direction into a true gem of the genre during its golden age . In fact , the film wears its anti-Red Scare intentions proudly on its sleeve by actually naming its chief villain ( Dan Duryea in formidable form ) McCarthy and making him an outlaw posing as a fake U . S . Marshal ! Reformed gunfighter hero John Payne ( in his first of four movies for veteran director Dwan ) has his 4th of July wedding ( to local belle Lizabeth Scott ) disrupted by the arrival in town of Duryea and his men ( including Stuart Whitman and Harry Carey Jr . ) claiming to have a warrant for his arrest for killing Duryea's brother and absconding with the sum of $20 , 000 . So far so conventional plot-wise but what is remarkable here is the way that the film-makers chose to employ the townspeople who are constantly following the protagonists around the streets of Silver Lode , at first forcibly siding with Payne ( to the point of holding Duryea et al at gunpoint ) but , with time , being swayed by the latter's lies and an unfortunate series of events that lead them to believe Payne guilty of murdering their sheriff ( Emile Meyer ) and one of the marshals , as well as wounding Scott's hot-headed brother . Aiding Payne , apart from the unwavering Scott ( of course ) , is his ex-flame , sultry saloon gal ( Dolores Moran , the wife of producer Benedict Bogeaus and whose last film this proved to be ) who spits one-liner put-downs to hero , villain and everyone in between ; I really liked her character and , apparently , so did Dwan because he opted to close the film on the image of her running frantically clenching the all-important telegraphic confirmation ( Duryea's men had intuitively cut the lines beforehand ) of Payne's claims of innocence . However , in view of the film being a thinly-veiled allegory on the ongoing witch-hunts , it is a telling comment on the relative nature of truth that the girls had already won the day by forcing the gullible telegraph official to write down a false reply . The expected climactic confrontation between Payne and Duryea , then , takes place inside a bell tower ? with the latter's bullet ultimately ricocheting on himself in God-like retribution ? making for a doubly ironic ending to a film ( beautifully shot in color by the great John Alton ) that had held its audience entranced for all of 77 breathless minutes .
INVASION ( Alan Bridges , 1965 )	This low-budget British sci-fi outing is so rare that I have had to make do with a copy sporting forced French subtitles for this first viewing ! I was glad to confirm that the film's solid reputation was well-deserved ; plot-wise , it is not dissimilar from two other notable genre entries from this country which I caught quite recently ? namely UNEARTHLY STRANGER ( 1963 ) and THE NIGHT CALLER ( 1965 ) . I recall being particularly impressed with the former and , actually , I feel that INVASION is very much on a par with it ; incidentally , the title is a misnomer since the aliens here are actually stranded on earth and their mission is to recapture an escaped prisoner they were escorting rather than occupation ! Even so , we do get a show of their ( typically advanced ) technology and , needless to say , there are human casualties involved ; to be fair , though , we never learn of their true intent until quite late into the game and , consequently , the carefully-built suspense and smart handling throughout ( this was director Bridges ' feature-film debut ) makes for consistently satisfying viewing . One rather clever notion has the aliens requiring to physically touch an Earthling before they can speak our language ? though , of course , no explanation is given as to why they happen to have an Oriental complexion ! In the long run , the modest scale of the production ( the setting is largely confined to a hospital and the woods nearby , with events unfolding over just one night ) works in its favor , making the central concept both gripping and persuasive . Hero Edward Judd was something of a fixture in British sci-fi around this time : his rugged good looks and evident intelligence were always good value for money in these fantastic surroundings ; leading lady Valerie Gearon does well by her role too , familiar character actor Anthony Sharp has a prominent ( if rather unlikely ) role early on in the proceedings and , obviously , the intervention by the military is a requisite in this type of film . Among the more visually striking moments are a shot where a door opening leads into a doll-house , with the camera then panning up to reveal the actual room , and a car very realistically crashing ( into the invisible barrier created by the aliens in order to isolate the area ) with its driver spurting out of the windscreen . As to flaws , these are indeed negligible ? but I suppose I should mention the fact that one of the alien women unaccountably disappears during the film's last third , while the climax is a bit rushed ( if still quite unique : the pursuing alien deliberately crashes her spaceship into a fleeing rocket bearing her quarry ! ) .
The Kiss Of The Vampire ( 1963 )	As I lay watching this film , I was reminded all over again why Horror is my favorite cinematic genre : despite the absence in the cast of any major stars from the Hammer stable , this well-directed shocker is arguably one of their best efforts . The film is bracketed by two bravura sequences : the opening scene at the graveyard where an obviously drunk and distraught Professor Zimmer ( the Van Helsing figure here vividly essayed by Clifford Evans as a boorish and cynical man ) unceremoniously plunges a spade into the wooden coffin of his dead daughter thus releasing her soul from the curse of the undead ; and the startling climactic destruction of the vampiric cult at the hands of ( irony of ironies ) some admittedly fake-looking vampire bats ! As usual with this type of film , the young leads ( Edward De Souza and Jennifer Daniel ) are merely adequate but the film benefits immensely from a deliciously villainous turn by Noel Willman as Dr . Ravna , a worthy Dracula stand-in , whose soothing , calm composure and tonality starkly contrast with the more energetic antics of a Christopher Lee , but exude just as much evil . Although judging from the IMDb synopsis , the added-for-TV scenes ( for an alternate version of the film entitled KISS OF EVIL ) are nothing to write home about , I would still like to have seen them included as a supplement to the DVD - although apparently that would have been too much to expect from Universal . . .
LITTLE BIG MAN ( Arthur Penn , 1970 )	Having first watched this in my childhood , my belated re-acquaintance with it didn't perhaps live up to expectations , but it's an undeniably impressive film nonetheless . Apart from a couple of sober sequences of Indians being massacred by General Custer and his men , the film pretty much treats the Old West in a humorous way - trashing many a myth in the process ! The Indians refer to themselves as the " Human Beings " , and it's clear where Penn's sympathies lie ; as a matter of fact , Chief Dan George was nominated for the Best Supporting Actor Oscar ( and deservedly so ) for his wonderful characterization of the old Indian sage who takes Dustin Hoffman under his wing . The ' white ' cast is impeccable as well , however - Hoffman ( who gets to age to a 121 ! ) and Faye Dunaway are in top form , but it's the character actors who really shine : Martin Balsam as the quack medicine salesman ( who loses a limb every time he appears ! ) , Jeff Corey as Wild Bill Hickock , and especially Richard Mulligan as a lunatic's idea ( ! ) of Custer . There were other films prior to this one which had dealt with the General's life - Raoul Walsh's THEY DIED WITH THEIR BOOTS ON ( 1941 ) , with Errol Flynn , and Robert Siodmak's CUSTER OF THE WEST ( 1968 ) , with Robert Shaw - but , needless to say , their viewpoint had been far more traditional ( and glamorous ) ! For another idiosyncratic look at Custer , look no further than the typical Marco Ferreri oddity that is DON'T TOUCH THE WHITE WOMAN ! ( 1974 ) in which Custer is played by , of all people , Marcello Mastroianni ! Still , to get back to LITTLE BIG MAN , the ' realistic ' widescreen cinematography and a simple yet evocative score emerge as equally vital elements in the cementing of Penn's vision on the screen . The film arrived when the genre was already on a downward spiral , following the Spaghetti Western boom which flooded - and , in the process , gradually eradicated - the market . For this reason , most examples from the U . S . during this period were less nostalgic and opted to show the Old West , more or less , as it really was ( these were eventually dubbed " Revisionist " ) . By doing so , they were subtly commenting on the precarious state of modern America : for instance , the Indian massacre here ( a similar one was depicted in Ralph Nelson's excessively violent SOLDIER BLUE [ 1970 ] ) was a direct reference to the 1968 My Lai incident which occurred during the Vietnam War ! My viewing of LITTLE BIG MAN will , hopefully , result in my finally catching up with Robert Altman's equally unconventional BUFFALO BILL AND THE INDIANS , OR SITTING BULL'S HISTORY LESSON ( 1976 ) - which I've had , taped off Italian TV , for an uncommonly long time now !
RIDE THE PINK HORSE ( Robert Montgomery , 1947 )	By stepping behind the camera for the first time with the Philip Marlowe mystery LADY IN THE LAKE ( 1947 ) , Robert Montgomery showed that , apart from being a likable actor , he was also an inventive film-maker . That opinion is more than consolidated in his second dual effort as star-director that was made in quick succession and on similar noir lines . Driven by a cracking script by Ben Hecht and Charles Lederer , the movie tells of our world-weary ex-GI hero's attempt to avenge his buddy's death at the hands of vicious racketeer Fred Clark ? by extorting $30 , 000 in exchange for an incriminating personal cheque , or else turning him over to the federal authorities already on his heels in his Mexican hideout . Every performance is equally top-notch : from Montgomery himself ? upon his arrival at the bus depot , nonchalantly affixing the all-important locker key stuck into a piece of chewing gum to a directions board or , after receiving a serious knife-wound in the back , deliriously calling on his opponent to confront him all over again ? to Thomas Gomez's Oscar-nominated turn as the friendly carousel barker ; from Fred Clark's sleek , hearing-aid sporting villain to Art Smith's sympathetic government agent ; and from Wanda Hendrix ( soon to be , albeit very briefly , Mrs . Audie Murphy in real life ) as the enigmatic local girl who sticks by the hero's side like glue , to Andrea King as Clark's sultry accomplice seducing Montgomery within an inch of his life . Unjustly denied greater exposure among film buffs by its unavailability on DVD , it has thankfully been regularly shown on TCM USA ( which is where the copy I watched was sourced from ) ; it was subsequently remade for TV as THE HANGED MAN ( 1964 ) by another noir expert , Don Siegel , and featured quite a remarkable cast : Robert Culp , Edmond O'Brien , Vera Miles , J . Carroll Naish , Norman Fell , Seymour Cassel , Al Lettieri , Gene Raymond and Edgar Bergen .
THE COMPANY OF WOLVES ( Neil Jordan , 1984 )	I had been underwhelmed ? or , more precisely , baffled ? by this film on first viewing and would probably have rated it no higher than ( Leonard Maltin was even less impressed than me ) ! However , having just read its enthusiastic entry in the " Time Out Film Guide " ( by Gilbert Adair , no less ) , I decided to purchase the R2 SE DVD when it was recently discounted at Play . com ? and I'm extremely glad that I did because I loved the film this time around , feeling that it's almost the equal ? if a different animal altogether , no pun intended ? of my favorite " wolf man " picture ever , AN American WEREWOLF IN London ( 1981 ) ! But I've said that often enough ( most recently in my review of another contemporaneous werewolf film , SILVER BULLET [ 1985 ] ) ? so , back to the matter at hand . . . This has to be the screen's most original treatment of lycanthropy ? though director Jordan insists that it isn't a horror movie and who , on completing the film , was afraid that he had made a picture whose appeal was limited to teenage girls and wolves ! ? with rampant symbolism throughout ( having over-sized toys attempt to sexually assault the elder sister of leading lady Sarah Patterson , in the latter's dreams , is as effective a metaphor for a teenage girl's coming-of-age as any I've seen ! ) and a distinctly surrealist perspective . As per the accompanying Audio Commentary , the film had a myriad influences : Grimm's Fairy Tales ( some of which are even integrated into the narrative , as adapted by Angela Carter from her own stories ) , Gustave Dore ' paintings , the films of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger and , most surprisingly of all , the work of Polish directors Wojchiech J . Has ( whose THE SARAGOSSA MANUSCRIPT [ 1965 ] inspired the film's tale-within a tale-within a tale structure ) and Walerian Borowczyk ( particularly LA BETE [ 1975 ] ' s similarity to the middle story here , involving a ravaged girl who turns out to be a witch and disrupts an aristocratic wedding by turning the gathering into werewolves ) ? plus more obvious ones like the German Expressionist films , as well as the Universal , Hammer and AIP's " Corman Poe " horror classics . Despite the low-budget on hand , the film's production values ( cinematography , lighting , art direction , costume design ) are splendid and richly evocative ; besides , it features George Fenton's lush and memorable score ? which , along with the forest setting , reminded me quite a bit of LEGEND ( 1985 ; and which was filming simultaneously with THE COMPANY OF WOLVES ! ) ? not to mention brilliant animatronic work and make-up effects by Christopher Tucker , highlighting various methods of transformation ( all equally spectacular ) and two effective beheadings . The cast is notable , too : Sarah Patterson ( one of the most beguiling teenage performers I've seen , whose acting career unfortunately got stalled practically immediately ? though Jordan says he has stayed in contact with her all these years ! ) , Angela Lansbury ( perfectly cast as a vaguely sinister , tale-spinning Grandmother ? with a live fox-fur as her familiar ? and who's featured most prominently in a re-enactment of the " Little Red Riding Hood " fable ) , David Warner , Micha Bergese ( his unusual appearance and background as a professional dancer suiting the physicality of his role as The Huntsman ) , Graham Crowden , Stephen Rea ( a staple in Neil Jordan movies ) , Brian Glover ( who was also in AN American WEREWOLF IN London ! ) and Terence Stamp ( stepping in for original choice Andy Warhol , in an uncredited 30-second bit as the Devil ? perhaps the film's most enigmatic sequence ? incongruously turning up in the forest , fitted with a suit and tie , in a Rolls Royce driven by a blonde Patterson , herself dressed up as a chauffeur ! ) . The film's classy visuals are beautifully rendered by the remastered DVD transfer ? though the audio was relatively weak in comparison and should , perhaps , have been boosted a little as well . The major supplement is an engaging and very informative Audio Commentary with Jordan ; however , having just viewed the film prior to listening to it , this proved a bit too much to take in one sitting ! The wonderful DVD artwork and reasonable insert booklet were a nice touch , too . I've been impressed by the majority of Neil Jordan's work ? including his other super-stylish ' horror ' effort , INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE : THE VAMPIRE CHRONICLES ( 1994 ) ? but I have no qualms , at this stage , about singling out THE COMPANY OF WOLVES as probably his best film , certainly the most intriguing and satisfying ( on almost every level ) ! I'll be watching his latest offering BREAKFAST ON PLUTO ( 2005 ) imminently , and might also get to WE'RE NO ANGELS ( 1989 ) , IN DREAMS ( 1999 ) , THE END OF THE AFFAIR ( 1999 ) and THE GOOD THIEF ( 2002 ) soon enough . . . One final thought : I have to say that , despite the overall bad reputation cinema got during the 80s , I own quite a few DVDs from this era ? in fact , far more than in subsequent decades , when the medium was supposed to have seen a definite resurgence ( though this was certainly not the case with the horror genre ) !
LOVE WITH THE PROPER STRANGER ( Robert Mulligan , 1963 )	Watched out of necessity rather than choice ( due to limitations inherent in my DVD recorder's system ) , I really did not expect to be bowled over by this one ? not least because I had been underwhelmed by the subsequent collaboration between director Mulligan and leading man Steve McQueen , BABY THE RAIN MUST FALL ( 1965 ) , earlier this year ? but I was . That said , I knew of its reputation as one of the best showcases for both McQueen and co-star Natalie Wood ( she even received an Oscar nod for her work here ) ? and I certainly agree , going so far as to say that they were probably never better . In essence , this is MARTY ( 1955 ) for a younger and more reckless generation ( though the protagonists , in this case , are anything but " dogs " ) ? demonstrating the same feeling for the place ( New York ) and a particular section of its people ( Italian immigrants ) . The narrative ( accompanied by a lovely , yet sturdy , Elmer Bernstein score ) basically resolves itself in a series of extended scenes set in domestic , working or urban environments ? with the most unusual being the opening sequence at a ballroom-cum-employment agency where musician McQueen hustles his way to the odd engagement and , later , when he and Wood hide from her overprotective brothers inside his family's dilapidated dwelling ( where Jack Jones is even briefly heard crooning the film's title tune ) . In this respect , plaudits must go to Arnold Schulman's exceptional Oscar-nominated script : it is no coincidence that his name atypically precedes even that of the supporting cast ! Incidentally , while I included the film among my " Drama " viewing ( involving , after all , the attempt to abort an unwanted pregnancy borne of a one-night stand ) , it features almost as much comedy ? that , being just as well-observed , adds another layer to the intended realism . Wood's relationship with her possessive family is especially entertaining but also her efforts to dodge , and later withstand , gawky admirer Tom Bosley ( in an impressive debut ) ? whose equivalent in McQueen's life is played by Edie Adams : the former , in fact , has no qualms about taking ' new ' girlfriend Wood to her flat while she is away at work ! Also , though the latter stages descend into repetitive confrontations between the stars , this does eventually pay off in a hilarious finale ? with McQueen deciding to conform to Wood's idealized view of love ( even if it means embarrassing himself in public ) rather than lose her . In conclusion , I had tried to get hold of this one back in January to be included in my planned retrospective to commemorate the recently deceased Mulligan : while that attempt did not pan out at the time , I happened again upon it just this week , obviously managing now to acquire a copy of the film ; for the record , I still have a couple more of the director's efforts to check out ( both also delayed for some reason from that initial tribute ) i . e . THE GREAT IMPOSTOR ( 1961 ) and BLOODBROTHERS ( 1978 ) .
TOPPER ( Norman Z . McLeod , 1937 )	I had first caught this on late-night Italian TV in its original language ( and with forced subtitles ) but , having missed the first 15 minutes back then , I'm now counting this as a first viewing . Produced by famed Laurel & Hardy ' discoverer ' Hal Roach , it's small wonder that the score by their regular composer Marvin Hatley here recalls those for the comic duo's films but , in spite of the occasional lull , TOPPER otherwise displays much of the wit and sophistication prevalent during the heyday of Screwball Comedy . The film , based on a Thorne Smith novel ( he'd also provide the source for Rene ' Clair's marvelous I MARRIED A WITCH [ 1942 ] ) , has a lot to answer for : not merely the fact that it spawned two official sequels , a TV series in the 1950s , was itself remade as a TV-movie in the 1970s and is apparently being reworked for Steve Martin ( ! ) as we speak ? but it also launched Cary Grant's career as an exponent of zany comedy . Besides , it even took the supernatural into mainstream cinema ( having previously been the prerogative of the horror genre ) and , with this in mind , the special effects ? similar to those in Universal's Invisible Man series of films ? still hold up very well more than 70 years later . Roland Young ( in an Oscar-nominated performance ) is the titular henpecked banker whose wild friends ( Grant and Constance Bennett ) are killed in a road accident ; their mischievous antics while alive recall those of the drunken revelers of James Whale's splendid REMEMBER LAST NIGHT ? ( 1935 ) and , unable to enter the gates of Heaven without at least having done one good deed , they take it upon themselves to give Topper a good time ? leading , of course , to no end of complications and misunderstandings for the meek middle-aged man . The supporting cast is equally well-chosen and delightful : Billie Burke as Topper's snobbish wife , Alan Mowbray as his equally stiff but helpful butler and Eugene Palette as the flustered hotel detective to which the narrative reverts for the last third of the film . In fact , this section is probably the film's comic highlight where Grant , Bennett and Young meet again as porter the elevator boy from the couple's hotel ( an encounter which had already cost him the previous job ! ) . P . S . The copy I acquired played fine on my cheaper DVD player model until the 95th minute where it froze and wouldn't proceed further ! However , when I inserted the disc into my PC's DVD-ROM , it played without a glitch ! ! Supernatural happenstance or what ?
THE GO-BETWEEN ( Joseph Losey , 1971 )	Richly-detailed period romantic drama , told more or less from a child's viewpoint but treated with the maturity one has come to expect from a Losey film ( the main plot is interspersed with fragmented clips of the boy as an old man - played by Sir Michael Redgrave - revisiting the aristocratic country estate where the majority of the narrative takes place ) . Though the characters are rather swamped by their surroundings ( the two leads are particularly subdued ) - as captured by the gleaming cinematography of Gerry Fisher and the elegant décor of Carmen Dillon - the film allows for several good performances from a sturdy cast , including Dominic Guard ( as the boy Leo who acts as messenger in the impossible love between upper-class Julie Christie and commoner Alan Bates , both of whom he idolizes ) , Edward Fox ( as Christie's intended , a war-hero ) , as well as Margaret Leighton and Michael Gough ( as her parents ) ; Leighton's role remains in the background for most of the time but , then , she asserts herself during the last third to bring down the couple's relationship - with the unwilling assistance of the bewildered Guard . Besides , Michel Legrand contributes an atypically ominous yet haunting score . This was the third and last time Losey and screenwriter Harold Pinter worked together , constituting a very fruitful and quite extraordinary collaboration ; for about two-thirds of its length , the film finds Losey somewhere near his best - the contemporary subplot where Leo reprises his ' services ' for an older Christie works less well , in my opinion ( and is too sketchily presented anyway ) , rendering an already deliberately-paced film somewhat overlong ! THE GO-BETWEEN won the Golden Palm at the Cannes Film Festival , was nominated for an impressive 12 BAFTA awards ( winning 4 ) but received only 1 Oscar nomination ( for Leighton as Best Supporting Actress ) .
THE SEVENTH VICTIM ( Mark Robson , 1943 )	This had been one of the most elusive of Lewton's classic horror films and , in fact , I only first caught up with it a couple of years ago on Italian TV ( where it was dubbed , of course ) . While I recall being very impressed with it then I only rated it a and , given that I boosted the rating now , one would naturally assume that I loved it even more ; however , the film's low-key nature doesn't make it ideal viewing after a long day's work - but , then , Steve Haberman's excellent Audio Commentary proved quite enlightening ( pointing out some of the subtleties I might have missed ) so that , by the time I was done with the DVD , I felt that I had ' got ' it sufficiently to merit that extra half a star ! As with the first three entries ( after which a change of director was ordered by RKO - but , then , he had to fight for first-timer Mark Robson ! ) , the film basically revolves around a number of highly-charged and brilliantly-handled suspense sequences : the walk down the dark corridor of the cosmetics shop ( the firm is pretentiously named " La Sagesse " , meaning Wisdom ) where an opportunistic but sympathetic pint-sized detective meets his doom ; a Hitchcockian scene aboard a train ; the shower sequence in which a member of the devil cult bursts in on lead Kim Hunter , warning her not to get involved any further ( though entirely different in development , this could well be the cinematic fore-runner of the legendary scene in PSYCHO [ 1960 ] ! ) ; yet another walk across a dark alley with a threat to one of the characters which could come at any moment and from any corner . The film is undercast , but effectively so : Kim Hunter is impressive in her debut performance ; her two suitors , however , are rather too fey - though the poet character is , at least , intriguing ( if giving rise to a decidedly over-literate script , already peppered with Lewton's typically pretentious quotations ! ) ; Tom Conway actually reprises his role from CAT PEOPLE ( 1942 ) , making it one of cinema's first examples of a prequel - since his character died in the earlier movie ! ; Jean Brooks - writer / director Richard Brooks ' wife - was a somewhat vapid heroine in THE LEOPARD MAN ( 1943 ) , but this quality ( accentuated by her dark wig , which is every bit as iconic as the one sported by Louise Brooks in PANDORA'S BOX [ 1928 ] and must have inspired Uma Thurman's look in Tarantino's would-be seminal PULP FICTION [ 1994 ] ) actually fitted like a glove her enigmatic and nihilistic character here ! Even though the latter does not make an appearance before the 30-minute mark of this 71-minute film - and she only has about 10 minutes of actual screen-time in all ! - her presence permeates the entire movie , much like Orson Welles ' Harry Lime would in THE THIRD MAN ( 1949 ) . Though , at first glance , the devil cult may not seem particularly sinister ( apart from their leader , Ben Bard ) the scene where they finally catch up with Brooks and attempt to induce her to suicide is superbly done ; then again , its depiction of Satanists as normal people who lead normal social lives anticipated ROSEMARY'S BABY ( 1968 ) by a quarter of a century ! The script also manages to sneak in several allusions to lesbianism ( which are there for anyone who cares to pick them up ) ; certainly an unusual emphasis for the time . It also features one of the bleakest endings to any film ( particularly coming from a Hollywood studio product ! ) , featuring yet another brief but haunting turn from Elizabeth Russell as a dying woman ; even though I was aware of how it was all going to end , it still took my breath away ( the closing lines - from a sonnet by John Donne - are unforgettable and among the greatest ever , in my opinion ) ! The Audio Commentary ( perhaps the finest in this Box Set ) goes into some detail about deleted footage that expanded on the interesting relationship in the film between Conway and the young poet , and also between Conway and a one-armed member of the cult ( whose role is severely diminished in the final film ! ) ; as a matter of fact , Conway's motives here are even more obscure than in CAT PEOPLE : he's seen as a prominent figure at the parties given by the devil-worshippers , and yet it's because Brooks spilled the beans to him that the latter want her dead ( he , meanwhile , seems intent on harboring her despite his cynical veneer ) ! Haberman also mentions the efforts of British film-makers to watch THE SEVENTH VICTIM in wartime ( American films of this era only reached foreign shores after the end of WWII ! ) - among them the Boulting Brothers , Carol Reed and Michael Powell ( the last , according to DVD Savant but which I can well believe , since Kim Hunter was cast in the added subplot for the alternate U . S . version of The Archers ' A CANTERBURY TALE [ 1944 ] ! ) - and a hilarious anecdote of scenarist De Witt Bodeen ( the script was co-written with Charles O'Neal , father of actor Ryan ! ) attending a real devil-worship meeting in which harmless-looking old ladies cast terrible spells on Hitler while nonchalantly sipping tea ! ! The theory of doubles he comes up with is interesting , too , if one I hadn't actually picked on myself ; regrettably , however , the Commentary omits biographical data for cast and crew members , which is usually thorough for even the minor characters ( as I would have liked to know more , for instance , about the actors who memorably played the ill-fated detective and an old newspaper woman - despite their limited screen-time ) .
PHANTOM LADY ( Robert Siodmak , 1944 )	This is a film which had eluded me thus far but , now that I've watched it , emerges as one of the major entries in the noir style . As usual with the DivX format , the viewing was far from ideal ? marred by the occasional video and ( mostly ) audio glitches ? but , given that the film is still unavailable on R1 DVD , this will have to do for the moment . Since the film's reputation is quite high within the genre itself , I assume that the reason behind this oversight is because it does not have a well-known actor in the lead . Anyway , the belated entrance of the film's nominal star ? Franchot Tone ? packs quite a wallop ( especially as he is shown to be the villain from the first ) ! Tone was a underrated actor ? he was rarely given meaty roles , and this may well be his best ( making his paranoiac both fascinating and believably dangerous ) . The female lead ? Ella Raines , who would later feature in BRUTE FORCE ( 1947 ) as well as Siodmak's own THE SUSPECT ( 1944 ) and THE STRANGE AFFAIR OF UNCLE HARRY ( 1945 ) ? is quite lovely and capably takes on the role of the distraught secretary out to prove her convicted boss ( Alan Baxter ) innocent of his wife's brutal murder . Other key supporting parts are essayed by Thomas Gomez as the initially bullying but ultimately sympathetic police investigator , and Elisha Cook Jr . ? the genre's quintessential fall guy ? as an ill-fated " ladies ' man " of a percussionist . Like BRUTE FORCE's Jules Dassin , Siodmak was on a noir roll at this point in his career and this film definitely benefits from his superb direction ? all tilted angles and terrific set-pieces , including the justly celebrated jazz sequence in which Cook manically beats on his drums in a sexual frenzy brought on by the sluttishly-attired Raines ( who is putting on an act to get his attention and eventually drive him to confess that he withheld evidence at the inquest which could spring her resigned lover from jail ) . Another great , lengthy sequence is the one in which Raines follows a bartender ( another uncooperative witness ) around the streets of New York ? which results in his being mowed down by a car ! Notable , too , is the trial sequence ? which is entirely depicted through the audience's reaction so that judge , jury , witnesses and D . A . are never actually seen ( although the judge's voice is recognizably that of veteran character actor Samuel S . Hinds ) . The centerpiece of the film is the scene in which Gomez and Tone discuss the nature of the criminal involved , with the inspector's put down of the latter as mentally insane giving the initially smug Tone " dizzy spells " . The suspenseful climax finds Raines alone with Tone in his apartment , where she discovers evidence of his guilt ? and he confesses to having had an affair with Baxter's wife , but killed her when she wouldn't desert her husband for him . By the way , I hit upon a little goof in the film : while the story is clearly set in 1943 , I noticed that during the taxi cab ride towards the beginning of the film ? in which Alan Curtis escorts the titular lady to the theater ? the establishing shot of New York ( comprising clearly of stock footage ) features a marquee promoting Laurel and Hardy's 1938 musical comedy , SWISS MISS ! Incidentally , famed mystery writer Cornell Woolrich wrote the original novel on which this was based using a pseudonym .
BLOWUP ( Michelangelo Antonioni , 1966 )	Where this film is concerned , I know I need not stress the fact that people shouldn’t go into it expecting a thriller . This element is certainly there and the central " blowup " sequence is mesmerizing ( the fashion photographer protagonist thinks he has captured a murder on camera , but the evidence is subsequently stolen from his studio and the body disappears ) ; however , details are left deliberately oblique , since the director was here probing the nature of illusion . This remains Antonioni’s most popular effort and one of the seminal films of the 1960s . It presents a unique blending of Art-house and Swinging London – the latter making the former palatable to the masses , while itself seeming less insipid because of the artistic sensibilities involved . The London settings ( alternately vivid and bleak ) are brilliantly captured by cinematographer Carlo Di Palma : they feel at once recognizable and alien ! David Hemmings’ lead performance was and is iconic – managing to give the slow-moving and generally uneventful proceedings much-needed vitality ; the two other featured stars ( Vanessa Redgrave and especially Sarah Miles ) are , however , underused . Herbie Hancock’s score now feels dated , though it’s mostly used as incidental music throughout – and there’s also an underwhelming club performance by the British pop group The Yardbirds ( featuring a very young Jimmy Page , later of Led Zeppelin ) - but this sequence does have a great coda as a piece of broken guitar is first frenziedly craved by the ecstatic audience but is then , eventually , nonchalantly discarded on the pavement by a disinterested youth ! The film achieved notoriety at the time for its groundbreaking use of nudity ( highlighting a blonde Jane Birkin ) which now , of course , comes across as incredibly tame ! The ‘bookend’ presence of a group of revelers / mimes is famously baffling , too , but this does lead to an exquisitely ambiguous conclusion involving Hemmings’ – and , eventually , the audience’s – conception of reality ( which is bound to infuriate those not in tune with Antonioni’s approach to cinema ! ) . The director himself later tried the same formula in America amidst the student revolutionaries with ZABRISKIE POINT ( 1970 ) – set to the music of Pink Floyd and The Grateful Dead – but the results weren’t nearly as distinguished , and the film was a critical and commercial flop ( though it subsequently gained a cult following ) . Finally , BLOWUP’s considerable influence is evident in David Hemmings’ later excursion into Italian cinema – Dario Argento’s DEEP RED ( 1975 ; itself the quintessential giallo ) , where the star plays another involuntary witness to murder – and in Brian De Palma’s elaborate but disappointing techno-thriller , BLOW OUT ( 1981 ) .
PRESTO ( Doug Sweetland , 2008 )	Included on the WALL-E ( 2008 ) DVD is another Oscar contender , albeit in the Animated Short category . Actually , it proved surprisingly even more satisfying than the occasionally maudlin main feature : 5 near-perfect minutes of non-stop hilarity involving an egocentric magician and his come-uppance during a stage performance by the proverbial rabbit-in-the-hat ( when it is denied food ) . Highly inventive ? especially funny is the struggle with the ladder , which recoils into the conjuror's groin ? and ( necessarily ) fast-paced , it does that rare thing nowadays by genuinely evoking memories of the classic Looney Tunes cartoons from Warner Bros . While I have not watched the eventual Oscar winner in its category , I would say that PRESTO was equally deserving of the coveted statuette as WALL-E itself .
IN THE NAME OF THE Italian PEOPLE ( Dino Risi , 1971 )	This savage attack on the judicial system in Italy emerges to be an unsung masterpiece which sees director Risi and stars Ugo Tognazzi and Vittorio Gassaman at the top of their game . While necessarily talky and heavy-going , the film’s coup is in the way it makes various dense and relevant points on the state of the country at the time within the confines of a straight ( and engrossing ) thriller plot . The end result , therefore , offers stimulating characterization ( by pitting the two leads against one another , Tognazzi as the dogged magistrate and Gassman as a smug industrialist-cum-murder suspect ) alongside memorable – and often caustic – vignettes denouncing bureaucracy , big business , class and generational differences , and what have you . The director’s deft fusion throughout of the mundane with elements of outright fantasy , then , proves to be the icing on the cake – while , holding it all together , is a marvelous score by Carlo Rustichelli . To name just a few significant moments : Tognazzi , taking a break from work to go fishing , sees his solitary puny catch being pinched by a hovering sea-gull . . . only to have the latter drop dead before his very eyes from the polluted waters ( a result of the excess industrial waste being dumped into it by Gassman’s factory situated nearby ! ) ; Gassman being picked up for interrogation about the murder of a call girl ( " Euro-Cult " starlet Ely Galleani ) from a fancy-dress party , where he dons the outfit of an Ancient Roman soldier ; the collapse of a structure within the law-courts building right at the moment when Tognazzi and an overly lenient colleague are having a noisy row ; Gassman’s various disastrous attempts to provide an alibi for the night Galleani died ( having failed to procure his senile card-playing father’s backing in this regard , he has him committed to a mental asylum ! ) ; an irrelevant but uproarious moment when , during a ceremony in which Gassman is himself a recipient , an elderly man falls flat on his face in the process of retrieving his own accolade . But , undeniably , the highlights of the film are the definitive tete-a'-tete between the leads on a rain-soaked , trash-covered beach ( which Gassman has set up in an attempt to familiarize himself with – and , by extension , soften – the unflinching magistrate ) and the surreal Fellini-esquire finale : as the whole case ostensibly comes crumbling down on Tognazzi , via the retrieved diary of Galleani , amid a rambunctious street festival on the occasion of Italy’s triumph over England in a soccer match ; the extent of the magistrate’s bias / misguided zealousness is symbolized here by his seeing Gassman everywhere he looks , thus presenting an opportunity for the latter to indulge himself yet again in a number of grotesque make-ups a ' la I MOSTRI ( 1963 ) – which , coincidentally , had preceded this very title in my ongoing Dino Risi tribute . . .
Un Cineaste De Notre Temps : Luis Bunuel ( TV ) { Edited Version } ( Robert Valey , 1964 )	This is the fifth documentary I’m watching whose subject is my all-time favorite film-maker , Luis Bunuel ; it is also the earliest of them and quite possibly the most endearing . It mostly features the great Spaniard himself responding self-deprecatingly in heavily-accented but fluent French to the sometimes obtuse observations of a young interviewer ; Bunuel was a notoriously no-nonsense interviewee who was diffident of the various interpretations critics were all too eager to put forward on his multi-layered films . The informal interview was conducted on the streets of Bunuel’s adopted home of Mexico and , at one point , a two-shot of them is disturbed by the off-screen braying of a passing donkey , at which the director immediately quips , " You’d better insert a shot of the donkey here or else the audience will think we’re making that noise ! " Another amusing element found in this piece is that occasionally Bunuel’s modest replies are completely contradicted in the accompanying footage featuring his close friend ( and eminent French film historian ) Georges Sadoul . For example , the latter claims that Bunuel kept his French wife Jeanne hidden away whenever the Surrealists met at his house in the late 1920s or that the Spanish painter Goya is a clear influence on the director’s visual style . . . but Bunuel will have none of that pigeon-holing ! This documentary – included on the Criterion DVD of VIRIDIANA ( 1961 ) in a slightly abridged form which , I assume , jettisons the inclusion of scenes from Bunuel’s films because of rights issues – is also significant for explaining the director’s apparent " grouchiness " which stemmed from the fact that , as a direct result of his increasing deafness , he willfully withdrew from socializing . Furthermore , Bunuel’s passion for guns ( of which he owned 90 even though he loathed the killing of animals ! ) and gunpowder is briefly touched upon ; Sadoul’s anecdote of Bunuel’s own preparation of a would-be harmless bullet intended for himself that subsequently exploded is the comic highlight of this priceless documentary which is accompanied on the soundtrack by the pounding Calandan Good Friday drumbeats that featured so hauntingly in L’ AGE D’ OR ( 1930 ) .
I WALKED WITH A ZOMBIE ( Jacques Tourneur , 1943 )	Val Lewton and Jacques Tourneur's follow-up to CAT PEOPLE ( 1942 ) may not be as readily enjoyable - leaving some rabid genre fans underwhelmed as well - but , if anything , it's even more complex and mature ( Tourneur himself considered it the best film he ever made ) : while Kent Smith was essentially bland , here we have two rather dark male leads in Tom Conway and James Ellison ( both of whom turn in fine performances far beyond their usual standards ) ; in fact , characterization is very well thought out all the way ( considering it's a B horror piece barely over an hour in length ! ) . Frances Dee makes for a very sympathetic heroine , while Edith Barrett gives another multi-layered portrayal as Conway and Ellison's mother ( the two men are half-brothers ) who herself bears a guilty conscience ; Sir Lancelot is a native troubadour who sings a haunting tune - actually reprised in the 1945 spoof ZOMBIES ON Broadway , co-starring Bela Lugosi ! - about the zombie ' plague ' and its connection to Conway , Ellison and Christine Gordon ( as Conway's ' afflicted ' wife ) . The creepy-looking Darby Jones also makes an undeniable impression as the zombie guardian Carrefour ( and even returned for the aforementioned ZOMBIES ON Broadway ) . J . Roy Hunt's noir-ish cinematography is masterly throughout ( particularly its penchant to shoot through venetian blinds ) , allowing for several effective sequences : Frances Dee being stalked first by Christine Gordon and then by Darby Jones ( who mistakes her for Gordon , because she's wearing her nightgown - as picked up in the perceptive Audio Commentary by the ultra-enthusiastic Kim Newman and Stephen Jones , this actually symbolizes Dee's having taken Gordon's place in Tom Conway's affections ! ) ; the celebrated title sequence leading up to the zombie rituals ; and the tragically poetic finale . It's regrettable that , following George A . Romero's NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD ( 1968 ) , all zombie films presented the creatures as flesh eaters since the early examples of the genre , motivated by voodoo - as here but also ( to name just the landmark titles ) WHITE ZOMBIE ( 1932 ) , THE PLAGUE OF THE ZOMBIES ( 1966 ) , and even the superb Bob Hope spoof THE GHOST BREAKERS ( 1940 ) - gave the monsters an eerie , quasi-mystical quality that was eventually largely eradicated ! The script of this film ( co-written by Curt Siodmak ) is actually an interesting transposition in straight horror terms of Charlotte Bronte's popular and oft-filmed Gothic romance " Jane Eyre " . The Audio Commentary ( given the great fun that this track proved to be , I look forward to listening to other Newman / Jones Commentaries such as - all R2 exclusives - THE OLD DARK HOUSE [ 1932 ; I actually brought it forward in my Halloween schedule because of this ! ] , COUNTESS Dracula [ 1971 ] , HANDS OF THE RIPPER [ 1971 ] , THE MEDUSA TOUCH [ 1978 ] and THE DEAD ZONE [ 1983 ] ) also mentions a number of deleted scenes which were shot but , presumably , haven't survived ; still , in its current compact form , the film could hardly be improved upon !
QUARTET ( Ralph Smart , Harold French , Arthur Crabtree and Ken Annakin , 1948 )	A number of portmanteau films had been made before this celebrated and influential British example – the most notable to emanate from the country prior to it being the superb horror-oriented DEAD OF NIGHT ( 1945 ) . QUARTET , however , took a novel concept by bringing together a handful of tales by the same ( famous ) author , specifically W . Somerset Maugham ; the formula was subsequently even imitated in Hollywood with O . HENRY’S FULL HOUSE ( 1952 ) . The renowned R2 DVD company , Network , released the film as a 3-Disc Set along with its two follow-ups – TRIO ( 1950 ) and ENCORE ( 1951 ) , comprising six more short stories by Maugham ; thankfully , I was able to acquire the collection recently through Network themselves during an online sale ( and those films will be following in short order ) . I think it’s important to note at the outset the fact that most of the so-called ‘classic’ British cinema was marked by a rather genteel quality ( evident not just in the behavior of characters on-screen but also the unfussy technique adopted in their making ) in comparison to , say , equivalent American product from the same era . Therefore , at a cursory viewing of the film , one might feel Leonard Maltin’s rating a mite excessive since there’s nothing particularly outstanding about it ; what we get here , quite simply , is a display of sheer professionalism to abet Maugham’s own keen writing skills . Anyway , the first story involves a young man’s indoctrination into " The Facts Of Life " – a promising talent at tennis , he’s sent to Monte Carlo to take part in a tournament ; his conservative father ( Basil Radford ) advises him to use his money wisely and keep away from both gambling and women . However , once there , he does his own thing and , through a series of lucky strokes , is able to contradict his old man : not only does he win a large sum of money at the casino , but he lends some to a beautiful young woman ( Mai Zetterling ) ; she then takes the boy home with her , fully intending to rob him of his gains , but it’s he who outwits her and returns to England triumphant . The episode is also notable for being yet another teaming of that amiable odd couple comprising Radford and Naunton Wayne ( first brought together in Alfred Hitchcock’s THE LADY VANISHES [ 1938 ] ) . The second tale , called " The Alien Corn " , stars Dirk Bogarde as the heir to an English estate ; however , his passion is piano-playing – which greatly displeases the rest of the family . His cousin ( lovely young Honor Blackman ) who’s besotted with him comes up with a compromise – Bogarde can study for two years in Paris , after which time he’s to be examined by a professional to determine whether he shows real promise in the field or is merely an amateur . When the time for the assessment comes , he’s pretty confident in his skills – but the judgment of the expert ( Francoise Rosay ) is brutally frank . The family is relieved : as for Bogarde , while he seems to acquiesce to their decision and give up the piano ( even admitting to Blackman to be resigned to his fate ) , he commits suicide the minute he’s left to his own devices ! " The Kite " is the least of the segments , but also the oddest : George Cole and his family ( Mervyn Johns and Hermione Baddeley ) are kite enthusiasts , which doesn’t sit well with his fiancée Susan Shaw – who believes it to be trivial kids’ stuff . Torn between his love of the girl and his passion for the hobby ( he even designs experimental models himself ) , he’s forced to choose – and , of course , he opts for the latter while still paying alimony to Shaw ( having , by now , become his wife ) . The situation , however , comes to a head when he finds his ‘masterpiece’ all broken up and , naturally blaming his wife , he refuses to give Shaw her dues – which lands him in jail ! The tale ends with prison visitor Bernard Lee mediating between the couple . . . by persuading the girl to humor her hubby and develop a fondness for kite-flying herself ! The fourth and last episode , " The Colonel’s Lady " , is the longest – and best – of the quartet : no-nonsense military officer Cecil Parker is married to dowdy Nora Swinburne ; one day , he discovers that she’s been writing poetry and has managed to publish a collection . He initially scoffs at the idea but , when the book becomes a resounding success ( apparently for its " earthy " depiction of a love affair ) , he can no longer ignore it . . . especially since all his colleagues ( including eminent critic Ernest Thesiger ) start congratulating Parker and even refer to him as the husband of a celebrity ! Finally obliged to read the book for himself , which is written in the first person , he becomes jealous of Swinburne’s mysterious conquest – which is ironic ( to say nothing of hypocritical on his part ) since Parker himself carries on a clandestine romance with attractive society woman Linden Travers who , of course , loves Swinburne’s book ( incidentally , like the afore-mentioned Basil Radford and Naunton Wayne , Parker and Travers had appeared before as a couple in THE LADY VANISHES ) . Determined to get his wife to confess the name of the party involved in her past misdemeanor , he’s then astounded to learn that the man she was describing had been his former , younger and more caring self ( at which he breaks down ) ! By the way , the film is book-ended by appearances from Maugham himself – though , apparently , the epilogue was dropped in either re-issue or foreign versions ( the ‘alternate ending’ included as a supplement on the DVD , then , simply reprises the concluding moments from " The Colonel’s Lady " ! ) . For the record , I have several unwatched compendiums ( mostly Italian films but also Julien Duvivier’s American-made TALES OF MANHATTAN [ 1942 ] ) on various formats – and this has certainly made me game to check some of them out . . .
QUATERMASS AND THE PIT { Episodes 1-6 } ( Rudolph Cartier , 1958-59 ; TV )	I had always considered the third - and most ambitious - Quatermass film ( made in 1967 ) as a masterpiece ; if anything , the original serial is even better as the accumulation of detail ( Kneale's decidedly cerebral script taking in an archaeological expedition overrun by the military , paranormal manifestations going hand in hand with a secret alien invasion , a startling revelation concerning Homo Sapiens , riots provoked by the sudden appearance of an energy-consuming demon , and ending with a plea for tolerance ! ) is more smoothly distributed - and , consequently , better digested - over the period of 3 ½ hours rather than a film little more than 90 minutes in length ! ! Casting is very strong and about the best of all three serials , with Andre ' Morell ( standing in for the recently deceased John Robinson ) emerging as the finest Quatermass ever ; Michael Ripper - the actor with more Hammer Films credits to his name ( though not , curiously enough , their version of this serial ! ) - is featured in a supporting role . The film - among the top two or three ever turned out by Hammer - obviously substituted color for black-and-white ( arriving 10 years after the last Quatermass picture with a new director and lead actor ) ; an inspired touch , however , was its resetting the excavation site where the alien spacecraft is discovered to a branch of the London Underground and , besides , this time around they could afford to show the demon and its subsequent destruction ! Of course , having watched the Hammer films numerous times prior to going through the serials themselves , the narratives hold no real surprises - but , then , because Kneale's concepts are so fascinating and even persuasive , they keep one riveted ( and , despite their considerable length , don't make one restless to get to the ' goodies ' , so to speak ) . Again , the opening credits and the score set the tone wonderfully for what's to come - and , contrary to the monster of " The Quatermass Experiment " ( which the BBC hated so much that the final episode of that first serial was deleted immediately ! ) , some care was evidently allowed here to the preparation of the Martian creatures so vital to the program ! ! Unfortunately , I experienced freezing around the 147-minute mark during playback of this particular disc - but , by fast-forwarding and rewinding a bit , I managed to make it through the effected part regardless . . .
The Lost Patrol ( 1934 )	The second film version of an archetypal adventure story is arguably the best despite some dated elements ; John Ford deftly handles the proceedings and Max Steiner's stirring score - which at times foreshadows his later one for CASABLANCA ( 1942 ) - is a major asset . The solid cast of character actors is highlighted by Boris Karloff's remarkable turn as a religious fanatic who is slowly driven crazy by the amorality of his comrades and the futility of their struggle against unseen Arab attackers . The film can not only be seen to form part of the " British Empire " sub-genre of adventure films - with THE LIVES OF A BENGAL LANCER ( 1935 ) , THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE ( 1936 ) , THE FOUR FEATHERS ( 1939 ) and GUNGA DIN ( 1939 ) being its most notable contemporary examples - but , if one were to stretch it a bit , also paves the way for more modern stuff like John Carpenter's ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 ( 1976 ) . It's unfortunate that nowadays , only the 66-minute reissue version seems to be available rather than the original , full-length 74 minute version . Over 20 years ago , I missed my one opportunity to watch this one on Italian TV and have been on the lookout for it ever since ; however , I did manage to catch two similarly-themed wartime actioners , BATAAN ( 1943 ; with Robert Taylor ) and SAHARA ( 1943 ; with Humphrey Bogart ) over the years which were quite good in their own right . Curiously enough , Cyril McLaglen had played the same part played here by his brother Victor in the earlier 1929 British film version .
THE BESPOKE OVERCOAT ( Jack Clayton , 1956 )	Celebrated British fantasy short from an equally famous source , a story by the great Russian novelist Nikolai Gogol which has been filmed several times ( I own two other adaptations myself : the 1952 Italian version and a 1954 TV program also made in Britain : interestingly , both of these had served as dramatic showcases for comic stars i . e . Renato Rascel and Buster Keaton [ ! ] respectively ) . For the record , yet another acclaimed cinematic rendition of the tale is the Russian one from 1959 . In the case of the film under review , however , the essentially low-key handling benefits tremendously from the presence of character actors in the central roles ( and also by emphasizing their Jewishness ) : Alfie Bass – some of his mannerisms here would be reprised in Roman Polanski’s horror spoof THE FEARLESS VAMPIRE KILLERS ( 1967 ) ! – is the poor and meek clerk , who wishes to own an overcoat that would shield him from the cold environment at his workplace ( ironically , a textile business ) , and David Kossoff the modest but " Number One " tailor he entrusts with the task . Actually , the film begins with Bass’ funeral – and Kossoff buries the coat with him , the former having died ( of a broken heart from being sacked ) before it was completed . Subsequently , the tailor is visited by the ghost of the clerk – recounting the animosity with his employer , how the ownership of the overcoat became a question of dignity and pride , how he lost his job and ensuing lonesome death . Bass , however – who feels spited , having been shown no gratitude for the service he diligently rendered for so long – asks Kossoff to accompany him to the shop intending to ‘abscond’ with a piece of expensive fabric ( finally settling on a sheepskin coat ) . Director Clayton boldly chose to treat ghost stories with the same level of realism accorded to a gritty drama ( see also THE INNOCENTS [ 1961 ] , on whose R2 SE DVD this short was thankfully made available ) and for which he employed cinematographer Wolfgang Suschitsky ( especially effective are the transitions from the present to Bass’ recollections and back again ) and composer Georges Auric ( who supplies a lovely score ) . The end result – which emerged both an Oscar and Venice Film Festival winner – is fascinating and virtually flawless , ensuring its solid reputation ( for a short subject ) among cineastes .
CARTOUCHE ( Philippe De Broca , 1962 )	I had previously watched this eons ago one Sunday night on Italian TV ? a film that has easily come to be universally considered as France's finest offering to the swashbuckling genre and , with this in mind , it more than holds its own alongside Hollywood's best similar offerings . What gives this added texture , then , is the authentic feel for 18th century France ( stunningly rendered in widescreen color cinematography by the distinguished Christian Matras , who was particularly adept at this sort of thing ) , a quality that is undoubtedly further enhanced by a typically wonderful Georges Delerue score ; incidentally , listening to it once more , I realized that the lovely romantic theme here was very much a dry run for his celebrated , haunting work on Jean-Luc Godard's CONTEMPT ( 1963 ) ? which has for some time firmly insinuated itself among my all-time favorite movie scores ! Of course , the film finds star Jean-Paul Belmondo at the peak of his powers as the amiable titular rogue ; however , his supporting cast ? headed by luscious Claudia Cardinale , an atypically villainous Marcel Dalio , as well as Jess Hahn and Jean Rochefort as the hero's rowdy copains ? is no less impressive . With respect to the action sequences , the swordfights aren't as plentiful as I had expected , though certainly vigorously handled all the same . As a matter of fact , another element that distinguishes it from contemporary outings in the prolific genre ( even where French cinema is concerned ) , is that there is a good deal more emphasis here on brawling and ( especially ) romance ? with Cartouche ( actually a nickname ) largely neglecting devoted commoner Cardinale for the amorous attentions of an unattainable aristocratic lady until it's too late . Unusually , therefore , this comes with a downbeat ending in which the heroine sacrifices herself to save her lover from an assailant's arrow ? which is then followed by a beautiful and moving funeral rite . For the record , this was the first ( and best ) of director De Broca and star Belmondo's many collaborations which , box-office-wise , peaked with their next one , THAT MAN FROM RIO ( 1964 ) , which I also own ; incidentally , I have its follow-up UP TO HIS EARS ( 1965 ) as well albeit in French without the benefit of English subtitles ! I would also love to catch up with the others ? LE MAGNIFIQUE ( 1973 ) and L'INCORRIGIBLE ( 1975 ) ? which look to be quite fun from the theatrical trailers I caught some time ago in a French Belmondo Box Set . Furthermore , De Broca would try ( and relatively succeed ) in recapturing the spirit of CARTOUCHE many years later with a much-filmed swashbuckling property LE BOSSU ( 1997 ) . By the way , the low-budget Italian production of 1954 which also goes by the name of CARTOUCHE and stars Richard Basehart apparently has nothing else in common with this one ( being , for one thing , a much-inferior product ) . One final thing : although the film under review is also available as a Special Edition DVD in France , I opted for the cheaper , barebones R1 disc from Anchor Bay given the prohibitively expensive shipping charges and the typical unavailability of English subtitles on the included audio commentary !
THE PRESTIGE ( Christopher Nolan , 2006 )	I've been interested in this period drama about the rivalry between a couple of magicians ever since I first heard about it , promising to be the kind of film they don't make ' em like anymore - it was that , and then some ! Still , if there's one criticism I'd level at THE PRESTIGE , it's this : magic there is here but no poetry ( the closest it comes is in the scene where the snow is ' lit ' up and when Hugh Jackman stumbles upon the transported hats ) ; having just rewatched Georges Franju's JUDEX ( 1963 ) , I felt this most strongly - what it needed , perhaps , was a more evocative score ( a ' la Maurice Jarre's haunting theme for that film ) . Likewise , I somewhat regret the fact that the settings and the detail had to be so realistic - but I can see how this was vital to the psychology ( which is , basically , what drives the plot in the first place ! ) . The film shows the essential fun of the craft but also the dedication it requires ; the throat-cutting which goes on behind the scenes does seem a little far-fetched , even if propelled by a quest for vengeance ( to say nothing of the extremity of the sacrifice to which the two men and those closest to them seem to be willing to go , or are made to , merely to feed their individual unhealthy obsession ! ) - except that the plot is so absorbing it's only after the film is over that one has time to ponder on such details ! ! Of course , the multiple revelations during its last act are astounding , if not a little confusing and somewhat too clever for their own good ( it's ironical , too , that the two magicians end up ' dying ' the same way as their respective spouses - but to reveal more would be unthinkable ! ) : it certainly needs more than a single viewing for all the subtleties to be picked up and , while I'm not usually one to allow most recent films another look , this one is utterly fascinating and enjoyable . . . so I wouldn't have a problem with that ( and , in any case , reading the HTF's " Official Discussion Thread " on THE PRESTIGE got me thinking about how much of it went over my head ! ) . The casting works better than I had anticipated : both Jackman and Christian Bale are their respective characters and they work off each other beautifully ; Michael Caine and David Bowie , then , lend dignity to the proceedings with their knowing and underplayed roles . Still , while the contribution of the three women in their lives ( Scarlett Johannson , Rebecca Hall and Piper Perabo ) isn't just decorative , only Hall as Bale's long-suffering wife is handed a truly meaty character ; in fact , as was the case with THE BLACK DAHLIA ( 2006 ) , Johannson serves mainly as a device to accentuate the power play being enacted between the two self-destructing male leads - but , then , such high-profile and noteworthy assignments can only increase her own prestige { sic } as an actress . . . I've loved all of Nolan's films I've watched so far ( I'm only left with his debut feature , FOLLOWING [ 1998 ] , to catch up with ) - but I can safely say that this one's the best ( or , if you like , my favorite ) of the lot .
TWICE UPON A TIME ( John Korty and Charles Swenson , 1983 )	Despite the patronage of George Lucas , this captivating and totally original fantasy in " Lumage " ( a combination of animation through live action cut-outs ) is about as far removed from the usual kiddie fare as anything made by Ralph Bakshi in his heyday . Brilliantly conceived characters such as the shape-shifting dog Ralph ( one of a duo of bumbling , rejected heroes ) , Synonamess Botch ( the hilariously foul-mouthed villain ) and Rod Rescueman ( the pompous novice superhero ) breathe life into a uniquely clever concept : Frivoli vs . Murkwood or , the eternal fight between dreams and nightmares . In this context , the MOR-infused songs on the soundtrack ought not to have worked but somehow they do . It's a real pity , therefore , that I have had to watch this via a truly crappy-looking boot ( culled from a TV screening ) of the uncensored version ? there is also a milder variant that toned down the language for its VHS release ? since the film is otherwise unavailable on DVD . Interestingly , both Henry Selick and David Fincher worked on this picture in subordinate capacities .
CASINO ROYALE ( Martin Campbell , 2006 )	Against every conceivable odds , the 21st James Bond adventure is one of his best : the highly unpopular choice of leading man ( with die-hard fans of the series ) paid off in spades as blonde Daniel Craig - who had previously impressed more for his restrained acting than his animal magnetism in both ROAD TO PERDITION ( 2002 ) and MUNICH ( 2005 ) - lends the character a determination , temerity and , most importantly perhaps , vulnerability missing since the earlier Sean Connery incarnations . The fact that he was faced with the burden of playing one of the screen's most iconic characters and encountering such overwhelming opposition at first , seems to have merely aided in making Craig's characterization of James Bond as , ironically , more believable than perhaps ever before . This is not to say that the spectacular stunts and action sequences - not to mention Bond's enviable way with a witty line or prowess in the bedchamber - have been jettisoned or diluted in favor of realistic minimalism but , the fact remains that more time than usual is dedicated here to delving into the various characters appearing in the story instead of previous upping-the-ante tactics which necessitated numerous climaxes seeking to upstage not only the ones seen in previous films but even those within the film itself . The relationship between Bond and his partner Vesper Lynd ( the luscious Eva Green ) is one of the most emotional and satisfying in the entire series and , despite my initial misgivings prior to watching the film , Mads Mikkelsen's Le Chiffre is a terrific opponent with a subtly effective make-up to go with his intense performance . The supporting cast is also worth mentioning : apart from Judi Dench ( who is by now filling in impeccably for the formidable Bernard Lee ) as M , we have Jeffrey Wright's bemused Felix Leiter and Giancarlo Giannini's reptilian Mathis , a welcome ally to Bond as he steps into the spider's lair that is the Casino of the title but , as usual with these spy sagas , loyalties - to say nothing of love - cannot be taken at face value . At 144 minutes , this is also the longest James Bond vehicle so far but as I mentioned earlier , CASINO ROYALE is easily the best of the series in 25 years ( at the very least ) . Frankly , I've only been able to take Roger Moore's overtly tongue-in-cheek James Bond persona in small doses , have had little use for Timothy Dalton's glumness and only been wholly satisfied with Pierce Brosnan's take in TOMORROW NEVER DIES ( 1997 ) . It is , therefore , very refreshing to see , for once , a James Bond film whose plot is not only exciting but , free as it is of the ingenious but distracting gadgets which proliferated in previous outings , also quite absorbing . The black-and-white introduction is a nice touch , the rather harrowing torture sequence is possibly a first for the series and , among the handful of action highlights , the crumbling of a Venetian edifice towards the end is as spectacular as they come .
THE CURSE OF THE CAT PEOPLE ( Gunther V . Fritsch and Robert Wise , 1944 )	Knowing it wasn't really a horror film , I had missed out on this on Italian TV ; then , when it was released on PAL VHS , I kind of purchased it so as to go along with the other Lewtons that had been released up to that time . . . but , when I finally sat down to watch it , I was very much impressed with the film and was , naturally , surprised to find it so compelling - to say nothing of unusual ! In fact , the film is a delicate psychological fantasy largely seen from a child's viewpoint - and a highly original one at that . Kent Smith and Jane Randolph reprise their roles from CAT PEOPLE ( 1942 ) but take a back seat to their daughter ( Ann Carter ) - who , distressingly , is beginning to display some of the perplexing traits which had afflicted her father's tragic first wife ( Simone Simon - who also returns here , appearing as the child's imaginary friend ) ! The cast also highlights former Silent-screen star Julia Dean ( as an eccentric old lady whom Carter befriends ) and , also from CAT PEOPLE , Elizabeth Russell ( as Dean's long-suffering daughter , unrecognized by her dotty parent and understandably jealous of Carter's ' stolen ' affection ) ; Sir Lancelot also features as the sympathetic manservant in the Smith / Randolph household . Simon's mystical appearances are economically but effectively rendered by means of light and shadow ; despite her top-billing , she appears very little ( but , as was the case with Jean Brooks in THE SEVENTH VICTIM [ 1943 ] , her presence is felt constantly throughout ) and , unfortunately , seems to look down on the film as an unwarranted sequel mandated by the studio ( though it ended up being nothing like what they had expected ! ) - as opposed to CAT PEOPLE , for which she remained grateful to Lewton her entire life ! ! The latter , on the other hand , was more involved than on virtually any other of his films : the project was very personal to Lewton , being largely inspired by his own troubled childhood ( as well as the producer's love / hate relationship with his own daughter - who , eerily , died of her father's same ailment at the exact same age ! ) . The film was started by documentarist Gunther von Fritsch but his extremely slow progress saw him quickly ousted and replaced by former editor Robert Wise ; Lewton was evidently pleased with the end product ( though he continued to ache over the film's climax and eventually ordered a complete rewrite - the strain , however , landed the producer in hospital ! ) , and Wise was subsequently engaged to direct the period drama MADEMOISELLE FIFI ( 1944 ; also with Simone Simon ) and Lewton's next horror outing - and acknowledged masterpiece - THE BODY SNATCHER ( 1945 ) . The same comments I made in reference to the Greg Mank / Simone Simon Audio Commentary on CAT PEOPLE more or less apply to their second helping here .
THE DEPARTED ( Martin Scorsese , 2006 )	I haven't watched the Asian original - though the 3-pack of the entire series has been available for rental forever at my local DVD outlet ! - and , frankly , now that I've seen Scorsese's ' version ' of them I don't really need to either ! ! For one thing , he manages to make the subject matter all his own : it's a veritable companion piece to MEAN STREETS ( 1973 ) , GOODFELLAS ( 1990 ) and CASINO ( 1995 ) . Still , I don't see this as an Oscar picture : much as I loved GANGS OF NEW YORK ( 2002 ) and THE AVIATOR ( 2004 ) , I'm glad Scorsese has returned to more typical ( and familiar ) territory - and his stamp is all over this film , from the dynamic editing to the terrific soundtrack to the multi-layered violent-yet-likable characters ( this has to be one of the most foul-mouthed mainstream films ever ! ) . The cast is top-notch and , while I've never been enthralled before with the baby-faced trio of Leonardo Di Caprio , Matt Damon and Mark Walhberg , they're all extremely convincing here ( with DiCaprio delivering his most De Niro-esquire performance yet ) ; as for the veterans , they add authenticity to the material which could never happen by watching the originals , because the actors would be unfamiliar to us - Jack Nicholson ( his best role in years ) and Ray Winstone ( though he seems to be stuck with this type of character ! ) are effortlessly menacing , while Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin are the image of integrity itself ; lovely Vera Farmiga makes the most of her difficult role ( the only female character of any consequence ) . There are flaws , however : the plot is quite convoluted and the film rather too long for its purpose ( hell , it goes on for another half-hour after the Nicholson character is bumped off ! ) - culminating in an over-the-top , body-strewn climax ( though the unexpected death of one of the leads is as shocking and powerful as Kevin Spacey's demise in L . A . CONFIDENTIAL [ 1997 ] ) . I haven't watched that many films this year , but this is easily the best so far .
WHO CAN KILL A CHILD ? ( Narciso Ibanez Serrador , 1976 )	I only became aware of this film when it was first released on DVD ( not the R1 edition , which is how I eventually watched it ) ; I got even more interested after being impressed with director Serrador's only other feature film ? the stylish Gothic horror THE HOUSE THAT SCREAMED ( 1969 ) . Actually , though I've had the disc for some time , I finally opted to watch it as a special birthday treat ! Anyway , the film emerged to be fully deserving of its considerable reputation ? though not without its flaws ( more on them later ) . While it's usually ranked as horror ( in view of the violence , I presume ) , I find it works just as well as science-fiction ? in that the phenomenon that makes the entire kid population of the island community homicidal remains unexplained ( not to mention the way the children are made to connect telepathically with each other or , for that matter , the heroine's demise at the ' hands ' of her unborn infant ! ) . In this respect , it's also similar to Hitchcock's THE BIRDS ( 1963 ) ? acknowledged as such by the cinematographer in one of two interesting accompanying interviews on the Dark Sky DVD ( the other is with the director himself ) . We've had several films featuring ' demonic ' children before and since , but few elicit as much power and sheer creepiness out of the casual savagery of their acts ( that said , we were usually treated to an isolated case ? even in THE EXORCIST [ 1973 ] ) ; incidentally , the film's ironic ending is virtually identical to the contemporaneous THE OMEN ( 1976 ) ? followed by a coda which suggests an INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS ( 1956 ) - type outbreak is in the offing ! The d . p . also comments on how he approached the genre in exactly the opposite manner that would have been expected of him ? rather than fill the film with darkness and menacing shadows , much of the action takes place in broad daylight ( indeed a torrid climate ) ? though he concedes that the isolated community was something of a cliché ( and , in particular likened its besieged protagonists to those in NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD [ 1968 ] ) . Having mentioned films that may have influenced this one , there's the obvious link to VILLAGE OF THE DAMNED ( 1960 ; in fact , one of the film's alternate monikers is ISLAND OF THE DAMNED ! ) while the scene in which a little girl comes crying for her father , only to lure him to his death , smacks of " The Wurdalak " episode from Mario Bava's compendium BLACK SABBATH ( 1963 ) . By the way , the fact that the two leads are English , it's preferable to watch the film in this language ? since the locals speak Spanish anyway ( which is accompanied for our benefit by English subtitles ) ; consequently , the fact that the heroes are strangers in a strange land ? surely one of the key narrative elements ? becomes that much more effective . Even so , I was somewhat underwhelmed by the performances of Lewis Fiander and Prunella Ransome ? of course , their complete ordinariness worked for the plot but it was a bit of a strain to invest nearly two hours in their plight ? especially since much of the surrounding events are tackled in a similarly low-key nature and , what's more , at a deliberate pace ! Some viewers may be shocked by the fact that a ) children appear to indulge in senseless violence throughout , an experience they're shown to treat as a game and b ) the retaliation by the adults , when it arrives , is no less harshly depicted ( particularly when one kid is shot in the head with a gun ) ; however , the director treats both these aspects with great sensitivity ( despite potentially offensive scenes such as the one where the children disrobe a teenage German tourist they've just killed and who had previously tried desperately to contact the protagonists ) and aplomb ( for instance , the subtle image of a body lying under the counter in a grocer shop and unseen by Fiander ) ? the film , ultimately , is more arty than exploitative . Which brings us to the credit sequence , presenting a series of montages supplemented by a list of statistics about just how many children have been victimized by the myriad wars waged during the 20th century ( rendered all the more chilling by a children's ditty on the soundtrack ? the score by Waldo de los Rios is also notable throughout ) ; the film , therefore , is an allegory in which the kids are seen to pay the adults back for this constant mistreatment ! However , I thought the ending ( already mentioned ) was a let-down ? since this leaves the picture somewhat incomplete : shouldn't it have been intimated that the history of mankind is , fundamentally , a vicious circle ? so that these very children who are now rebelling against their elders will eventually grow up to take part in the next war that comes along , thus causing harm themselves to a future generation of kids ! Mind you , I still opted for a higher rating because it's undeniably one of the best horror films of its era from any country ? intelligent , frightening and technically assured .
Death Takes A Holiday ( 1934 )	Despite some stilted dialogue and acting , this is an exquisitely opulent fantasy about the meaning of life which seamlessly mixes elements of comedy , romance and horror and emerges as an unjustly neglected minor classic - so much so that dear old Universal has deemed it fit to only give it a DVD release by proxy , unceremoniously slapping it onto their " Ultimate Edition " DVD of its overblown and unnecessary remake , MEET JOE BLACK ( 1998 ) . Fredric March is superb in the lead and only confirms his position as one of Hollywood's finest , most versatile and consistent character actors ( despite being blessed with matinée idol looks ) ; March himself considers this to be one of his favorite roles . This was only Mitchell Leisen's second film as director , and his production designer past is still much in evidence , but he would go on to make several accomplished films - particularly EASY LIVING ( 1937 ) , MIDNIGHT ( 1939 ) , ARISE , MY LOVE ( 1940 ) and KITTY ( 1945 ) - before his career gradually petered out in the late 40s . A strikingly similar film to DEATH TAKES A HOLIDAY which I also would love to watch is Harold S . Bucquet's ON BORROWED TIME ( 1939 ) with Sir Cedric Hardwicke playing Death and Lionel Barrymore as his unwilling " client " - but it never seems to get shown on TV in my neck of the woods !
FIRE OVER ENGLAND ( William K . Howard , 1937 )	Renowned and handsomely-mounted early British spectacular with imposing credentials ? producers Alexander Korda and Erich Pommer , cinematographer James Wong Howe , art director Lazare Meerson , special effects creator Ned Mann ? and a cast virtually assembling the cream of the crop working in the country at that particular moment ? Laurence Olivier , Flora Robson , Leslie Banks , Vivien Leigh , Raymond Massey , Robert Newton , James Mason ? all of which is complemented by a suitably rousing score from Richard Addinsell . The narrative revolves around the planned invasion of England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I by the Spanish armada of King Philip II ( with help from British traitors ) ; the former is magnificently embodied by Robson ( who would eventually return to the role in Hollywood for the Errol Flynn vehicle THE SEA HAWK [ 1940 ] ) , while the latter is played by Massey as a sleek but cagey monarch . With one of the dissidents among her ranks ( Mason ) intercepted , the English Queen appoints a young naval officer ( Olivier ) ? who had just lost his admiral father to the Spanish Inquisition ? to assume the conniver's identity and travel to Philip's court in order to obtain the names of his associates and establish the enemy's strategy for attack . Complications arise when one of the Spanish ruler's subordinates ( Newton ) is revealed to be married to the woman ( pretty Tamara Desni ? the German-born Russian actress died in France only last month at the venerable age of 97 ! ) who had previously cared for the wounded Olivier , their respective fathers having been the best of friends . Torn between betraying his country or his wife , Newton engineers Olivier's flight home ? whereupon the latter receives a knighthood , before being promptly sent by his sovereign ( along with the conspirators newly-swayed to patriotic duty ) on a mission to destroy the approaching enemy fleet ! The film maintains a good balance throughout between romance ( thanks to Olivier's matinée ' idol looks , he's briefly involved with Desni apart from his love interest in England ? provided by future wife Leigh , as the Queen's lady-in-waiting , in the first of three on-screen collaborations ? though Robson herself is shown carrying a hesitant torch for veteran and devoted chief adviser Banks ! ) , intrigue ( in effect at both camps ) , action ( including raids by pirate ships , a couple of chases , discreet swordplay and culminating in the final elaborate fiery offensive ) and propaganda ( WWII was already looming at this point ) . While the print I viewed turned out to be anything but pristine , I was grateful to have finally caught this altogether splendid historical epic ; incidentally , I'd become acquainted with several wonderful Korda productions over the years on both Italian TV and VHS ? but , oddly enough , FIRE OVER ENGLAND itself seldom turned up until now in my neck of the woods !
SCROOGE ( Brian Desmond-Hurst , 1951 )	I had first watched this ( actually , I began doubting whether it was only my second viewing of the film ? since , irrespective of the clearly recognizable plot line , I could distinctly recall several instances of dialogue as delivered by these particular actors ! ) via a computer-colorized version on Cable TV . The VCI 2-Disc Set includes this alongside the restored ( though with sporadically overly processed audio ) original black-and-white print , plus a baffling ? and completely unwarranted ? widescreen edition ( cropping the intended 1 . 33 : 1 aspect ratio to 1 . 78 : 1 ! ) . The film itself is universally acknowledged to be the finest adaptation of Charles Dickens ' " A Christmas Carol " ; not only does it stand as a perfect illustration of the difference between a competent treatment of a famous source and a superbly-realized one , but also as one of the most successful recreations of Dickensian times . Indeed , SCROOGE is impeccable in virtually every department ? even if the credits per se are relatively modest : for the record , director Desmond-Hurst was responsible for the WWII-set MALTA STORY ( 1953 ) featuring Alec Guinness and Jack Hawkins , while editor Clive Donner would subsequently direct the 1984 TV version ? under the original title of A Christmas CAROL ? starring George C . Scott ! The literate script is by Noel Langley yet again ( see my comments on SNOW WHITE AND THE THREE STOOGES [ 1961 ] ) , the handling often inspired ( such as the transitions between reality and the flashback / fantasy sequences ) and , making the most of the various popular characters , is a truly excellent cast . Heading the latter , of course , is Alastair Sim's perfectly nuanced and unforgettable portrayal of repentant miser Ebenezer Scrooge ; supporting him , then , are the likes of Mervyn Johns as Bob Cratchit , Jack Warner , Michael Hordern as Jacob Marley , Kathleen Harrison as a nervous yet sharp-tongued charwoman , Hermione Baddeley as Mrs . Cratchit , George Cole as the young Scrooge , Ernest Thesiger as an elderly unflappable undertaker , Miles Malleson , Peter Bull and Patrick Macnee as Young Marley . Besides , the overly familiar narrative strikes just the right chord of drama and emotion ( Scrooge's gradual softening of character is entirely plausible here because his back-story is dealt with in sufficient detail throughout the ghostly visitations ) ? not to mention thrills ( Hordern's wailing Marley is quite scary , as is the sudden shrouded appearance of the Ghost Of Christmas Future ) . By the way , I've never really understood the need behind having to watch the same festive films year in year out ( as some movie buffs are prone to doing ) but , if ever I get the inclination for this myself at Christmas , the 1951 version of SCROOGE ? as well as the Bing Crosby-Fred Astaire musical HOLIDAY INN ( 1942 ; see below ) ? would surely be prime contenders . . . P . S . As has too often been the case these past few months , I didn't have time to go through the extras on the " Collector's Edition " ( apart , that is , from the earlier 1935 version which preceded it ) . By now , I have amassed a considerable backlog of bonus material ( especially Audio Commentaries ) ? which , with a new year looming , requires me to do some serious thinking about how to tackle it . Perhaps I should devote week-ends to such ' extraneous ' stuff : consequently , this should allow me enough time to tidy up any film reviews which may have been left over from the preceding week ? without the pressure of having to write fresh ones for titles added to my official track-list in the interim , as I find myself often having to do at present . . .
FORBIDDEN GAMES ( Rene ' Clement , 1952 )	This is Rene Clement's most celebrated and arguably best film despite being only the fifth film of his I have watched ; for the record , I also have CHE GIOIA VIVERE ( 1960 ) on VHS and IS Paris BURNING ? ( 1966 ) on DVD and would certainly like to catch up with a few others , especially LES MAUDITS ( 1947 ) , GERVAISE ( 1956 ) and AND HOPE TO DIE ( 1972 ) . Apparently , FORBIDDEN GAMES only became a feature film after Jacques Tati's encouragement and , if so , one needs to be grateful to him as the film is one of the most poignant ( and controversial ) depictions of childhood innocence on film and its influence is evident in later similarly-themed films like Philip Leacock's INNOCENT SINNERS ( 1958 ) . Clement opens his film with a harrowing and totally realistic air-raid sequence but proceeds with a charming and humorous depiction of simple farm life which revolves around the household , church and cemetery ; the latter two settings , in fact , host two of the film's most entertaining sequences . Of course , the paradox of the children's love for animals and the need to populate their secret cemetery ( and utilizing stolen crosses no less ) is only the direct result of the children's impossibility of grasping the world around them : the children's cruelty to animals ( the boy's stabbing of a cockroach with a pen , for example ) is just as sensible to him as the barrage of bombs which the " civilized " adults throw at each other day in day out . The remarkable performances by the two young children ( Brigitte Fossey and Georges Poujouly ) are certainly among the finest of their kind but the film also takes care to offer eccentric characters for its relatively unknown ensemble cast to sink their teeth in , including an early role for familiar character actor Jacques Marin as the ill-fated Georges , whose untimely death has a pivotal bearing on the film's plot . To top it all , FORBIDDEN GAMES is blessed by a haunting guitar score by Narciso Yepes .
THUNDER ROCK ( Roy Boulting , 1942 )	I had always wanted to watch this in view of its fantasy elements ; I knew of the bare-bones R2 DVD but , considering the variable quality of prints available for old ( and rare ) British films , I was on the fence about purchasing it - the favorable DVD Beaver review , then , proved the deciding factor . Given the little information there is about the film , I didn't quite know what to expect : as it turned out , the propagandist elements are as much to the fore but it's really the various human dramas contained within that are its most compelling aspect . Michael Redgrave ( in one of his best roles ) is the lone lighthouse keeper who was once a spokesman against the onslaught of Fascism ( shown in a sequence of montages that clearly bear the influence of CITIZEN KANE [ 1941 ] ) , who has retired from the world when his warnings were dismissed . He's able to withstand his remote existence by imagining how the passengers of a ship who drowned 90 years earlier near the titular location lived ! ; these events are then enacted for us and , with the help of ship's captain Finlay Currie ' acting ' as mediator , he's able to communicate with them ! ! This concept was not only very original but also rather cerebral ( especially for the time ) and is certainly its most intriguing trait ; interestingly , all the passengers , like Redgrave himself , seem to be escaping from the intolerance of their own era ! The life-stories of the individual passengers ( though , for obvious reasons of time constraint , the writers opted to focus on only three ) are all somewhat melodramatic but the one involving progressive doctor Frederick Valk and Lili Palmer ( who even has feelings for Redgrave , i . e . he imagines she has ! ) is the most engaging . The plot and setting allowed the director and cameraman ( Max Greene , who later shot Jules Dassin's British-made noir NIGHT AND THE CITY [ 1950 ] ) to experiment with light and shadow which , along with the literary dialogue ( it was adapted from a play by Robert Ardrey that was intended to urge America into World War II , which had already happened by the time the film came out ! ) and the marvelous ensemble acting , emerges as one of the film's most impressive qualities . As a matter of fact , the cast was made up of established , upcoming and ( to me ) unfamiliar names but , apart from the ones already mentioned , James Mason's all-too brief appearance as Redgrave's sparring pal - who has no qualms about doing his thing for the war effort - is especially notable . The climax , too , is terrific : first , we have the ' ghosts ' realizing what has really happened to them ( shades of " Outward Bound " but also looking forward to THE SIXTH SENSE [ 1999 ] ) and , then , their refusal to ' leave ' unless Redgrave goes back to civilization and do his duty ( his being dominated by entities he's supposed to be controlling himself , interestingly enough , foreshadows his unforgettable turn as the Ventriloquist in the celebrated horror compendium DEAD OF NIGHT [ 1945 ] - which , incidentally , also featured Valk as a doomed doctor ! ) . The Boulting Brothers - John produced the film while his twin brother Roy directed it , but they often exchanged roles ! - always liked to tackle topical subjects and , though they later concentrated on satires , their sober earlier efforts were no less effective as clearly demonstrated by this neglected gem but also the noir about the British underworld BRIGHTON ROCK ( 1947 ) and the semi-documentary anti-Nuclear tale SEVEN DAYS TO NOON ( 1950 ) .
VICTIM ( Basil Dearden , 1961 )	One of the best , if largely neglected , British films of the 60s ( perhaps because it wasn't made by an auteur ) ; despite receiving a couple of citations ( mentioned below ) , this controversial classic was conspicuously absent from the BAFTA's Best Film category - while a number of less deserving titles were ( in my opinion , Oscar consideration should not have been amiss either for such a fine piece ) ! The first film to openly deal with homosexuality - and especially the way it's looked at in Britain , where it was considered a criminal offense till 1966 ! - it does so in a very subtle and adult ( i . e . unsensationalistic ) manner . Cleverly , the excellent script ( a deserving BAFTA nominee ) approaches its delicate theme by way of a thriller plot involving several eminent personalities being targeted by a gang of blackmailers ; the details of their ' scandalous ' behavior is held off for as long as possible , which actually serves to suck the audience into the narrative from the very start . Interestingly , while several actors refused to appear in it , at least two well-known ( and highly-respected ) stars - Dirk Bogarde and Dennis Price - who were actually gay risked their reputation by not flinching from the material ! However , while Bogarde's career subsequently flourished with mature works for Joseph Losey and Luchino Visconti among others , Price's spiralled downwards and mostly degraded himself with thankless roles in cheap , sleazy exploitation fare ( most notably for Jesus Franco ) ! Tellingly , however , the film still cautiously depicts Bogarde as trying to suppress his true feelings and seek to live out a normal life with his on-screen wife Sylvia Syms who , uncharacteristically perhaps , also opts to stick by her man and face the upcoming turmoil together . Having said that , Bogarde had just played another sexually ambiguous character in Roy Ward Baker's eccentric semi-Western THE SINGER NOT THE SONG ( 1961 ) - in which his black-clad villain seems more interested in parson John Mills than leading lady Mylene Demongeot - and would go on to do so again in Visconti's DEATH IN VENICE ( 1971 ) . The entire cast of VICTIM - including plum roles for Norman Bird , Charles Lloyd Pack , Peter McEnery , Derren Nesbitt and Nigel Stock - delivers superb ( and sometimes moving ) performances , with Bogarde ( also a BAFTA nominee ) in peak form ; his sensitive scenes with Syms are especially effective . Production values receive equal consideration , with Otto Heller's striking location photography leading the pack . Basil Dearden ( whose film career ended prematurely with his tragic death in a car accident in 1971 ) may not have been one of the great directors but his career is a distinguished one and he tackled efficiently most types of subjects ; like VICTIM , however , his most notable work was done in the thriller genre - the seminal THE BLUE LAMP ( 1950 ; also featuring Bogarde ) , the racially-sensitive SAPPHIRE ( 1959 ) and the lighthearted caper THE LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN ( 1960 ) .
FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE ( Sam Taylor , 1926 )	This is one of Harold Lloyd's least-known films and , consequently , perhaps his most underrated feature ; I was first made aware of this factor by Leonard Maltin's awarding it the full rating in his Film Guide and , ever since that time , I've been pining to catch up with it ! Now that I've watched it for myself , I can say that the film is an undoubted classic ( certainly among Lloyd's best work ) and the only reason that I didn't quite go all the way with my own rating is the fact that , even for its brief 58-minute running-time , the plot line is somewhat thin : Harold is a millionaire who becomes the unwitting benefactor of a modest mission ; believing himself to have been conned into such a position , he determines to put a stop to it - that is , until he meets and falls for pretty missionary's daughter Jobyna Ralston . Then , he resolves to attract customers to the joint - which , considering that the neighborhood is filled with tough guys and gangsters , this will take considerable resource on his part . Nevertheless , he succeeds and the men eventually become fond of him so that , when Lloyd's impending marriage to Ralston is announced in the papers and his rich society-pals decide to ' save ' him from such a fate , the gang take action to bring the couple back together again . While clearly reminiscent of what is perhaps Charlie Chaplin's greatest short , EASY STREET ( 1917 ) , the film's level of gags and the star's typical ingenuity is extremely high - with only the gangsters ' drunken havoc during its last third overstaying its welcome ; this section , however , leads to one of Lloyd's most hair-raising stunts - actually inspired by similar scenes in both GET OUT AND GET UNDER ( 1920 ) and GIRL SHY ( 1924 ) - as a double-decker bus ( with atop it the star and his ' flock ' ) races driverless along busy city streets on its way to Harold's wedding . Other hilarious highlights include : the early destruction of two cars owned by our reckless hero - the first happens because of a crate of cat food in the middle of the street , which the black chauffeur mistakes for the real thing and tries to avoid but ends up slamming straight into another car , while the second contrives to run out of gas on a railway track and is summarily scuttled by an oncoming train ; as well as another re-used ( this time from GRANDMA'S BOY [ 1922 ] ) but undeniably irresistible routine involving the indigestible ' cakes ' which Lloyd is made to eat by his beloved at the mission .
THE BURMESE HARP ( Kon Ichikawa , 1956 )	This is one of the best-known and most impressive anti-war films ? a companion piece to the same director's later , if more cynical , FIRES ON THE PLAIN ( 1959 ) ? and , arguably , Ichikawa's finest . Its 1985 remake ? also made by Ichikawa ! ? is , curiously , not mentioned at all in the interviews that accompany the movie on Criterion's exemplary DVD ( though , admittedly , I haven't read the booklet ) . While I usually cringe at the sentimental songs that frequently crop up in Japanese films , here , this element is actually integral to the plot : the hero ? a soldier thought dead , missing or AWOL ? has learnt to play the titular instrument and used to complement with music the heartfelt singing of his companions ( instigated by their music-lover captain for morale-boosting purposes ) . Having become a monk , the soldier is staying at a Buddhist temple ; at one point , while his outfit is looking for him in the vicinity , he instinctively resumes to playing the harp when they break into song ? but he's determined not to return home with them ( following the defeat and capitulation of the Japanese army ) because of a spiritual calling by which he is to give dignified , honorary burial to the mass of dead comrades still lying around the battlefields of Burma , putrefying and at the mercy of prowling vultures . Given the importance of music in the film , Akira Ifukube contributes a powerful and memorable score . Ichikawa had first intended to shoot the film in color , but the cumbersome equipment couldn't be carried on location ? so , he stuck to black-and-white ; consequently , he relied on expressive lighting to bring out all the various aspects of war such as honor , comradeship , fatigue , despair , fear of death , loneliness and , ultimately , serenity . While there are a few harrowing scenes , they're not at the forefront as they would be in the afore-mentioned FIRES ON THE PLAIN ; that film was basically a character study of a private driven to madness and cannibalism by the experience of war : as I said at the beginning , this shows the other side of the coin with respect to the effect of combat on a human being ? where the inherent grimness is overcome by a selfless embrace of asceticism . Incidentally , Ichikawa made a very different and less optimistic film about a monk with CONFLAGRATION ( 1958 ) ? which preceded this viewing : in my review for that film , I mentioned that the director employed an interesting technique to jump from the past into the present and back again ; here , we're not shown immediately what led to the hero's ' conversion ' ? but this is eventually shown in poignant flashback . The film may be considered longish at 116 minutes , but the emotions driving the narrative are so strong and honest that one hardly notices it ; even if most of the actors are unfamiliar , Ichikawa brings out the best in each of them and , in particular , the two protagonists : Shoji Yasui ( as the soldier / monk ? he had a rather brief career ) and Rentaro Mikuni ( as his compassionate superior officer ? he appeared in such acclaimed films as KWAIDAN [ 1964 ] and VENGEANCE IS MINE [ 1979 ] ) . The extras are the icing on the cake : Ichikawa's interview ( he died only recently and this , in fact , instigated the viewing of the film ) details plenty of behind-the-scenes anecdotes and also states that , when THE BURMESE HARP won a prize at the Venice Film Festival , he wasn't even aware that it had been submitted for competition ! Mikuni's interview is shorter yet quite candid : he recounts that his own war duty being still fresh in his mind , he wouldn't stand for compromises in authenticity ( brought on by a tight schedule more than anything else ) and , at one point , he even stalled the film for a week because of this ; he also gives due credit to scriptwriter Natto Wada ( the director's own wife ) , who was the only person allowed in the editing room and whose suggestions often led to reshoots , and ends his interview with a plea to put a stop to war once and for all !
THE LIFE OF EMILE ZOLA ( William Dieterle , 1937 )	Of Paul Muni's three biographical films made at Warner Bros . and directed by William Dieterle ( the others were THE STORY OF LOUIS PASTEUR [ 1936 ] and JUAREZ [ 1939 ] ) , this was the only one which had never been shown on TV in my neck of the woods ; ironically , it was the first to make it to DVD - but , then again , it is the most highly-regarded of them ! Still , given the film's reputation ( Best Picture Oscar Winner , Leonard Maltin rates it in his " Movies & Video Guide " ) , I somehow expected a masterpiece - but , personally , I feel that Dieterle's THE DEVIL AND DANIEL WEBSTER ( 1941 ) and THE HUNCHBACK OF NOTRE DAME ( 1939 ) are greater achievements . Even so , it's been sometime since I watched a vintage old-style Hollywood film ; of late , I've mostly been concentrating on Euro-Cult and World Cinema stuff - but , really , there's no beating the professionalism and sheer entertainment value of a product from the cinema's Golden Age ! The film strikes a good balance between Zola's literary career and his struggles for social justice : the latter is mostly devoted to the Dreyfus affair , a veritable cause celebre at the time ( cinematically treated two more times in DREYFUS [ 1931 ] and I ACCUSE [ 1958 ] , neither of which I've watched though the latter had turned up some years back on late-night Italian TV ! ) , culminating in one of the finest courtroom scenes ever filmed . Production values are top-notch , the Oscar-winning script appropriately literate ( though the constant speechifying and the film's two-hour length - by contrast , LOUIS PASTEUR had been less than 90 minutes but , then , the epic and star-studded JUAREZ was longer still - make for a somewhat heavy-going experience ) and Dieterle's handling virtually impeccable ; the only unpersuasive aspect , perhaps , is the one-dimensional portrayal of the corrupt French military who callously sent Dreyfus to Devil's Island for treason , and left him there to rot for years - even after they had found absolute proof of his innocence , because that would have meant admitting to a mistake ! The cast is filled with wonderful characters actors whose familiarity - and reliability - allows utmost audience involvement every step of the way , despite Hollywood's typically idealized viewing of events . Best of all , naturally , are Muni as Zola ( simply brilliant , especially during his show-stopping speech at the trial , and who even ages convincingly ! ) and Schildkraut ( a touching Dreyfus who , in spite of his relatively brief appearance , managed to walk off with the Best Supporting Actor Oscar - though , personally , I would have voted for H . B . Warner in LOST HORIZON [ 1937 ] ! ) . Unfortunately , the audio level on Warner's otherwise exemplary DVD is rather low ; the supplements include three vintage shorts ( described in more detail below ) , as well as the full 1-hour broadcast of a radio adaptation of the script ( obviously compressed but also including some minor additions ) - presented by Leslie Howard ( who , at the end , even interviews William Dieterle ! ) and featuring Muni himself , accompanied by Josephine Hutchinson ( stepping in for Gloria Holden , who had played Zola's wife in the film ) .
IT ALWAYS RAINS ON Sunday ( Robert Hamer , 1947 )	Ealing Studios are chiefly remembered nowadays for their string of classic comedies made between 1946-55 but they also put out several notable pictures in other genres - including the justly celebrated horror portmanteau DEAD OF NIGHT ( 1945 ) - and this noir-ish melodrama is definitely one of their hidden gems . Although the plot per se is no great shakes - an escaped convict hides out in his by-now-married ex-flame's household - the idea was still fresh at the time and the film's marrying of the realistic and evocative recreation of daily life and surroundings ( here being the seamier side of London's East End ) with the exciting chase thriller format was much admired in its day and , in hindsight , very influential . The good cast is headed by the formidable Googie Withers as the embittered housewife whose life of drab domesticity comes crashing down around her with the sudden reappearance of her lover ( John McCallum , and Withers ' own real-life husband-to-be ) who demands food and shelter until he can skip the country ; her much older , unassuming husband is played by frequent Norman Wisdom sidekick Edward Chapman and the pursuing police detective by the ubiquitous Jack Warner who cornered such roles in British films of the era , most notably in Basil Dearden's THE BLUE LAMP ( 1950 ) ; Chapman's three children are each having problems of their own and their frequent comings-and-goings in the house during this particular Sunday ( the film is set all in one day ) brings long-suppressed tensions to the fore . Even without the eye-catching use of the medium of somebody like Carol Reed , the film is beautifully handled by the talented but ill-fated Robert Hamer - who , among other things , would later direct that which is undoubtedly Ealing's most famous comedy , KIND HEARTS AND CORONETS ( 1949 ) - and the climactic sequence ( expertly lit , as always , by Douglas Slocombe ) in which all the various strands of plot and secondary characters are seamlessly woven together is simply exquisite . Optimum Releasing also included a featurette with film historian George Perry - who , incidentally , introduced THE BIG SLEEP ( 1946 ) at the recent National Film Theatre screening in London I attended ; unfortunately , I encountered some playback problems on my Pioneer DVD player even before the start of the main feature but the R2 disc played without a hitch on my cheap HB model .
HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO ( Preston Sturges , 1944 )	Curiously enough , while I do admire and enjoy most of Sturges ' films , I've never been quite as taken with him as his reputation would seem to demand . Nevertheless , I fully acknowledge his standing as one of the most important figures in Comedy . The thing is that , having started off as a writer ( like his contemporary Billy Wilder ) , Sturges ' peerless talent in this department kind of swamps his technical side ( which is boldly integrated into the comedies of Frank Capra whereas it's more refined , but still palpable , in those of Ernst Lubitsch ) ? so that his films come across as undeniably erudite ( which , however , clashes at times with their small-town settings and working-class characters ) but also a bit loquacious ! For me , the best comedy director remains Howard Hawks ? in whose work the form not only appears effortless but is actually made to transcend genre ( thus acquiring an artistry without resorting to undue camera gymnastics or editorial tricks ) . What Sturges ' films may have lacked besides was that he rarely worked with bona-fide stars ; instead , he amassed an enviable repertory of character actors around him and then let them rip ? with the consequence that most of his canon emerges to be undisciplined and tiresomely frenetic ! Anyway , after that rambling introduction , let's get down to the issue at hand : HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO can surely be counted among Sturges ' finest . As were all of his films , it's an absolute original but also somewhat audacious ( his previous outing , THE MIRACLE OF MORGAN'S CREEK [ 1944 ] , had tackled an even more outrageous and controversial theme ) ? this being a wartime comedy about the put-down of hero-worship ! The plot sees milquetoast hero Eddie Bracken rejected for war duty because of hay fever ; not wanting to break his mother's heart ( his father was a hero of the previous war , incidentally ) , he only returns home after a year . He meets up with six marines on leave ( the Sergeant among them happens to have served with Bracken's father ) and they contrive to get him a hero's reception , thinking that all will blow over once they're there . However , the whole town shows up to greet him at the station with due fanfare ? he's clearly embarrassed at this , but the soldiers persuade him to go along with the ruse for the time being . The situation escalates further when the town decides to erect a statue in Bracken's honor and , eventually , pushes him into an electoral campaign for the Mayor's seat ! There's a predictably upbeat ending , following a Capra-esquire speech in which Bracken confesses the truth about his ' war record ' , where the people decide they still want him because ? for once ? they've been faced with an honest declaration ! ! Eddie Bracken may have had too limited a range to make it as a comic genius in the Bob Hope mold , but he certainly fit the Preston Sturges universe ( characteristically , he's given an unwieldy ? and ironic ? name here ) . Leading the Sturges stock company is William Demarest as the fixer of a Sergeant who lands Bracken in more trouble with every new scheme to aid his ' case ' ( a memorable scene early on sees him attempting to trade service at a café with a collection of war ' mementos ' , only to have the owner turn out to be even more supplied with such worthless trinkets than he is ! ) . Other members include typically well-meaning but perennially flustered Franklin Pangborn ( his efforts to organize multiple bands at Bracken's reception are continually frustrated through lack of cooperation or outright incompetence from those concerned ) , Raymond Walburn ( as the pompous and unpopular current mayor ? whose similarly insensitive offspring is naturally engaged to Dad's secretary , the lovely Ella Raines ) and , in smaller roles , Al Bridge , Jimmy Conlin and Torben Meyer . Raines herself ? whom I'd only seen in film noirs ? gets quite a well-rounded character ( though her longing for a homespun life alongside Bracken feels decidedly idealized ) . Also notable is ex-boxing champ Freddie Steele , playing an orphaned soldier who finds in Bracken's mother a surrogate parent ? often berating him ( both verbally and physically ) for what he deems Bracken's inconsiderate behavior towards her ! This subplot introduces an element of sentimentality into the fray , which usually bothers me , but it was quite amusing here to see a big man like Steele go soft every so often . I should be getting soon to Sturges ' most misunderstood film , THE GREAT MOMENT ( 1944 ) , which would then leave me with only his little-seen directorial swan song ? THE FRENCH , THEY ARE A FUNNY RACE aka THE DIARY OF MAJOR THOMPSON ( 1955 ) ? to catch up with from his brief but highly individualistic oeuvre . . .
SONS AND LOVERS ( Jack Cardiff , 1960 )	This exquisite adaptation of D . H . Lawrence's novel is famed cinematographer Jack Cardiff's most accomplished film as a director ; in fact , he was nominated and indeed won several major Best Direction awards ( including the Golden Globe ) . Sadly , none of his other directorial efforts were anywhere near as rewarding although I'd still like to watch at least 2 of them - the epic THE LONG SHIPS ( 1963 ) and the horror film THE MUTATIONS ( 1974 ; a SE DVD of which has been released under the title THE FREAKMAKER ) . Amazingly , this was a Hollywood production ( made by 20th Century Fox ) and , as such , leading man Dean Stockwell ( who was probably never better ) was imposed on Cardiff by producer Jerry Wald - though he seems to have been pleased with his performance . The acting of the Oscar-nominated Trevor Howard ( as Stockwell's boorish and drunkard coal-miner father ) and Mary Ure ( as the married but separated young suffragette with whom Stockwell has an affair ) , as well as Wendy Hiller ( as his strong but possessive mother ) , is irreproachable . The supporting cast includes Ernest Thesiger ( in one of his last films ) and Donald Pleasence , with both unfortunately having limited screen-time . Freddie Francis ' luminous black-and-white cinematography earned the film its only Oscar ; interestingly , Francis also followed in Cardiff's footsteps and became a film director himself ( with similarly erratic results , ironically enough ) . Mario Nascimbene's lovely music score and the film's vivid recreation of an era ( in authentic locations , no less ) add immeasurably to its lasting impression . The coal-mine setting recalls earlier films like Carol Reed's THE STARS LOOK DOWN ( 1939 ) and John Ford's HOW GREEN WAS MY VALLEY ( 1941 ) , with which it can be favorably compared . Still , for all its quaint Englishness and the inherent sentimentality of its narrative , the film is a remarkably adult and frank depiction of sexual and artistic awakening vis-à-vis repressed Edwardian society and , together with Ken Russell's equally celebrated adaptation of WOMEN IN LOVE ( 1969 ) , remains undoubtedly the finest screen rendition of D . H . Lawrence's work . It's a shame , therefore , that this is as yet unavailable on R1 DVD but the R2 edition I own is a more than adequate substitute , with a very nice-looking print of the main feature , surprisingly strong audio and , apart from the basic supplements of the original theatrical trailer and a stills gallery , features a wonderful interview with Cardiff about the making of SONS AND LOVERS ( interspersed with relevant clips from the film itself ) which clocks in at around half-an-hour .
THINGS TO COME { Edited Version } ( William Cameron Menzies , 1936 )	This Alexander Korda production - adapted for the screen by visionary author H . G . Wells from his own novel - can be seen as a companion piece to Fritz Lang's equally mesmerizing and fanciful METROPOLIS ( 1927 ) ; incidentally , this viewing of THINGS TO COME came via the budget DVD from Diamond Entertainment , where it was actually paired with Lang's film ! I know the film has been available over the years in various versions ( running anywhere between 92 and 130 minutes ) ; various sites and articles have been dedicated to this masterpiece of sci-fi cinema , delineating the cut footage ( which seems to amount to snipped dialogue within existing scenes rather than entire missing passages , thus explaining the many noticeable jump-cuts throughout the film ) . The Diamond print - dark as it was and with rather muffled dialogue - was 95 minutes long ( though the trademark London Films opening logo is absent here while , at the conclusion , the scene just fades out without a superimposed " The End " or anything ! ) ; incidentally , the upcoming ( though too often delayed ) R2 DVD from Network has been announced as being a restored 119-minute version - and also to be confirmed is the rumor that Criterion has acquired the Korda library , and the film may therefore be released by them somewhere down the line . . . Wells , one of the most important exponents of science fiction , seems to have an ambiguous attitude towards progress ; while the villains in the film are portrayed in a somewhat one-dimensional manner as either despots ( Ralph Richardson ) or agitators ( Cedric Hardwicke - replacing Ernest Thesiger ) , the over-optimistic hero Cabal ( Raymond Massey ) comes off as no less ruthless in his drive for evolution . Naïve and exaggerated though Wells ' predictions turned out to be ( if not entirely inaccurate - war was indeed just around the corner , while the notions of video and even space travel have certainly come to pass ! ) , there's no denying the ambition and scope of his script and Korda and production designer / director Menzies ' dynamic and dazzlingly imaginative realization of it . Especially compelling is the lengthy section devoted to the war , enhanced by a number of brilliant montages - the work of William Hornbeck ; despite - or , perhaps , because of - their Art Deco look , the concluding space-age scenes are pretty staid in comparison . Other assets are to be found in Arthur Bliss ' powerful score , Vincent Korda's impressive sets and the marvelous special-effects work by Harry Zech and Ned Mann . The cast is peppered with established or up-and-coming British stars but - with the possible exception of Margaretta Scott as Richardson's femme fatale-ish companion ( also cast as Massey's wife of 2036 , all her later scenes have been deleted from current prints but she can be seen in surviving stills ) - the three thespians mentioned above dominate the proceedings with their showy roles . In the end , even if I'm aware of its dismal reputation , I'd be interested in checking out the film's 1979 remake ( under the title of Wells ' original book , THE SHAPE OF THINGS TO COME ) starring Jack Palance - though , I guess , not enough to cough up my hard-earned cash for the Blue Underground DVD . . .
CROSSFIRE ( Edward Dmytryk , 1947 )	The real Best Picture of 1947 also deals with Anti-Semitism and is superior to Elia Kazan's GENTLEMEN'S AGREEMENT ( the eventual winner at that year's Academy Awards ) in practically every department . Edmard Dmytryk's near-perfect direction , John Paxton's terse script and J . Roy Hunt's expert Expressionist lighting are wonderfully abetted by a superb ensemble cast . Although Robert Young ( playing an easy-going , methodical and very likable cop ) and Robert Mitchum ( who actually does have the occasional throwaway witty remark ) are the nominal stars of the film , it's Oscar nominees Robert Ryan and Gloria Grahame - as well as Paul Kelly , in the small but pivotal role of Grahame's pathetic husband - who give the film's most memorable characterizations ; Ryan proved so convincing as a homicidal racist that he was eventually typecast for a while , excelling in equally villainous roles in such films as ACT OF VIOLENCE ( 1948 ) , CAUGHT ( 1948 ) , THE RACKET ( 1951 ) , CLASH BY NIGHT ( 1952 ) , THE NAKED SPUR ( 1953 ) and BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK ( 1955 ) . The film is also notable for its atypical structure in that Ryan's " flashback " sequence , a complete fabrication , is shot in a straightforward manner while the actual truth emerges from the hazy , distorted recollections of the real protagonist of the film who , furthermore , isn't even played by any of the film's stars ! Also , CROSSFIRE was originally to have treated homosexuality ( as per Richard Brooks ' original source novel , " The Brick Foxhole " ) but this taboo subject was unacceptable to the Hays Office at the time - a far cry from the situation we have today when ( at least ) 3 gay-themed films are in the running for this years ' major Oscars ! The print utilized for Warners ' DVD transfer shows some regrettable signs of wear-and-tear at times but the Audio Commentary by noir experts , James Ursini and Alain Silver , is a good one , even though I don't happen to share their opinion that Dmytryk's career declined steadily after his HUAC troubles , as such excellent pictures as THE SNIPER ( 1952 ) , THE CAINE MUTINY ( 1954 ) , BROKEN LANCE ( 1954 ) , THE YOUNG LIONS ( 1958 ) , WARLOCK ( 1959 ) and MIRAGE ( 1965 ) amply prove ; having said that his collaborations at RKO with producer Adrian Scott and screenwriter John Paxton - MURDER , MY SWEET ( 1944 ) , CORNERED ( 1945 ; hopefully this will be part of the next Film Noir Box Set from Warners ) and CROSSFIRE - do constitute his best work . In any case , in my opinion , the latter is not only one of the key films of the 1940s but also one of the finest noirs ever made , period .
THE KID BROTHER ( Ted Wilde , J . A . Howe and , uncredited , Lewis Milestone , 1927 )	Arguably Harold Lloyd's greatest film , made contemporaneously with Buster Keaton's equivalent , THE GENERAL ( 1927 ) ; interestingly , while the former was a box-office hit , the latter's reception was more lukewarm - its reputation having been cemented ( indeed vindicated ) with time ; ultimately , while THE KID BROTHER may lack the scope of Keaton's masterwork , it's no less meticulously crafted or well filmed . Still , it's not quite as renowned as other Lloyds - such as SAFETY LAST ! ( 1923 ) or THE FRESHMAN ( 1925 ) - which actually makes its discovery as an unequivocal gem , not only in the pantheon of comedy but among the finest productions of the Silent era , all the more sweeter ! The plot was admittedly borrowed from the famous Silent melodrama TOL'ABLE David ( 1921 ) - which I've never watched myself - but , like THE GENERAL , it seamlessly mingles dazzling comic invention with a serious ( a sure indication of this is the fact that it dispenses entirely with Lloyd's typically sarcastic title cards ) , compelling and exciting plot line ; in this case , Harold ( again , like Keaton's rejected soldier ) has to prove he's the equal of his stalwart family by standing up to the villain - a sinister-looking medicine-show strongman - and recover a cache of stolen money , thus righting a wrong done his father ( largely at the instigation of his eternal rival - the long-lasting family feud had also been utilized by Keaton for one of his most beautiful films , OUR HOSPITALITY [ 1923 ] ) . It's quite futile to mention individual gags from the film because it has a plethora of them , all being incredibly clever ( apart from hilarious ) and are milked for all they're worth - generally so as to play up to the resourcefulness of our hero . As a matter of fact , the film rarely pauses for breath between one set-piece and the next - while the last half-hour ( largely confined to an offshore boat ) is thrillingly packed with intense action and suspense , as it speeds towards a happy resolution of all its various plot strands . Jobyna Ralston is once again Lloyd's leading lady here ; actually , this proved to be their last collaboration . I've failed to mention before now the invaluable contribution which the scores by either Carl Davis or Robert Israel have contributed to these Silent films , but Davis ' sterling work here ( composed for Kevin Brownlow's Photoplay re-issue of 1990 ) is particularly effective . By the way , the film was started by Lewis Milestone but had to step down from the director's chair due to a contractual dispute ; it was taken over by Ted Wilde but even he was replaced ( by J . A . Howe ) at some later point after he was struck by an illness ; this led to the film's shooting schedule extending to a six-month period - but all these various calamities , thankfully , didn't affect the ultimate quality of THE KID BROTHER one bit ! P . S . The film was partly shot on the spot where Forest Lawn cemetery ( where many a Hollywood star is buried ) was eventually built - and which happens to be located near the Universal studio offices that host the New York Film Academy classes I attended last year !
KING-SIZE CANARY ( Tex Avery , 1947 )	This has always been a favorite cartoon of mine but it was only several years later that I became aware of its reputation as not only one of Avery's greatest cartoons , but the fact that it also exemplifies the delirious heights of invention to which the field could aspire during its heyday . A measure of the cartoon's standing is the fact that it ranked tenth in a 1994 poll compiling the 50 greatest cartoons ever , and was even picked by noted biographer / historian Simon Louvish as being one of the ten best films of all time for the influential " Sight & Sound " poll of 2002 ! The plot sees a ravenous cat finding only a sickly canary to feed on ; noticing a bottle of " Jumbo Gro " ( intended for the artificial growth of flowers ) , it forces a couple of gulps down the bird's throat ? resulting in the latter towering above the feline itself ! At this , the cat drinks from the bottle itself ( so that the size of its meal can become , once again , manageable ) but carelessly throws away the recipient ? which is then picked up by a mouse and , subsequently , a vicious-looking bulldog ( with , every time one takes a sip from it , expanding to an outrageous size ) ! Soon , they're chasing each other and leaping over the tallest buildings ; eventually , the " stuff " runs out ? leaving the cat and the mouse at an equivalent dimension ? except that they're so big now the two of them are literally standing on top of the world !
THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD ( Michael Curtiz and William Keighley , 1938 )	Possibly the greatest ( and most celebrated ) of swashbucklers , it's also the best Robin Hood film ( once again improving on Douglas Fairbanks ' already impressive Silent version ) and Errol Flynn's finest hour : delightful script ( not only providing several great lines for the actors to sink their teeth into - Claude Rains ' Prince John in particular - but it's put in the service of a plot which remains absorbing despite its over-familiarity ) , beautiful three-color cinematography ( by no less than three top-notch cameramen ! ) and costumes , an outstanding and Oscar-winning Erich Wolfgang Korngold score ( he virtually composed all of Flynn's swashbucklers and some of the best Warner Bros . films from this period ) , expansive sets ( Hollywood credibly standing in for 12th century England - Carl Jules Weyl's art direction receiving another Oscar , with a third going to Ralph Dawson's exciting editing ) . It might well be the epitome of Hollywood entertainment during its golden era with the colorful legendary characters - all flawlessly enacted by one of the best casts ever brought together for one film - supplying comedy ( and not just that involving Una O'Connor and Herbert Mundin , which I didn't find as icky as I remembered it ! ) , drama and romance ( Flynn and Olivia De Havilland's Maid Marian not only are cinema's last word on this famous fictional couple , but their pairing here also proved to be the highpoint of their lengthy on-screen collaboration which stretched to 8 films ) ; not forgetting , of course , countless unforgettable and stirring action scenes : the ambush in Sherwood Forest , the contest for the Golden Arrow , Robin's escape from the gallows , the final storming of the castle ( highlighted by one of the best-remembered duels ever to grace the silver screen between Flynn and Basil Rathbone's Guy of Gisbourne ) , etc . Interestingly , three actors - Rathbone , Eugene Palette and Montagu Love - would go on to co-star together again in another equally renowned swashbuckler , THE MARK OF ZORRO ( 1940 ; which I also just rewatched ) : Love , then , can be seen as well in yet one more similar film - the definitive 1937 version of THE PRISONER OF ZENDA ( which is forthcoming on DVD from Warners as part of a " Literary Classics Collection " and coupled with its inferior 1952 scene-for-scene remake ) ; incidentally , all of these classics virtually constitute the three top titles in the entire swashbuckling genre ! Curiously enough , the film was started by William Keighley ( apart from having helmed the Flynn swashbuckler THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER [ 1937 ] , he had been responsible for Warners ' previous venture into three-strip Technicolor GOD'S COUNTRY AND THE WOMAN [ 1937 ] ) . However , studio executives were dissatisfied with how the action sequences had turned out and summarily handed the film over to Michael Curtiz - who had directed Flynn in his two most popular vehicles up to this point , CAPTAIN BLOOD ( 1935 ) and THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE ( 1936 ) ; neither he nor Flynn , apparently , were happy with this decision as they despised one another : nonetheless they made all of 12 films together , several of them bona-fide classics . In the end , this has certainly made me want to pick up the " Errol Flynn Signature Collection " ( also featuring a documentary on the notorious star ) a . s . a . p . - especially since I haven't watched these films for what seems like ages - but I won't be doing so immediately , given that a second set is actually coming in March ; that said , of the 10 films included , only 1 will be a first-time viewing for me - THE DAWN PATROL ( 1938 ) - but it would still be great to have these childhood favorites readily available on the new medium ( rather than in the worn , and often colorized , prints I've had to make do with up till now ) ! Needless to say , there have been scores of films about this popular character and , going by the IMDb , apart from the afore-mentioned 1922 Douglas Fairbanks ROBIN HOOD , I've also watched the following : THE STORY OF ROBIN HOOD AND HIS MERRIE MEN ( 1952 ; a live-action Walt Disney version ) , SWORD OF SHERWOOD FOREST ( 1960 ; a Hammer Films effort directed by Terence Fisher and co-starring Peter Cushing as the Sheriff of Nottingham ! ) , ROBIN HOOD ( 1973 ; the Disney animated feature ) , ROBIN AND MARIAN ( 1976 ) , ROBIN HOOD ( 1991 ; TV ) and ROBIN HOOD - PRINCE OF THIEVES ( 1991 ) . Still , the IMDb listings appear to be incomplete , as at least the first two among those I would like to watch are omitted : THE BANDIT OF SHERWOOD FOREST ( 1946 ) , ROGUES OF SHERWOOD FOREST ( 1950 ; Alan Hale's third and last stab at the character of Little John , following those of the 1922 and 1938 classics ! ) , THE MEN OF SHERWOOD FOREST ( 1954 ; if only because it's directed by Val Guest ) , ROBIN AND THE 7 HOODS ( 1964 ; a musicalized version featuring The Rat Pack and reset to 1920s Chicago ) , A CHALLENGE FOR ROBIN HOOD ( 1967 ; another Hammer Films variation ) , L'ARCIERE DI SHERWOOD ( 1970 ; a " Euro-Cult " obscurity directed by Giorgio Ferroni and starring Giuliano Gemma ) and ROBIN HOOD : MEN IN TIGHTS ( 1993 ; the inevitable Mel Brooks spoof which , amazingly , I've yet to catch up with in its entirety ! ) .
The 39 Steps ( 1935 )	One of Hitchcock's most sheerly enjoyable films and as such is one of my firm favorites of his . Truth be told , I haven't seen it in ages and , although , I've been meaning to reacquaint myself with it via Criterion's SE DVD for some time , I keep postponing such a viewing not least because I have an awful lot of other less familiar Hitchcock films on disc to get through first ? not to mention those by other directors which I haven't seen at all ! The film is full of memorable characters ( particularly Godfrey Tearle's villain and Wylie Watson's Mr . Memory ) and sequences , one of which ( the innocent hero having himself arrested by the police in a public place to get out of the villains ' clutches ) was recycled by Hitch himself in such subsequent movies as SABOTEUR ( with Robert Cummings as the hero ) and , of course , NORTH BY NORTHWEST ( with , who else , Cary Grant ) . Robert Donat and Madeleine Carroll are thoroughly engaging in the leads and their perky banter throughout the film is a joy to watch and quite unique for a thriller of its day . Robert Donat was a great British star of the 30s and 40s but is perhaps chiefly remembered today for having snatched the Best Actor Academy Award from Clark Gable ( playing his greatest ever role of Rhett Butler in 1939's GONE WITH THE WIND no less ) playing a mild-mannered schoolteacher in GOODBYE , MR . CHIPS ; among his impressive credits are THE PRIVATE LIFE OF HENRY VIII ( 1933 ; with an Oscar-winning Charles Laughton and Elsa Lanchester ) , THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO ( 1934 ; directed by Rowland V . Lee and which I've yet to see ) , THE GHOST GOES WEST ( 1935 ; with Lanchester again ) , KNIGHT WITHOUT ARMOUR ( 1937 ; with Marlene Dietrich ) and THE CITADEL ( 1938 ) . Madeleine Carroll , who rejoined Hitchock the following year for the bizarre SECRET AGENT ( 1936 ) , was for a time married to Sterling Hayden and appeared in only a few distinguished films , most notably THE GENERAL DIED AT DAWN ( 1936 ) with Gary Cooper , the splendid David O . Selznick-produced THE PRISONER OF ZENDA ( 1937 ) with Ronald Colman and the delightful Bob Hope vehicle , MY FAVORITE BLONDE ( 1942 ) . Although I own the original John Buchan novel , I've never read it but I understand that it has almost nothing to do with Hitchcock's film . I've seen two other reasonably entertaining but unmemorable cinematic versions of the story ? the 1959 shot-by-shot remake directed by Ralph Thomas with Kenneth More and Taina Elg and the Robert Powell / Karen Dotrice version directed by Don Sharp which , I believe , was reasonably faithful to the original source novel .
THE NARROW MARGIN ( Richard Fleischer , 1952 )	Another milestone in the noir genre and undoubtedly among the best B-movies of all time , this masterpiece remains also director Richard Fleischer's finest work . He excelled in the genre in this early phase of his career and , in fact , I plan to watch three of his other noirs ? BODYGUARD ( 1948 ) , THE CLAY PIGEON ( 1949 ) and FOLLOW ME QUIETLY ( 1949 ) , all of which I own on VHS ? for the first time in the coming days . The film , set for the most part on a speeding train ( but filmed entirely on the RKO backlot ! ) is a lean but mean 71 minutes of gripping drama and non-stop thrills ; it is brimming with hard-boiled dialogue ( my favorite has to be when ungrateful ' gangster's moll ' Marie Windsor , in reply to obsessive L . A . cop Charles McGraw's disgusted remark " You make me sick to my stomach " , nonchalantly quips : " Use your own sink ! " ) , extremely well-defined characters ( especially for such a low-budget film ) and brilliant chiaroscuro lighting , which so defines this most durable of Hollywood genres . Director William Friedkin , who contributes an enthusiastic Audio Commentary to Warner's excellent DVD edition ( interestingly , the theatrical trailer included on the disc contains a few brief snippets of dialogue which are not found in the main feature ! ) , while freely admitting the film's ? and the genre's ? influence on his own work ( particularly THE FRENCH CONNECTION [ 1971 ] ) , waxes lyrical on the qualities of these two actors ( saying that there were none better in the B-movie stakes ) and , watching their brilliant work here , I can't say that I disagree ; actually , among the noir titles I have set up for first-time viewing is another notable McGraw vehicle , THE THREAT ( 1949 ) . Furthermore , the film also features a memorable gallery of villains ( albeit played by unfamiliar character actors ) , an incredible fist-fight sequence which anticipates the one in FROM Russia , WITH LOVE ( 1963 ) and ends with a marvelous , unexpected twist ? which demonstrates the care and talent which went into the making of even a second-feature during the Golden Age of American cinema ! Needless to say , the innocuous 1990 remake of THE NARROW MARGIN ( directed by Peter Hyams and starring Friedkin alumnus Gene Hackman ) was an unnecessary update ? so much so that it's already faded out of everyone's memory ( mine included ) ? which certainly can't be said of the superb original !
The Exorcism Of Emily Rose	A very effective and surprisingly compelling ' horror ' film with a unique ' courtroom-drama ' framework , in which the uniformly excellent performances propel somewhat familiar ( if still frightening ) events . While THE EXORCIST ( 1973 ) remains the ultimate in ' possession ' films , this entry ( little publicized when it emerged ) certainly gives it a run for its money by providing a balancing act of solid scares ( some of which , admittedly , are not very subtle ) and spirituality . Perhaps the most disturbing element of this fact-based story is that , unlike THE EXORCIST , the victim is conscious of the possession and is even allowed to lapse , momentarily , into her normal self - but equally disquieting is the fact that the female attorney defending the Priest ( accused of the possessed girl's death shortly after the exorcism rite failed ! ) is herself ' attacked ' by the Forces of Evil during the course of the trial ! ! Among the most effective scenes in the film are the first manifestation of Evil in the girl's dormitory room ( in which she manages to fight the ' demons ' ) , the girl escaping the benign influence of the Priest by flying through the window in the initial stages of the exorcism , and the intense sequence detailing the failed rite itself ( set inside a barn ! ) .
THE NAKED CITY ( Jules Dassin , 1948 )	I had watched this on Italian TV , but the last time was years ago ; it's a seminal noir , truly one of the finest examples of the genre ( and , arguably , Dassin's best film ) ? made in a semi-documentary style comprising compelling police procedural and remarkable location shooting . It was realistic where most preceding noirs had been expressionist ; this approach actually adds to the excitement ; on the other hand , the constant narration and the treatment of police officers ' domestic lives are the aspects which have perhaps dated the most . The film deservedly won cinematography and editing Oscars , but should have also been a contender in most top categories as well ? such as Picture , Direction , Actor ( Barry Fitzgerald ) and Script . THE NAKED CITY , therefore , was very influential and much imitated ? including one in which Fitzgerald had a similar role , UNION STATION ( 1950 ; which , consequently , I revisited the very next day ) ? and features a justly celebrated climactic chase and a legendary final line that's actually a cheat . The investigation of the central murder case also helped solve another ( the killer's own associate ) as well as a series of robberies involving Howard Duff ( who had been one of the desperate prisoners in director Dassin and producer Mark Hellinger's previous noir , BRUTE FORCE [ 1947 ] ) ? described by Fitzgerald as the worst liar he has come across in his long years of service ! Pint-sized Irish character actor Barry Fitzgerald really nails his part of Detective Muldoon ? bringing a mix of authority , warmth and humor to the otherwise grueling ( and often frustrating ) investigation ; it's also interesting that the case is cracked by the inexperienced assistant ( Don Taylor ) who , on a hunch , decided to follow a trifling lead . The scene involving an eccentric old lady ? who turns up at the police station claiming to be able to help , but whose contribution is totally worthless ? may well have inspired Thelma Ritter's Oscar-nominated role of an elderly ( albeit shrewd ) police informer in Samuel Fuller's gritty noir PICKUP ON SOUTH STREET ( 1953 ) . The film also features several noted character actors in small roles ? I recognized Paul Ford , James Gregory , Arthur O'Connell and David Opatoshu , but the IMDb mentions Kathleen Freeman , Nehemiah Persoff and John Randolph as well ? while Stanley Kubrick is said to have served behind-the-scenes as a stills photographer ! Unfortunately , the audio on the main feature ? of course , I rewatched this via the recently released Criterion " Special Edition " ? was kind of low for my taste ( particularly during the second half ) .
