Rip off	" Dirty Dancing , Havana Nights " is a film that tried to capitalize on a much better film , " Dirty Dancing " that came out in the eighties . This remake suffers from a lack of vision and political incorrectness , so typical with people that have no clue about other cultures , as witnessed by the finished product . It's almost incomprehensible that more than 500 contributors to IMDb have given this film a rating of 10 , or excellent , when it feels fake from the beginning . This film is supposed to take place in Havana during the days before the fall of the Batista regime in 1959 . The director , Guy Ferlnad , and his writers , present us a Havana in which dancing takes place in almost any corner as we are taken to watch an impromptu rumba dancing by happy " natives " in a busy downtown street . The character of Javier , the proud pool waiter working for the wealthy Americans in either their club , or hotel , shows a rebel streak toward his boss , and a friendly attitude toward the gorgeous Katey Miller , who accepts him as a friend . This situation could only work in the minds of the movie people because in real life , Katey couldn't have cared less for the young man , let alone be associated with him for any kind of social dancing . In fact , there is such sharp contrast between the girl of privilege and a working class poor boy that it would have taken a miracle for bringing them together . Talk about the magic of the movies ! This is stretching things a bit too much . Films about Cuba , in general , always show the fateful 1958 New Year's Eve that changed that land forever . We see it again done here as it's the climax of the " dirty dancing " competition where Katey and Javier are finalists . As for the dancing , the people involved in the film have created a hybrid in trying to present what one sees in the movie for " real " dancing , when this type of sensual dancing didn't come into being until the nineties . Diego Luna is a good actor and does what he can with his Javier . Romola Garai is a beautiful young woman to look at , but as far as the dancing , she suffers from a lack of rhythm , so innate in a Cuban , or a Latina and since she is not a dancer , she doesn't keep pace with Javier at all . Sela Ward has some good moments as Katey's mother , and Patrick Swayze shows up as a dancing instructor . Mr . Ferland , the director , should have done some research in Miami , or another area where Cubans still dance in their own fashion and it would have made up for a better dancing in a film that feels fake from beginning to end .
Leaving Las Vegas	It's unimaginable that George Stevens , the distinguished director that gave us " Swing Time " , " Shane " , " Giant " , among others , could have agreed to be associated with this dud ! I vaguely remember the Frank D . Gilroy's play , in which this movie is based , as a not too interesting night in the theater . Well , with the help of the author , the film was made under Mr . Stevens direction , and the results are there for anyone to judge ! The worst thing in the film is the running time ! At 113 minutes , it's way too long . The two principals are so miscast that it pains the viewer to watch them go through the motions feigning to love one another when probably the stars ended up hating each other for the duration of the shoot that took almost three months to be completed . Elizabeth Taylor was into one of her fatty periods while doing this movie . One only sees her in unflattering costumes that don't do anything for her . Those shmattes make her even look older and heavier , but Liz must have thought she was making a fashion statement , or who knows what went through her mind ? Warren Beatty is seen in the film as though he were under the influence . His take on Joe Grady , as directed , seems the kind of man that would be a turn off for Fran . After all , she was having a thing with a rich man who kept her in some kind of luxury . Mr . Beatty doesn't do anything to get us to like him . He is a loser , and that's that . Watch this film on a sleepless night . Maybe it'll provoke you to sleep and have great dreams about what this movie is not !
Off duty !	Unfortunately , this was a film that looked better in the trailers when the film was being promoted , prior to its commercial release . We just caught with it thanks to a borrowed DVD and we are so happy we didn't have to pay to watch this " masterpiece " . The film , directed by Tim Story , is a rip off . It is loosely based on much better French comedies created by Luc Besson . This one here gives credit to Ben Garant as its writer . " Taxi " is an exercise in how not to make movies . The casting of Jimmy Fallon for the main role was a poor judgment by whoever decided to give the comedian this plum job ; he is not even funny ! The opening sequence involving the undercover operation where Washburn fakes to be a Cuban mafioso , shows that Mr . Fallon needs to reconsider future appearances in films . Queen Latifah , a charismatic performer , is handicapped having to act next to an inane actor that ruins some of her best moments in the movie . Ann Margaret must have been feeling desperate when she agreed to appear in this film as the lush mother of Washburn , but on second thought , it makes perfect sense that with a son like him , drinking is the only way this woman can go through life . Watch it at your own risk !
Pieces of April not !	As movies made for television go , this is a prime example of the amount of ' cuteness ' the people involved in this film put into this project . Directed by Steven Robman , and it is based on a screenplay by Matt Goldman . Both creators have worked on television extensively . Their effort , alas , was not worth the time we invested in watching . Don't get me wrong , the film will please members of the audience that will find this story cute . The plot involves what passes for a happy family living in a small town . There are Pa and Ma , who have raised three kids , two men and a woman , at the time we get to meet them . The Gilberts are caricatures of what passes as real people in that far away realm that is television . What's more obnoxious is the callous treatment of a lost granddaughter that suddenly appears at the Gilberts and is promptly dismissed by Lil , who had the child out of wedlock , even though the Gilbert matriarch knew about her existence . Lil , the mother , promptly abandoned her to find her own place in the corporate world . This newly found daughter is dispatched to the nearest motel without any qualms , or recognition by the family . Talk about callousness ! What appears at first as a united family is not what it seemed when one first met them . The Gilberts are highly competitive people . Thus , the annual race for the trophy . They are dressed in the right suburban colors to please the audience that loves to watch these type of movies and who will sit through the film intent in watching a cute movie .
High camp	Sometimes , a movie is so inane that it's fun to watch while under the influence . Then , and only then , the sophomoric jokes and the material that tries so hard to be funny , appear to be a laugh riot . A lot of date films serve as models of this ill conceived film , that we watched courtesy of a cable channel and we didn't have to pay . Director Aaron Seltzer and his collaborators probably thought that they had a sure hit on their hands , but unfortunately , it misfired big time as most of the jokes fall flat . Even the tone of what comes on the screen seems to be a bad copy of the same films it is trying to spoof . The best thing in the movie is Sophie Monk as the girl from hell . With her beautiful figure she is a sight for sore eyes . Her scene at the pool and later washing the car with the extra large hamburgers is about the only thing worth waiting for !
That's ( Not ) Entertainment !	Sam Goldwyn's creative juices must have been frozen when he came with the idea of this film , a bad remake of the more successful " Ziegfeld Follies " . This movie shows how imitation was the worst form of flattery . The ingredients that went into this " stew " , might have appeared to be right at the super market , but what comes out as a result is an indelible mess . George Marshall doesn't show any inspiration in the way the material is presented . The timing is off and the movie feels fake from the start . Giving the film makers the benefit of the doubt , this project appeared to have been doomed from the start . The mere idea of a big Hollywood producer like Oliver Martin relying on the taste of a naive young woman with not an ounce of sophistication , or any idea what the movies were about , is not to be believed . Granted , those were other times , but it asks a lot from the viewer . The other thing that is wrong in the movie is the way the musical numbers are presented . The horrible ballet sequence about Romeo and Juliet with a happy ending and danced by half of the company tap dancing , while the rest are in tutus and toe shoes , is not to be believed , even if the creator was George Ballanchine , himself . The Ritz brothers are obnoxious every time we see them . That song about the pussy cats has to be one of the worst ever . Kenny Baker singing " Love Walked In " while frying hamburgers is laughable , at best . Vera Zorina's Olga is another annoying figure , as is Edgar Bergen , whose only job is to act as a buffer between numbers . Adolph Menjou does what he can in a thankless job . Andrea Leeds appears as Hazel , who Oliver calls Miss Humanity . Not even the wonderful Gershwin songs , or the cinematography of the great Gregg Toland can save this pastiche . As Wayne Malin has commented in this forum , " The Goldwyn Follies " turns out to be a camp fest about two hours too long !
Possibly the worst film of 2002 ! ! ! ! ! !	Matthew Perry should feel lucky he makes millions on his daytime job , " Friends " . He should forget about feature films in the future . Not only is this the most inane comedy in many years , but it just proves that Mr . Perry is someone made for TV and the masses . An actor , he is not . Never mind him . He's a Larry Olivier next to Elizabeth Hurley . She also should stick to her Estee Lauder ads . Hello , Hollywood : you would have done much better with a pair of unknowns and saved tons of money since both the principals suck big time together . This pair has as much chemistry on screen as olive oil and balsamic vinegar . The director ? He should give the studio his fee for this piece of unadulterated crap . I was lucky that I didn't have to pay to see this film , but I pity those who have to shell their money to sit thru ' this piece of garbage . This film belongs in " arty " film festivals everywhere where kitsch is really appreciated .
The boyfriend	This misguided comedy , written and directed by Jesus Delgado , is one of the worst films that have ever been produced in Spain . Obviously , this movie was made thanks to help of money available for young talent that have no way to make their films , otherwise . If there was an argument against these subsidies , this film will be a perfect example . First of all , the plot is so convoluted , it makes no sense . The whole thing is just preposterous because we just can't believe in anything that is going on . Just think about poor Veronica , who being the girlfriend of Alex , a detective , has no qualms in making out with a man that is under suspicion for having robbed a bank , Roberto , who also was involved romantically with the young woman years ago . The film is a mess . The director's idea to fill the gaps in the script is to have all his characters cursing all the time . This is a film to avoid at all costs .
The king of Viagra	Some comments to this forum are from people that relate to the story being connected to Cuba , in some way , or another . Their comments don't take into consideration how badly the material used for the film plays on the screen . The character of Don Arturo , the Spaniard that goes to Havana to get married to the young and luscious Yoli , rings false from the start . It is clear the heavy makeup used on this person shows the man is fake . We realize why right away as we are being put on . Later on , as Papito decides to impersonate the older man : one realizes they are the same person , which goes to ask viewers to stretch their imaginations in accepting this phony premise to begin with . Director / writer Alexis Valdes take on the material makes this a one joke story stretched to the max without any surprises . Not only that , the acting is amateur , at best . This was a film made and financed in Spain , and as Spanish films go , " Un Rey en La Habana " is a poor excuse of a movie .
I won't forgive you , Dawg !	Whatever good intentions were behind this film , they are lost in the finished product . Never having seen it before , we took a chance because of Denis Leary , a talented actor , caught in the middle of this insipid comedy . As directed by Victoria Hochberg , this film doesn't go anywhere . The worst thing going for the film is Elizabeth Hurley . As Anna , we figured out immediately she ties in with the childhood scene at the beginning of the film . The premise to seek redemption from all the women Doug has been mean to , is ridiculous at best . The two stars have no charisma in their scenes together . Laughter is absent from this movie . Denis Leary has done much better and it's hard to imagine what might have attracted to a script that doesn't do anything for Mr . Leary's resume . A film to be watched at the viewer's own peril .
Long live the golden platform shoes !	This film was shown by HBO last night . Not having a clue as to what it was about , and only knowing a couple of the actors in the cast , I decided to take a look . Well , this has to be one of the worst films to come out of Brazil in quite a while . The film , directed by Carlos Lacerda is a misguided attempt to bring together two cultures that on paper should be similar , but in reality they're completely different . The film is phony from beginning to end . Just to think that the Cuban dancers are free to leave their island on a whim , is stretching the truth big time . Not only that , but at one point Dolores , the young woman at the center of the story , picks up her cellular phone and proceeds to dial her ' santera ' godmother , in Rio , and miracle of miracles : she gets through and they speak ! To make matter worse , Mr . Lacerda has given a Spaniard actor , Jorge Sanz , the main role of Jose , who tries to imitate the Cuban accent , without much success . He has also another Spaniard actress , Maria Galina , as Merceditas , whose relationship to Dolores is never explained . Merceditas deals in the black market selling liters of milk , that she gets for nothing , due to her diabetic condition , and then sells them for five dollars , which is pure fantasy . Even the dancing is third rate . In fact , if you want to have a laugh or two rent it , if you want to have a laugh at the preposterous screen play and watch soft core porn as the director wants the viewer to experience various couplings and a possible multiple from the cast . Mr . Lacerda doesn't have a clue about what he is trying to pass as a film .
What was Mamet thinking . .	Frankly , the greatly over-rated David Mamet laid an egg with this film . I mean , did anyone out there care for these people ? Not only that , but the story is so confusing and convoluted that it had a boring effect on me , as well as some of the people at the screening I attended . The plot runs into all kinds of directions without ever making sense . Why does Danny Devito repeats himself constantly in his screen portrayals ? Why does Mamet insists in casting Rebeca Pidgeon in a role that doesn't add anything to the story or the film . Why bother with a female character at all ? Patty Lupone is another wasted female in her 2 scenes . And as long as we're in the subject , why does he cast Ricky Jay in his last films ? He's so untalented actor , as well as he's a great card player ! Better leave him to play poker , not a bad guy ! I wished that Gene Hackman and Delroy Lindo had better parts to play , but it wasn't meant to be . Sorry Mr . Mamet , maybe for your next film choose someone else's material , adapt it as brilliantly as you did with The Winslow Boy and try to work with the great Joe Mantegna , Bill Macy , Alec Baldwin and Alan Arkin again .
They won't always have Paris . . .	Whatever you think of this misguided and silly film , please don't tell Mary Louis Parker , Billy Crudup's girlfriend , he stunk big time in this disaster because she might not like you , and hit you , the same way she hit some fan who was bad-mouthing Billy in his last stage appearance in New York . Whatever was Cate Blanchett thinking when she accepted the title role in this stupid little number ? No one can believe for a moment all the goings and comings the screenwriter has plotted at the expense of truth and reality . I'm afraid that our Cate really has to have her little head examined and maybe one day she'll fess up the real reasons for getting near this project that makes absolute no sense at all , let alone the preposterous situation which situates " la Blanchett " in that God forsaken little town where she sticks out like a sore thumb . Billy Crudup is totally out of place in the company of people like Michael Gambon , or even Cate . His character is totally unbelievable and we cannot think of him as the brains behind all the work against the invading Nazi army . Sorry Ms . Armstrong , better luck next time . We have admired your work before , but films like these are beneath your best abilities . Try to get involved in an Australian theme , one that you're more familiar with , and give us something more dignified than Charlotte Gray , who , by the way , doesn't even have to change her name at all because no one could have cared less if she was Gray , Brown , Green , Black , Blue , Black , or just plain Jane Doe !
Chicago cops	This 1988 movie was shown recently on a cable channel . We wanted to see another film , which supposedly was starting , but because a mix up , Rent-a-Cop , was shown in that time slot . Never having seen it when it was commercially released , we took a chance at it . Bad decision . One wonders what possessed the people behind the picture to go ahead with " Rent-a-Cop " , or how they sold it to the studio behind the distribution . It appears this movie misfired big time . This film doesn't add anything new to its genre . It's totally predictable , as once the basic premise is shown , we know how it will end . Burt Reynolds plays a wooden Church . This actor can do better , but who knows what was going on behind the scenes , or perhaps the direction given to him by Jerry London , had the opposite effect . Mr . Reynolds has one expression throughout the movie . He just doesn't register any emotion at all . Lisa Minnelli , as the hooker who witnessed the original slaughter at the Chicago hotel , makes no sense at all . The romance between her Della and Church seems phony from the beginning . She and Mr . Reynolds play one dimensional characters . Don't waste your time with this turkey .
Gone to the dogs	Bob Rafelson is a puzzling director . After his big successes with " Fiver Easy Pieces " and " The King of Marvin Gardens " , Mr . Rafelson doesn't seem to come out with a film project that will take him back to his past glory . This is evident with the disastrous " Man Trouble " shown on cable recently . The film is a mess . Jack Nicholson , an actor who has worked with the director before with better results , plays the main role of Harry Bliss a trainer of dogs without any redeeming qualities . Harry is married to an Oriental woman and is working his marital problems with a counselor . Harry gets involved with Ellen Barkin , who is being stalked . The solution is to get a German Shephard dog to protect her . She has moved to her sister's swanky home where probably the only funny scene happens . We watch Ms . Barkin working with the dog and all her commands have to be in German , otherwise the dog doesn't respond ! The others in the cast are totally wasted . Beverly D'Angelo has some good moments . Michael McKean , Saul Rubineck , Henry Dean Stanton , are seen in supporting roles . See if there is something else to watch , but don't make the same mistake we made .
Is Beauty skin deep , or is it on the eye of the beholder ?	The latest comedy by the Farrelly brothers seems to hold those 2 principles as the theme of this misguided comedy . Jack Black seems to be playing against type in this movie , since he , himself , is plump and not the matinee idol actor you would expect to be the leading man of this film , let alone be the interest of Gwyneth Paltrow . When he sees Rose Mary through his trance-like state , he doesn't seem to notice his own imperfections . He wants to be accepted by the same people that upon looking at him , feel repulsion . He indeed is a shallow person and a creep to top that . But he doesn't spend a second to examine his own ugliness and his own shortcomings in the persuit of the beautiful and elusive women that don't even give him the time of the day until Rose Mary comes into the picture . When Mauricio , who's played by Jason Alexander , appears at the beginning of the film , he looks like he's a monkey , or that he's wearing an enormous yamulke on top of his head . He looks hideous and he makes a perfect companion to Shallow Hal Larson . Jason Alexander seems to be still playing George Constanza in the Seinfeld series and frankly , he's so one-dimensional that his character seems to be the real shallow one . Perhaps another actor would have been able to make this part more enjoyable , the same way that the role of Hal would have been better cast with another leading man . Actually , if you see the trailer , you see all the best moments of the film . I want my money back . Shame on the Farrelly brothers to give us this piece of pure , unadulterated garbage .
High camp in Virginia	Jonathan Darby is credited with the writing / directing of this misconceived movie . As an auteur , Mr . Darby , doesn't bring anything new to the medium . " Hush " proves to be a total waste as it appears Mr . Darby had nothing in the way to control the over the top campy performance of Jessica Lange . Ms . Lange is at her worst as Martha , the evil mother behind all the scheming in the film . Her love for her son , and hatred for her daughter-in-law , gives the actress an opportunity to do some of the worst emoting in any film in recent memory . Gwyneth Paltrow must be questioned for her choice of material . Didn't she smell the aroma in reading the script ? Oh well , let's hope she was able to ask for millions of dollars for appearing in this turkey . Jonathan Schaech doesn't fare better . Nina Foch is the only one who comes out the best in her small role of Alice , Martha's wise mother-in-law who has seen right through what's going on . This is a film to watch with friends after having a few drinks , then one might enjoy the " masterpiece " some avid fans thought " Hush " was .
Bahama mama	Contrary to the two comments that were previously submitted to this forum , " Flame of the Islands " left a lot to be desired , as a feature film . The story of this woman that wants to get her revenge for what was been done to her years ago doesn't make much sense , as presented in the movie . The rich and powerful Mrs . Hammond , who knew about her husband's escapades , and after he suddenly dies , gives the conniving Rosalind Dee a hundred thousand dollars to get her out of the way . Who , in her right mind , would have parted with that large amount of cash without checking the facts ? It shows she was an idiot without much intelligence ! Then there is the problem of Rosalind arriving in Nassau and becoming the main attraction of the new club . She makes a great impression with the former alcoholic expatriate , the Rev . Kelly Rand , who on the first fishing trip hits upon Rosalind , and in spite his holiness he is just as smitten as the rest of the men who are attracted by the beautiful Rosalind , who now we learn , is really Linda D'Arcy . Talking about stretching credibility , Rosalind / Linda meets the man she was in love years before , young Doug Duryea , who doesn't even recognize her at all ! Well , if one likes these soap-opera-like twists , then " Flame of the Islands " will be the thing to watch . It's fun , it's campy , and it features a larger than life performance by Yvonne DeCarlo , a screen beauty with a figure to match her talents . What is surprising is that the story by Adele Comandini , who wrote the far superior " Christmas in Connecticut " , had no luck by what Bruce Manning , the adapter , did to her story , which probably made more sense in paper than in the finished product .
Unemployed neurotics in Manhattan	Wallace Shawn , the author of " Marie and Bruce " , who wrote the original play in which this film is based on , is a man whose work in the theater leaves a lot to be desired . I don't wish anyone the experience we had with a play he co-wrote with a brother and that was seen at the Mineta Lane Theater in New York about three years ago , in which the audience kept leaving the performance because it was insufferable . This same quality can be said about this adaptation of yet another one of his works for the theater . Directed by Tom Cairns , who also translated the material for the screen , shows us a couple of misfits that have been together far too long and would have been better off dissolving their marriage some time ago . The main attraction for watching the picture was Julianne Moore and Matthew Broderick , both great actors that put in a brave appearance to be in front of the camera playing these people . One wonders why hasn't Marie left Bruce a long time before ? It's easier to see why Bruce has stuck to the situation because he doesn't have much to offer anyone else in her right mind . The film can infuriate would be viewers who would not have enough patience to sit right through it .
Salamanca is beautiful	Is it necessary for this director to load up this film with so much political messages that for audiences outside of Spain are meaningless ? If the Spanish directors could take a chill pill with their " oeuvre " they would be much better off . Take a look at one of some of the best of the current ones : Pedro Almodovar and Alejandro Amenabar , just to mention a couple , they make films that are accessible , light , entertaining , and at the same time are commercially successful . What is the sense to knock the spectator dead with situations only familiar to the Spanish that confuse the viewer . ? If the director would have heard the public's comments after this film was shown at the annual Spanish film festival at the Walter Reade in New York , he would have taken the next Iberia flight to Spain ! Talk about unevolved people : that crowd ! Not only that , no one had a clue what the main conflict in the film was . And these are the so-called intellectual minds that attend basically all the films that are presented . The best part was the way the camera captures the majesty of Salamanca in all its splendor and beauty . The story and the execution of it were as baffling to me as it was for the rest of the audience . It's a waste to have people like Miguel Angel Sola who had a stellar career in his native Argentina , act in this piece , or not even give Margarita Lozano or Antonia San Juan an opportunity to shine .
Calling Dr . Freud	What's wrong with film studios these days ? They come out with something as witty and funny as Analyze This , and sabotage our memory of that original movie with something as obvious and obnoxious as this Analize That . In reading the credits , I almost fainted after seeing that the characters were written by Kenneth Lonergan , one of our best playwrights and by Peter Tolan , a good screen writer . Well , they both missed the target big time . It must be a cause for embarrassment for all the talent involved . With the exception of the opening scenes and up to the point that Paul Vitti comes to the home of Dr . Ben Sobel , it showed great promise . But from there on the whole thing falls so flat that you hardly hear any laughter in the theatre . The subplot of the TV serial , not unlike The Sopranos , is very badly presented and executed . Anthony LaPaglia who is one of the best screen actors around comes out as such an idiot that we kept wondering who advised him in taking this role . For that matter , who sold the idea to the great Robert Deniro , or someone of the stature of Billy Chrystal to repeat their original roles in this loser ? Thank goodness that Lisa Kudrow doesn't have much to do , she can't do much damage here . Cathy Moriarty comes out better as the Mafia Mamma , but she's an actress that can do no wrong . The rest of the cast is forgettable . Sorry Mr . Ramis , better luck next time .
Minimum wagers	If success is measured by the size of an audience , or by the amount of laughs a film produces , then " Clerks II " could be deemed a failure . Judging by the reaction at a screening at the Angelika the other day , where the film is playing in two of the biggest theaters , and the couple of feeble laughs it provoked in an audience of less than thirty people , this movie is definitely not a winner . But never fear , Kevin Smith , a clever man , has made sure the film will resonate with the people that will go see the film based on their experience with the original " Clerks " , a much better , and wittier film than its successor proves to be . In many ways , sequels should be avoided because nothing can compare with the previous work , a lesson Mr . Smith should have applied to this misguided attempt to bring back the people of the first film for a reunion . Jeff Anderson , without a doubt , is what holds the movie together . His Randal is still irreverent and foul mouthed . On the other hand , Brian O'Hallaran doesn't fare better with his Dante . In fact , he seemed to be out of it throughout most of the film . The addition of Rosario Dawson , as the manager of Mooby's was a good idea . The cameo appearance of the incomparable Wanda Sykes , as the offended black customer , proves to be one of the highlights of the movie . What doesn't work out in this sequel is the big musical production number of " ABC " with choreography in the parking lot . Kevin Smith , who plays Silent Bob again , and Jason Mewes , who returns as Jay seem like an old joke gone bad . Time has not been kind to them , in spite of the fact they are still dealing " nickel bags " outside of Mooby's and making a lot of money with the profits from selling drugs . " ClerksII " seems to be targeted for an age group that thinks whatever Kevin Smith gives them is the Bible . One wonders how did the Weinstein brothers , who backed this film and only deal with sure hits , came to the conclusion this was going to make them a fortune and be a big successful picture . Best advice to future movie goers is to wait for the DVD .
Architectural Digest	No mention if Ann Rivers Siddons adapted the material for " The House Next Door " from her 1970s novel of the same title , or someone else did it . This Lifetime-like movie was directed by Canadian director Jeff Woolnough . Having read the book a long time ago , we decided to take a chance when the film showed on a cable version of what was clearly a movie made for television . You know that when the critical moments precede the commercials , which of course , one can't find in this version we watched . The film's star is Lara Flynn Boyle who sports a new look that threw this viewer a curve because of the cosmetic transformation this actress has gone through . From the new eyebrows to other parts of her body , Ms . Boyle is hardly recognizable as Col Kennedy , the character at the center of the mystery . This was not one of the actress better moments in front of the camera . That goes for the rest of the mainly Canadian actors that deserved better . The film has a feeling of a cross between " Desperate Houswives " with " The Stepford Wives " and other better known features , combined with a mild dose of creepiness . The best thing about the movie was the house which serves as the setting .
Role reversal	This film , directed by Eric Styles , has the distinction that it has reversed the emphasis from a woman , to a man , for being the object of sexual desire . Otherwise , it doesn't make much sense . The best redeeming factor is some of the great views of Paris . Sarah , as played by Melanie Griffith , is annoying . That little girl voice in a grown up woman is a turn off . This is a mature woman that has taken up with a much younger , and attractive young man who is seen naked , and or , in different stages of it , in the film . Sarah makes a grave mistake in taking the train back to Paris and holding the precious coin in her hand while she falls asleep ! Hellooo ! She could have hidden in some other part of her body ! Jack , the young man about town , is attracted to the newly arrived American ingenue , Jenny . They immediately fall in love and are seen having sex without any protection . Sorry , but has anyone heard of AIDS ? Jenny is made to look terribly provincial with that horrible permanent and her even uglier pigtails . The film doesn't go anywhere , as we figured what was going to be the outcome early on . The direction doesn't help matters at all . Other than a vacation in Paris , what is Malcom McDowell doing in this movie ? He only appears in one scene and is seen in another ! This film could have been cast with lesser known actors and probably would have been better than what one sees on the screen . Better luck to Mr . Styles next time out .
The Greek enigma	This pseudo noir film takes place in Barcelona . Bernadette and her former boyfriend , Jacques , have come looking for Alekos , the hunky Greek young artist and model , who has married Bernadette , then left her to come to Spain . Bernadette and Jacques have been told to go to Bardon , a private eye , who is good in pursuing missing persons . Brandon , in his quest for finding the missing man , receives a surprise when he becomes a victim of the investigation he is conducting . Bardon , has his own problems . He is divorced , and his life is a mess . His grown up daughter , the sassy Elisa , is a girl that loves to do her own thing . On the other hand , his son , who is an executive involved with the upcoming Olympic games in the city , wants little to do with his old man . The wife , appears at strategic moments to pick on her former husband and ridicule him . Rafael Alcazar tried to adapt Manuel Vazquez Montalban's novel into a film that unfortunately , doesn't make much sense . The basic flaw lies in the screen play the director wrote that sounds false from the start . We are not drawn into the action the way Mr . Alcazar has directed this movie . The acting goes from the bad to the worse . Omero Antonutti , an Italian actor we had admired before has done excellent work for other Spanish directors , mainly Victor Erice , also with the Taviani brothers in his native country . One can only hope he was well paid for his efforts .
Suspicion of foul play	If anyone ever wonder why is the French film industry in the terrible state is is , one could suggest a look at this picture to realize why . The director is Jewish . He obviously has an agenda to throw it in our face at every given moment . He starts in the opening scene when Charlotte and Yvan are having dinner with his sister and brother-in-law and immediately we get to know this poor goy is in deep trouble , and so are we . I mean , who cares what religion any one of these characters practice ? The film loses all sense of direction right away . Only in France can trash like this could be made under the pretense that something artistic is being shown . The story has potential but it goes into a coma and never recuperates . A waste of talent to have Terence Stamp do nothing , as well as Charlotte Gainsbourg . Let's hope no one will finance this genius in his next venture and spare us having to sit through another " masterpiece " like this in the future . My advice to M . Attal would be that he goes to Israel and study film direction under a great director , Dover Kosashvili , who makes Jewish stories so subtly that they are universal .
The big waste	Elmore Leonard should be more careful in selling his books to the movies . This is a perfect example of a miscalculation , knowing that the other attempt in 1969 to make a film out his novel was bad experience . Director George Armitage doesn't bring anything new to the film and the end result is an uneven movie that has a flat feeling . Not even Morgan Freeman , or Gary Sinise , could have saved this film . The problem seems to be with the screen play by Sebastian Gutierrez , or perhaps that in trying to make a film rated PG13 , the creators of " The Big Bounce " reshot a lot of the material and now , at times , it doesn't make sense . The best things going for the movie are the beautiful Hawaii scenery and the beautiful Sara Foster , who is a sight for sore eyes . Otherwise , don't expect to find much .
Uneasy riders	Four men who are experiencing middle age crises , come together to hit the open road in their motorcycles . Little prepare them for what they will have to face in places where butch biker culture is prevalent . These are straight men who act a lot as though they weren't , in many occasions . The one question that comes into one's mind is " What are John Travolta , William H . Macy , and Marisa Tomei , or even Ray Liotta , doing in the film ? " Well , maybe they needed to redo the decor of their stately mansions , or perhaps they needed to see a Beverly Hills orthodontist , or they were just hard up for some easy cash . Otherwise , it's hard to understand what motivated them to be in this silly comedy that will not add anything to their resumes . On the other hand , it's easy to see Tim Allen and Martin Lawrence involved in the project because they are basically television products that only aspire to just a certain degree of what could pass for " acting " . The film reminds us of better made films like " City Sleekers " , just to name one . Directed by Walt Becker with a screenplay by Brad Copeland , it will probably become a favorite of many in the reruns .
Tori the high camp goddess	Thank goodness for a father with lots of money who happens to be an influential producer in the make believe world of entertainment . It works well if one happens to be Tori Spelling , an ambitious young woman , who could be better off spending her idle hours around Rodeo Drive shopping and doing lunch with the rich and famous in all those ritzy places nearby . With this new appearance Ms . Spelling assures herself a niche in the stratosphere of camp . One has to give it to the girl , she gets to wear all those cute outfits while in the throes of love and betrayal . " Mother , May I Sleep in Danger " could be subtitled as " The Tori Show " . Let's hope we are spared of another masterpiece starring Ms . Spelling in the near future , but alas , that's probably impossible , because in her ambition for bigger and better things , she probably will keep turning up in vehicles such as this one forever .
Arsonists	Not having any idea what this film was about , but based on the fact that John Leguizamo was appearing in it , we decided to watch it . Well , it turned out not to be the wisest decision . In fact , as another commentary in this forum puts it , we felt embarrassed for the actors that participated in this movie . While the film is by no means horrible , it doesn't make sense at all . The over the top performance by William Baldwin doesn't help the situation either . John Leguizamo is a multi-talented actor who deserved better . The basic problem it seems to be the film was a project that started with good intentions in making a little comedy and the people in charge ran out of ideas along the way . The result is an uneven film .
Life is a beach	Poor Ginger Gainor , she would love to take her family to a California beach where she vacationed and has the fondest memories of that time . She is an uptight real estate woman who might have the best intentions in wanting to show that part of the country to her family , but little does she realize , no one really wants to go ! Her family , though , really enjoy going to Branson , where they feel ' at home ' and are surrounded from people like them , so why bother ? . Ginger is , what appears to be , a take charge woman , who does everything by the book and even calculates how long they will spend traveling from Omaha to California ! Unfortunately , things don't work the way Ginger wants . Things have a way of happening to her that completely derail her carefully laid plans . Ginger is defeated by everyone and everything , so guess where the family will head , after all ? Yes , you guessed it ! What is Lea Thompson doing in this movie ? She certainly deserved better . The movie will not add anything to her film career . The idea might have looked better in the written script by Linda Voorhees , who also directed , but alas , it doesn't translate to a fun time at all .
Date interrupted by a man with a glass menagerie	Jordan Brady tries hard to make this comedy work . This screen play was written by Jay Locopo , who also appears in it . The film shows a director that wants to please his audience . Mr . Brady has assembled a young group of performers in " The Third Wheel " , which was backed by Ben Affleck and Matt Damon , who also are seen in the movie . The nerdy Stanley finally is able to get Diana to go out with him and this serves to create the kind of curiosity his office friends are betting on . Would he succeed in making Diana see him for what he is really like , or would she be turned off by the way Stanley acts ? The date turns out to be something that Stanley didn't bargain for . As Stanley and Diana are on the way to the theater , they encounter turbulence along the way when a homeless man , Phil walks in front of the car and is hit . Phil will stay with the couple throughout the rest of the movie . At times , this homeless man can be annoying beyond words ! Take the scene when Diana and Stanley finally get to the theater for the second act of the boring play in the park . Who happens to come out on stage ? Well , you guessed it : Phil ! This man delivers a monologue so inane , but everyone in the place goes nuts about him . One wonders about those L . A . audiences . . . Hmm ! Denise Richards gives a low key performance as Diana . Luke Wilson is Stanley . Jay Locopo is seen as Phil . Ben Affleck and Matt Damon also show up in small roles . The best thing is the last minutes when the credits are rolling . Stay for that , or better yet , fast forward to that and then go back to the beginning !
The dark assassin	Anyone that has visited Spain , especially in the large cities , and university towns , has had the opportunity to encounter the famous minstrels that go to touristy places to sing and entertain in exchange for a few coins they will probably use for a meal , or a drink . These young men are a lot of fun to watch interpreting those old songs that have been passed from generation to generation . As the film opens , we meet Arantxa , a student , who is about to start a chat session in her computer . The person on the other side proceeds to show her a video about the dorm where she lives , and the surrounding area . Before we realize , Arantxa is running for her life as she tries to escape the masked Black Minstrel who wants to kill her . The scene changes to Salamanca , a university town where Alex Alonso , a female student has arrived and finds no accommodations . The dorm is co-ed , but the sexes are segregated . Edu , a young student is kind enough to let her stay until everything is straighten out . The next thing we see is Alex chatting on an internet bar , and guess who the other person is ? Well , you guessed , the Black Minstrel . The film , directed by Pedro Barbero and Vicente Martin could have used a good writer to bring this horror story some sense . Spaniards and Europeans of a certain status , abhor anything Hollywood . Yet , this film will make an American made film a masterpiece in comparison . Nothing makes much sense and the fact a serial killer will kill the way the Black Minstrel does , is not dealing with a full deck . Silke , a beautiful actress makes the best she can with her Alex . Maribel Verdu is only seen briefly as the movie starts . Fele Martinez does what he can . Eusebio Poncela , a good actor is seen as Don Justo , the man who might hold the key to the secret around the Black Minstrel . Jorge Sanz is totally wrong as Edu . For fans of horror films , this picture will not show anything they haven't seen better done already .
What was Mary Louise thinking ?	The first thought that came into this viewer's mind was to question Ms . Parker on her choice of vehicles . After having seen her in the New York stage in the brilliant " Dead Man Cell Phone " , one can't only guess it was a project that looked good in the written page and it turned out to be a different thing when it started shooting . Granted , Margaret Atwood's novel is not exactly the easiest thing to adapt for the big screen , or even television , as it's the case with this ill conceived idea . Our only suggestion to this talented actress is to stay in New York where she seems to have a knack for choosing plays in which to shine , as she has proved with " How I Learned to Drive " and " Proof " , just to mention two other plays in which she shone . While this is not a horrible film , by any means , the people behind it seem to have not get the essence of Ms . Atwood's work by the way it's presented . Better luck next time .
Mean Boston streets	" Southie " is worth a look . We have seen this movie before , only that now instead of being about Italian-Americans , it depicts Irish-Americans in Boston . As directed by John Shea , it misses the mark , but it shows a director who shows a lot of promise , as we already know him as an excellent film actor . The film has an improvised look , which might have been the case , but we'll never know . The different Boston heavy accents stand in the way for enjoying it much more , in my humble opinion . Donnie Wahlberg shows his usual intensity . Rose McGowan , as Kathy , shows she has the potential to do bigger and better things . As the Quinn matriarch , it was a pleasure to see Anne Meara , a wonderful actress and a great human being in real life . Let's hope Mr . Shea will come out with a better film the next time out .
Some girls . . .	This is a movie that could have used a picaresque tone to make this otherwise somber film come alive . Its director , Ana Diez , gets good performances in general from her attractive cast , but the screen play makes no sense at all as we watch it unfold . The problem is the character of Jaime . He is the key to the story , but this young man is boring to watch . Fernando Ramallo , who was perfect in " Krampac " is asked to play a young man who is awakening to girls and sex , but there's never any chemistry between this kid he's portraying and the girls who become the object of his attention . From all the girls in his orbit , Eva is the only one that comes across as the one for Jaime . They seem to love one another , but Natalia , who is seeing Alberto , Jaime's brother has something else in mind . The encounter between these two ends up badly as it provokes an unexpected event that will change the lives of everyone in this circle of friends . The other problem with the film is that Fernando Ramallo , even though he was in his early 20s when he made the film , appears to be even younger , maybe 17 . At the end of the picture he is supposed to be an older person , but he still looks 17 ! The actresses in the film are beautiful . Lovely Eva , played by Paz Gomez is stunning and sweet . She's the only one that has loved Jaime . Vanessa Saiz , is Silvia , the girl Jaime liked , originally , but she has nothing in common with him . Finally , Lucia Napal's Natalie , is an enigma until the end . The change she undergoes is not believable at all . She leads the story toward the sad turn of events at end .
Second honeymoon	Mineral water executive Howard Pigeon has married the wrong woman . Elizabeth , his beautiful wife , is irritating , opinionated , and everything he hates a woman to be . Howard wants to get rid of her in the worst possible way . His plan takes him back to the hotel where he and Elizabeth spent their honeymoon in Spain . Walter begins planning how he will kill Elizabeth and dispose of her body to make it the perfect crime , the only thing is , little does he know that Elizabeth has her plans of her own . The night Walter has chosen to commit his crime , Elizabeth disappears . Immediately , he becomes the prime suspect , something he wanted to avoid , at all cost . Director Baz Taylor , who has worked extensively on television , tried his hand at this black comedy , that unfortunately doesn't go anywhere . The viewers are asked to accept Jeff Goldblum's larger than life performance as the husband that has had it . Mr . Goldblum is all over the place trying to give life to Walter . Mimi Rogers , an actress that should be seen more , underplays Elizabeth . Both actors appear to be acting in different films , probably because of the direction Mr . Taylor conceived for the picture . Both Mr . Goldblum and Ms . Rogers are totally wasted . The largely Spanish supporting cast don't have much to do .
Flashbacks	" The Limit " , which is also known as " Gone Dark " , has some interesting casting that made it attractive to watch . Alas , this story about an undercover agent that has develops an appetite for using drugs , doesn't go anywhere . The director , Lewin Webb relies in the use of flashbacks to clarify the plot , but unfortunately , that device doesn't seem to work well . In fact , the film doesn't make much sense in the way that an older lady , May , knowing something fishy is going on with her neighbor Denny , and not acting on her instincts . Or for that matter , the nosy neighbors , who should have been suspicious as to what was going on with Denny in the apartment next door , keep on turning at May's door , but don't go to the police soon enough to have the goings on investigated . When May hears the shot that turns out to have killed Denny , she doesn't even bat a false eyelash , which in a way , doesn't make sense . In fact , May is the victim of the undercover Monica , Denny's girlfriend , who knows the older woman is the key for getting back the incriminating evidence about his demise . " The Limit " asks a lot from the viewer . The premise is not bad , but Mr . Webb , the director and the writer of the screen play , Matt Holland , once they set things in motion , they appear as though they don't know what to do with it . Basically , we watch the film on the strength of the cast . Lauren Bacall , as May , doesn't have much to do . Claire Forlani , who is the key figure has some good moments . Pete Postlethwaite , a magnificent English character actor and Henry Czerny , are equally bogged down by a story that doesn't let them shine , as they usually do .
The Road to Shanghai	The only attraction with this film is Fernando Fernan Gomez . We might like , or might not like the film , but Fernan Gomez is always an interesting face to see in the Spanish Cinema . Fernando Trueba displays a heavy hand in this film that tries to evoke the era in which the action happens . He decided to add a film within the film as is the Chinese black and white story that is told to a convalescing girl with tuberculosis by a shady character that one day appears out of nowhere to stay in her mother's apartment . The black and white film is a distraction that doesn't add anything to the story and leaves things in limbo . Why didn't Trueba concentrate on the main characters ? Why insert the Chinese story that is supposed to be a story that has nothing to do with the other one . ? Mysteries of the Spanish cinema of today ! The Anita of Ariadna Gil is white trash . She's the object of desire among the men of the neighborhood . As the Chinese siren of the second story she's no Anna Sten exactly . Antonio Resines looks out of place as the wrong guy in the wrong place . Rosa Maria Sarda has nothing to do and better yet , a star like Jorge Sanz has only two scenes and frankly it doesn't add to the film at all . Mr . Trueba take us back to a Belle Epoque , please !
Formula one	The allure of the film is basically for fans of the other movies ' love bug ' that came before this one . The movie is an excuse to capitalize on those fans who will not get enough of it in whatever new packaging it is presented . This 2005 film is formulaic from beginning to end . We have an adorable family , the Peytons who love car racing . Maggie , its cutest member is at the center of it for re-working on the beat up VW beetle with a heart of its own . Then , there is the villain , Trip Murphy , who will do anything in his power to avenge his bruised ego caused when Maggie proves to be a better driver . The casting of Lindsay Lohan added to that appeal as she is a young actress who can bring audiences to the theaters . Matt Dillon , a brilliant actor , goes through his material with his usual panache . Michael Keaton and Cheryl Hines are the parents of the Peyton clan . Brickin Meyer is Ray and Justin Long plays Kevin . Angela Robinson directed this new installment which will resonate with fans of this type of films and younger viewers .
Masterpiece ? Not !	Would be filmmakers with an obsession for making their own movies , should check this satire as a guide about what to avoid when going into production . The two desperate men at the center of the story seem to ignore the basic fact : they have no clue about how to make a film . Benito and Carolo , two men who live in their own fantasy world , try to sell their ill conceived idea of a movie to Amanda Castro , a star that has seen better times . She has fallen into despair by drinking a lot . The pair resort to kidnapping Amanda , who they think would work well with the indie they decide to film . Who knows , it might resuscitate her career ! David Trueba's script started probably with a bright idea . Unfortunately , the film becomes a tedious , which at 115 minutes , is much too long for its own good . Bringing Santiago Segura and Pablo Carbonell to give life to his two would be film directors , doesn't add much to the overall fun of this film . Ariadna Gil , who is romantically involved with the director , doesn't add anything to the movie . A masterpiece , this movie is not !
Grab !	The Brothers Farrelly without inspiration are just as mediocre as anything else from the Hollywood boredom factory . This picture compares with Shallow Hall in that if one laughs a couple of times , it's a lot . The kind of comedy they work on , needs a lot of crudity and outrageousness . Well , the viewers that dare to pay to see this inane attempt at comedy won't find it here . The best thing going for this movie is Meryl Streep in her brief appearance . Matt Damon and Gregg Kinnear are just wasted . The idea of this odd couple might have sounded very funny when these two were pitching the film , but on the screen it falls flat . The ones that bought the idea might have had too much Pellegrino with lunch , or was it something in the brownies they had for dessert ? What are they trying to say ? There's no place like home ? Togetherness is the best thing that could happen between siblings ? It's just an idiotic idea , and judging by the audience reaction at the screening I attended , it will be a miracle if it lasts a couple of weeks when better films will be released . I have an answer to the question " What's a four letter word for snatch ? " SUCK ( as it's the case of this film )
Interviews	Maria Lidon is given credit for directing this documentary . It's funny because in the credits someone by the name of Luna appears to be its director , and frankly , we were under the impression that Spanish director , Bigas Luna , a man that loves to shock his audience , was the actual man directing . What makes a woman turn into prostitution ? The obvious answers would be poverty , desperation , sexual abuse , and having been deceived . But the writers of the documentary take the approach to the way some of these women have ended working in the world's oldest profession because the allure of the money that can be made , or just because they honestly like the idea of selling sex for a living . There are only a couple of males that talk frankly about the way they sell their bodies . " The Life " might be deceiving for the casual viewer since in the credits we see some familiar names like Daryl Hannah , Denise Richards and Joaquim de Almeida , but their presence in the film is merely decorative . After seeing and listening to all the women interviewed speak openly about how they view their chosen ' career ' , these actors seem to be in the wrong picture . Other than being curious about what " The Life " is about , nothing new is learned from the people being interviewed .
A change of plan	Something definitely happened to the Farrelly brothers ' remake of the funnier , and wittier 1972 version of the original Elaine May film . They might have thought they had a sure winner with their take , but unfortunately , they had no luck with the way they handled the basic premise of the story . Neil Seimon turned Bruce Jay Friedman's book " A Change of Plan " into an acerbic satire of the times in which the original film appeared . Gone are in the Farrelly's version the humor , the perverse fun , and the irony of the original concept . Part of the blame should go to their choice of leading man . Don't get me wrong , Ben Stiller is a good actor and comedian , but he needs a strong hand behind him . The Farrellys let their star do what appears to be his new repertoire of rants and raves he has developed lately . Compare Mr . Stiller to the stellar performance Charles Grodin brought to the role . Basically , Lenny , in the original film , was a Jewish kid that is dazzled by the Waspish beauty of Kelly Corcoran . She is no match for the Jewish girl he ended up marrying . Lila Kolodny has nothing , in comparison , going for her . In that aspect the old movie makes more sense than in the new one . The Farrellys use of grossness is somewhat tamed in their film . There are only a few occasions in which they stoop low , like toward the end of the picture in the jelly fish sequence . Otherwise , much of their humor doesn't quite make it . We are not opposed to watching sequels , although we prefer to stick to originality any day , but the Farrellys have done better films of this genre . Malin Akerman , who is seen as Lila in the 2007 remake , is a good actress , who could pass for Cameron Diaz's twin . Michelle Monagham has better luck with her take of Miranda . Jerry Stiller , the star's father repeats his real life role in this film with some mild results . Cabo San Lucas looks great !
Take me back to Manhattan a . s . a . p .	I would like to know who's the genius that ' sold ' the idea to make this film . He certainly deserves an award for getting a lot of talented people in this joyless ride into nothing . The great Robert Deniro is obviously not that great sometimes in choosing parts to play . This , being one of them . One wonders what would Martin Scorsese have done with this material : perhaps a better movie than what Michael Caton-Jones have given us here . All these actors are totally wasted because the film , as shown , makes absolutely no sense . Actors of the caliber of Frances McDormand and George Dzundza appear lost in thankless roles . I'd rather stay in Manhattan than go to the city by the sea .
With a mother like Daphne . . . .	Some mothers can be monsters , let's face it ! In the case of Daphne , the manipulative woman who is now divorced with three grown up daughters , she feels that her youngest girl , Milly , needs her help in getting a nice man . Daphne decides to get involved in finding happiness for her daughter . For that purpose , she places an ad in the personals to find a good candidate for this young woman , who by the way , seems to have everything under control . Daphne chooses an architect . Like other misguided mothers trying to fix up her children , success and wealth , play a deciding role in the guy she wants for her daughter . She settles for Jason , an architect . Little does she know that Milly has met a musician and guitar instructor that is exactly what she wants . Daphne and Milly's relationship falls apart when the young woman realizes her mother's work behind the dream date . Michael Lehmann , the director , has done much better before . One can't forget his work in both " Heathers " and " The Truth About Cats and Dogs " , to mention two of his more successful movies . The problem seem to be with the material in which the film is based . This is a rehash of better films that seem to follow a formula . Diane Keaton is an acquired taste . With her mannerisms , her kooky demeanor and her screen presence , she can be fun , or she can be irritating . Her Daphne is not one of her best creations . Mandy Moore , on the other hand , is a fresh talent that certainly deserved better than what she has been given to play . Gabriel Macht is Johnny , the down to earth guy that loves Milly from the start . Tom Everett Scott plays Jason , the architect , with some good moments . Piper Perabo is totally wasted , as is Stephen Collins . Lauren Graham , on the other hand , has a much better role , as the oldest sister .
An obtuse love triangle . . .	The current Spanish Cinema can teach a thing or two to puritanical Hollywood in its treatment of themes the American movie executives would not dare to show a discerning adult public . This film , directed by Gerardo Vera shows us a different love triangle that could very well happen . The director decides to show gratuitous sex that frankly doesn't add a thing to the story , but it is repeated throughout the current crop of new Spanish films . The story is not too far fetched because as love triangles go , the sexes can vary and so they do in this one . Next time there's a film in which Jordi Molla appears , chances are that we might get to see all his endowments , as is the case with his appearance in Son de Mar , directed by Bigas Luna . The same goes for Javier Bardem , who can act pretty convincingly as he does in this film . Poor Ariadna Gil , she goes from movie to movie suffering all the time . She needs to get a supply of Chill pills next time she accepts a film offer , or maybe she can try her hand at comedy . She can even sing , because she's like that song , I Will Survive , since it appears she's unbreakable after all she's been through at the hands of some of the new Spanish 90-day-wonders . . .
First daughter just wants to have fun	One wonders if the makers of this film didn't ever find out another movie about the same subject was also being released at about the same time as this one , " First Daughter " . Obviously , this is a film targeted to young girls who will , without a doubt , love it . Andy Cadiff , its director , doesn't add anything new to the formula these movies follow and the result , while not unpleasant , leaves us with a feeling we have seen it all before . The film becomes a great travelogue where Anna , the daughter of the American president escapes from Prague with a young man she has met and seems to like . They are supposed to go to Berlin , but obviously , they take the train going south and end up in Venice ! Oh well , leave it to the creators of the movie to take the cute Anna all over the continent trying to find herself . Mandy Moore is a young actress that could do better . One hopes she is not typecast into these young girl she seems to play . The others in the movie do an adequate job . The film best asset the great exteriors one sees throughout the length of the movie .
Weight watcher , NOT !	Beeban Kidron , shame on you ! How could they have given you the task of directing this turkey ? , or should we re-phrase it , how could you have assented to direct this porker of a movie ! Remember " Antonia and Jane " ? Where did you go wrong ? Well , right at the beginning of the film , there's a metaphor about things to come . When Bridget Jones parachutes down into the sty full of pigs and gets her derriere smeared in what's at the bottom of it : were the film makers trying to tell us this is indeed a stinker ? The problem with the movie is that for whatever reasons , Renee Zellweger overdid her research for the role of Bridget by eating her way into becoming what the author , Ms . Fielding , didn't probably have in mind . Yes , Bridget Jones is obsessed with her weight , but give me a break , she is by no means a fatso ! She might gain a pound here and there , but she always loses , or at least , she tries to . Not this woman we see on the screen . One can only hope the British cast got paid lots of money for being in the picture . Then again , there are things like this film that are better left alone , as it will add nothing to anyone's C . V . !
Election Day	The only reason for watching this film was the allure of watching Joan Fontaine in her third picture . RKO obviously had no clue what to do with this budding young talent . Pairing her with the dashing Preston Foster didn't get the intended results . In fact , the film , as directed by Christy Cabanne doesn't hold the viewer's attention . The plot doesn't make too much sense , as it appears to have been done as a B movie to fill a double bill , so popular at the time . The best thing in the movie are some of the supporting cast members . Herbert Mundin makes the best impression as the faithful valet . Alan Bruce , William Brisbane , and Paul Guilfoyle are seen in minor roles . As far as Joan Fontaine , one wouldn't have guessed how far she would go judging for her participation in the film . Watch it as a curiosity .
Backroads	Director Garret Williams expands on his short film of 1996 of the same title . Not having seen the first one , we took a chance at the newest version when it showed up on cable recently . Basically , the main interest was the presence of Terrence Howard , one of our most talented young actors working currently in films . " Spark " falls into the category of road movie since its principals , Byron and Nina are traveling by car from Chicago to Los Angeles , where they plan to settle down . A lot of things happen to this pair along the way . Worst of all is the mistake they make in befriending Mooney , who is a loose canon and who plays heavily in the development of the story . Terrence Howard had been acting for a while , so this is not his first job , yet , the actor doesn't seem to have the the same ' spark ' that marks his better appearances in the cinema . He was still a few years away from " Hustle & Flow " , perhaps his best work , so far . His Byron is an enigma the way it comes on the screen , following Mr . Williams ' direction , or maybe the way the character was conceived . Brendan Sexton III does good work as Mooney . A film for fans of this talented actor that will watch Mr . Howard in anything he appears .
Sex , lies and grainy film . . . . . . . .	Sorry Steve , you should have given the idea of your film to someone else and it would have been done better . What is the purpose of making a hip film that no one gets ? Obviously , with your name , you were able to sell this to Harvey Weinstein in the Polo Lounge , or maybe the Tribeca Grand and good old Harvey gave you the go ahead to make this thing . You should have seen how little by little the theatre where I saw it emptied itself to the point there were only about three people left at the end . I'm sorry , but this was such a waste . I wish I had something positive to tell you , but better luck next time . You are a good director and you need to do something better , much worthy of your talents .
I love you madly	This film is an attempt by five different directors to present their take on the theme of " Love and Anger " . Five well regarded film personalities were gathered to offer their views in a disjointed attempt to make sense of theme . Alas , what comes out on the screen is , at best , a boring display by some of these men , who have done much better work , to try to interest us with their mostly leftist views without convincing us . As DB Dumontiel commented in this pages , the more modern the five creators wanted to be , the more dated their contributions become . Of the five segments shown , Carlo Lizzani's " L'indifferenza " is the only one that makes any sense . Filmed totally in New York , without an Italian dialog , it clearly illustrates one of the big problems in our society , and a phenomenon in our bigger cities where people totally ignore situations that claim for human intervention , as in the case of the selfish driver in this piece who tells the cops he doesn't want to get involved , and succeeds in doing so . The Bertolucci vignette is a heavy critique on religion , as he directs the New York based theater group headed by Julian Beck and Judith Malina and members of their eclectic group performing a ritual as a church higher up is dying . The Passolini contribution shows a young actor , Ninetto Davoli , cavorting on Rome's Via Nazionale while over imposed pictures of legendary leftist icons like Che Guevara appear over the action in the film . The Godard piece , is pretentious , at best , and the last piece , by Marco Bellocchio , shows a university class as they discuss nothing . This film might have appeared as revolutionary when it was released , but viewing it today , the only thing it elicits from the viewer is boredom and surprise in realizing that even great directors like the ones participating in this film can lay an egg without really trying .
Sabotage	" The Secret Agent " , a novel by Joseph Conrad , had already been adapted for the screen . Alfred Hitchcock's 1936 film seems a masterpiece in comparison with this attempt by Christopher Hampton of a remake . Although both films are not exactly alike , this new version seems to suffer from a short vision that results in an uneven film . The first problem with this film appears to be the casting of Patricia Arquette in the pivotal role of Winnie . Her accent is wrong and the obvious age difference between her and Verloc doesn't help the film . It's curious to note that Mr . Hampton has done much better work as a screen writer as well as his work for the stage . Nothing of that talent is in clear evidence in the film . The film makers were lucky to get all the talent in the cast . Unfortunately the material doesn't suit Gerard Depardieu , or Robin Willimas , a good actor when he wants to do serious work , but not here . Bob Hoskins , Jim Broadbent , Christian Bale , Eddie Izzard and the great Elizabeth Spriggs , do all they can to make the film better , without much success .
Witness to a murder victimized by the system .	The system of witness protection comes under scrutiny in this film . Shown on HBO recently , this feature has a movie-of-the-week type of quality , in which a real incident is dramatized as a full length picture . As directed by Timothy Bond , the picture doesn't pack much of a punch of the screen treatment by James Kearns . One of the most disturbing aspects of this story is how a courageous woman who goes along with the program by agreeing to testify against the man who she saw killing a D . A investigating a drug lord in Los Angeles , is treated by the same system that wants her to tell what she saw . Carol Peterson is at first , reluctant to cooperate , then when she learns about the characters that will be after her to try to silence her into cooperating with the justice , she realizes she is dealing with professional killers . By putting herself , and her two teen-aged children , in the hands of , what she thinks , is the right agency that will protect her , she really takes a big chance . Not only that , she loses her identity , job , and well being in her community for an uncertain life , at best . It's a sad state of affairs when this family , that has been used to a certain living status , is reduced to practically eke out a life because of the way the financial help is denied to her by the government . Since she can't work , and her kids are reduced to have no friends , Carol Peterson , and her family , pay a high price indeed . On the positive side , she comes forward and points the finger at the man who has followed her and has tried to kill her in order to prevent her from testifying against him .
The Chase	Not having a clue about this film was about , we decided to take a chance . It was produced by legendary Roger Corman , a man who knew how to pack his films with a lot of action . " Moving Violation " is a film that will not disappoint fans of that genre as there is no let up from the start . The young drifter , Eddie , meets a bored Dairy Queen attendant , Cam , and asks her out . She decides to take him to a secret place where they can access the swimming pool in the estate of the rich Mr . Rickfield . They witness as the corrupt sheriff of the town shoots one of his deputies . That triggers a chase across the state as Eddie and Cam are followed through highways and small towns because they know what the sheriff did . They enlist the help of Alex Warren , an attorney that believes them , but ultimately can't do much for them . Charles Dubbin directed with an eye for the action . Stephen McHattie and Kay Lenz play the couple being chased . Lonny Chapman is perfect as the criminal sheriff and Eddie Albert makes a great Alex Warren . The film is non-stop car chasing and will delight the viewer who doesn't expect anything but just pure action .
A stolen life	Having read Ira Levin's novel , and having seen the original film , and now this remake , one can only conclude this was a misguided project that doesn't add anything to the basic premise , or expand on it . Director James Dearden , who adapted the material for the screen , made a tactical error in making the Carlsson sisters as identical twins . Then , whoever cast Sean Young in the pivotal role of Ellen / Dorothy needs to have his head examined . Ms . Young , who showed some promise when she started appearing in movies , is totally unconvincing in this movie . The only reason for watching the film is Matt Dillon , who is always an interesting presence on the screen . His Jonathan Corliss , the disturbed young man who resents what life had in store for him , is made to look bad from the beginning . Since Mr . Dearden starts the film at the most crucial point of the story , doesn't give the audience a cause as to why Jonathan acts the way he does . The other tactical error happens when Jonathan , who is not Jay , arrives with Dorothy by car and eliminates the young man who holds the key to the mystery and is going to show Dorothy the year book in which Corliss appears . We don't believe for a moment he was physically able to do the deed . Ditto what happens with Patricia Farren doesn't make sense at all . Mr . Dearden asks a lot from the viewer and he is not too subtle about the way he presents the material . Max Von Sydow is totally wasted and Diane Ladd has only a couple of scenes . Watch the 1956 original directed by Gerd Oswald !
Igby is no Holden Caulfield !	In coming to this film's front page I noticed that Bill Pullman's name is inadvertently omitted from the credits . Was it because he was ashamed of the finished product , or was it he didn't want anything to do with this dud of a comedy ? First of all , Burr Steers has no clue whether this was a drama or a black comedy . I guess he must have the right connections to attract the talent he works with in this film , otherwise it doesn't make sense . I kept thinking of The Royal Tannenbaums while watching this mess . Kieran Culkin is a young actor that will go far because he's talented . Mr . Culkin carries the film on his shoulders ; he is the whole reason for seeing the movie . The rest of the cast seem to be acting in different films , not in this one . I also wondered about Ryan Phillipe's presence in the movie . Are we to believe he and Igby were brothers ? And did Susan Sarandon give birth to these two losers ? One only hopes Ms Sarandon chooses a better vehicle next time out , otherwise she won't have enough money left for the philanthropic causes she gets involved with . Poor Haitians their stockings will be empty for Christmas .
The old bullfighters	We meet the five old timers at the center of the story as they are to be released from prison for having committed a bank heist years ago . These five have remained best friends even when confined for so many years . In fact , their release comes in unexpectedly ; they have figured they still have another four years to serve ! Life outside prison turns to be now what these men expected . Their love for bullfighting brings them back together . The leader of the group has figured a plan to steal the money from the bullfighting arena in Madrid . Their plan , flawed as it is , is a sure guarantee to get them back to prison , where they really feel at home ! Oscar del Caz's comedy is mildly funny . It could have used a little more humor because at times , it feels flat , something that in another director's hands would have taken another comic turn . Veteran Spanish actors , Manuel Alexandre , Alvaro DeLuna , Jesus Guzman , Conrado San Martin , Tomas Zri , and the rest of the cast do what they can to make the comedy work , but they are bogged down by a screen play that doesn't hold any surprises .
The Royal Mess	I had all the best intentions of enjoying this film , as I have always admired the talent of Wes Anderson . That said , I can only state that as black comedies go , this isn't even beige . Did anyone tell Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson their screenplay was just plain boring ? Mr . Anderson perhaps had something else in mind when he thought about this project . The idea of a dysfunctional family sounds great , but in the treatment of the material on screen , it doesn't materialize . It's about one of the dullest films of the year , in spite of the overblown praise from all critics toward this movie , which does not come up to Mr . Anderson's previous directing efforts . It's a shame because of all the talent amassed in this picture . The best thing in it is Gene Hackman . He is an actor that's always interesting to watch . His Royal Tenenbaum is not a fully formed character , but I would pay to see Mr . Hackman read from the Yellow Pages any time rather than to see him in a misguided attempt at comedy . Gwyneth Paltrow character is bo-ring . And so are the brothers Wilson , and Ben Stiller . Angelica Houston is very dignified in her role , but you don't believe for a nanosecond that after what she went through with Royal , she would walk to the altar ever again . Bill Murray and Jason Schwartzman , who were so incredible in Rushmore don't have anything to do here . The narrative device is sophomoric at best . So the best advice to all the fans is to wait until it comes out in DVD . Who knows , it might even play better . . . .
Elmore Leonard deserves better	When we last saw Chili Palmer , he was on his way to a great movie career . As this film opens , Chili , has a change of heart when he listens to a young , and talented singer , who is performing at the Viper Clup in L . A . He loves her style , so he decides to take the girl under his wing , even though she is still under contract to Nick Carr , a well connected mobster . That's the basic premise of the film , which Peter Steinfeld adapted from the original Elmore Leonard novel of the same title . It doesn't help an uninspired director , F . Gary Gray , is at the helm for this film that is clearly a sequel of " Get Shorty " , a much better film than this mess . Elmore Leonard's novels are filled with interesting characters from the underworld . As seen in better adaptations of his books , some of those guys have been given life by , among others , Samuel L . Jackson , who has made the most out of those foolish mobsters . Even John Travolta , who repeats his role of Chili Palmer is not as effective as in the previous film . In fact , his character doesn't resonate with most of the viewers . Uma Thurman , a beautiful woman , is not at her best either . The most obnoxious characters in the film are played by Vince Vaughn and Andre Benjamin , who clearly appears to take an urgent trip to an acting coach to help him if he wants to stay in movies . Mr . Vaughn is not funny as Raji , who acts " black " without having a clue of how to go about it . Cedric the Entertainer and Harvey Keitel are seen in minor parts . This film should have been titled " Be Heavy "
Neurotic and paranoid hero is discovered by television .	Ricardo Darin , one of the best actors that emerged from Argentina in the last decade , deserved much better than this comedy , that will not add anything to his resume , or career . The basic problem lays on the weak screen play that director Eduardo Milewicz and his co-writer , Carmen Lopez-Areal , concocted as a vehicle for Mr . Darin . We are asked to believe this burned-out television writer , and aspiring novelist , is worthy of a full length feature . As a comedy , the film is not as funny as it might have seemed in the written page . Ricardo Darin tries to give Samy something the poor loser is lacking of , but doesn't succeed . The ebullient Angie Cepeda is seen as Mary , the woman who makes a popular hero out of Samy . The writers asks us to believe that this neurotic man , a product of the local television , doesn't see how he has been manipulated by Mary in believing he became popular on his own merits . While the film is by no means , a failure , the promise of a funny movie is not to be found in it . Better luck next time Mr . Darin .
Reuben's excellent honeymoon	This film had possibilities . A different movie might have been made with another team behind it , but who knows ? The material is very thin and , obviously , it has to resort to grossness as the selling point . This is a desperate attempt at comedy . Anyway , always be suspicious of anything Hollywood dumps in January , usually it's pretty awful . The pairing of Ben Stiller and Jennifer Aniston doesn't come off , as surely the people behind this picture might have thought . They're acting in different movies ! That said , the whole thing is preposterous , to say the least . I once heard of a similar situation , so it's not completely far fetched to find that a bride on her honeymoon who finds someone else that might be better " equipped " than the groom , and decides to try another option . Ben Stiller needs better guidance as he tends to repeat himself . Jennifer Aniston comes out better when playing dramatic roles , as she proved with The Good Girl , last year . She's more effective when playing against type . She'd be excellent in either a dark comedy , or a drama because badly directed in comedies , such as this one , she gives very flat performances . But that is only a humble opinion . The rest of the cast is very good , but they don't get to do much to show their talents . Debra Messing is totally wasted as the bride who decides to go " all the way " in St . Barts . Phillip Seymour Hoffman fares better in his role as Sandy , Reuben's best friend . Hank Azaria surprises as the hunk with an endowment that leaves Liza , the newlywed , gasping for air , and wanting to experience it all . Alec Baldwin has only a couple of scenes , which are brilliant , but only take a few minutes of screen time . He should have been seen more than Hoffman , as this guy is so completely out of reality that his role , as Reuben's boss , should have been expanded . At the end we get to see Ben Stiller " mooning " the audience . It seems to be his liberation from the uptight Reuben having found his true self and letting " all hang out " .
I'll keep the dog	Pairing attractive actors with cute dogs is something Hollywood loves to present , again , and again . This is a film that has that " cute factor " written all over it . Fortunately , we caught it in the form of a borrowed DVD , never having the stomach to spend full price on this formula comedy . Director Gary David Goldberg's take on this situation doesn't bring anything new . The film is harmless enough not to offend anyone , but in retrospect , one has to wonder why was the film made in the first place ? Poor Diane Lane , she keeps showing up in these inane comedies that don't do anything for her . She is a beautiful woman who could do better , but whoever is advising her keeps steering her in the wrong direction , unfortunately . Ditto for John Cusack . One wonders what attracted actors of the stature of Christopher Plummer and Stockard Channing to appear in a movie that will certainly not add anything in their C . V . s . The cute Newfoundland puppies that were used in the movie should have been given more opportunities to show their talents .
A girl in a small town	This is a " movie of the week " variety presentation . Everything turns out great at the end and everyone is happy , so what's wrong with this picture ? Nothing in life is this sweet ! Small town people int this community are so understanding of a situation like what Mary Faith encounters , let alone , accept her and never turn their backs to her . Clara Bryant is good as the young woman who finds herself in the family way and decides to have the child . Robert Forster makes a rare appearance as the father of the pregnant teen ager . Cate Capshaw is also very effective as the woman who befriends Mary Faith . Finally Cybill Shepherd plays the love interest of Robert Foster . No surprises in this one . We've seen it all before !
The " un-official " story	Fito Paez , an Argentine composer , decided to try his hand at directing in this film , that alas , won't add anything to his resume , or to the rest of the fine actors and technicians involved in the project . The problem lies in the clunky screen play written by Mr . Paez and his collaborator , Alan Pauls . The story is a retooling of the more successful Argentine film " The Official Story " , directed by Luis Puenzo . The story will be a puzzle for people that have no idea about that dark period in the story of Argentina where the military higher ups gathered all those that were opposed to the regime , and either killed them , or like in the case of Carmen Urenga , made go into exile . Even the return of Carmen is painful . She has been transformed by the trauma she experienced during the painful years she spent in prison . Carmen is a wounded soul who can't even respond sexually to anyone . Instead , she becomes a voyeur . When the young Gustavo appears in her life , things begin to change for Carmen , who slowly becomes intrigued by the attention the young man pays to her . It is at this time that the horrible secret Carmen has been carrying for more than twenty years come back to haunt her . The acting is passable . Ms . Roth deserved better . Gael Garcia Bernal is out of his element , in our humble opinion . Chinchuna Villafane , who appeared in " The Official Story " is seen as Carmen's mother . Luis Zembrowsky and Dolores Fonzi have some good moments . Hector Alterio , one of the best Argentine actors has nothing to do . " Private Lives " is a dark film that will be better understood if the viewer has a little knowledge about Argentina's " dirty war " .
Three sisters in Madrid	Nena , Ludmila , and Rosa , three young women arrive in Madrid from Cuba . They have been sponsored by an aunt who had settled in Spain some years ago , and who now , believes she is more Spaniard than Cuban . At the same time , another couple with a young girl are met at the airport by Igor , a Cuban friend who is now living in Madrid . The three sisters quickly learn that their new home is not exactly what they had in mind when they thought about abandoning their country . They arrive to a society they are not prepared for ; they are at a disadvantage because the regime in which they have lived most of their lives hasn't prepared them for anything of practical use in their new country . The aunt proves to be a woman who sees in their nieces a nuisance to her ordered life and she feels they are invading her territory . Maria , the aunt , wanted Nena to take an interest in Javier , a gay Spaniard , who obviously couldn't care less for her , but is willing to enter in an arranged marriage to help him disguise what he really is , sexually . Igor , on the other hand , is a small con artist . Igor also is a man who could be bisexual , as proved by the fact of his encounter with the man who falsifies documents and is asked to cut his toe nails . . . The newly arrived Cubans feel they don't want to stay in Spain , since their goal is to settle in Miami . Igor falls for Nena , the prettiest of the sisters . At the same time , he is double timing her with Azucena , Maria's best friend and neighbor . Nena who wants to be an actress gets reunited with a fellow Cuban playwright who is staging a show they had done in Cuba , but now , for the Madrid presentation has been transformed into a work that doesn't reflect the original play . Manuel Gutierrez Aragon , the Spanish director , co-wrote the film with Senel Paz , a Cuban writer . The film is laden with clichs that renders it completely false . Nothing makes sense , and we don't believe for one moment what is happening . Everything is phony . It's hard to imagine , a gay man , like Javier will suddenly find happiness in marrying Ludmila , who seeks him out and suddenly performs the magic of turning him into a straight man . Hellooo ! ! Jorge Perugorria , an actor who could use speech therapy to cure his heavy Havana-accent , is an enigma in the picture . This actor , like Daisy Granados , who plays the aunt Maria , have been lucky in that they have been cast in most of the films made for the Cuban cinema . This actor must be well liked as his other career outside Cuba seems to indicate . Violeta Rodriguez , who plays Nena , is a beautiful woman . Her Nena is a bit also far fetched , but one is willing to compromise . Best of the lot is Isabel Santos , who gives Rosa dignity . Pepon Nieto's Javier doesn't add anything to the film . For fans of Cuban films , remember , this is a Spaniard director's interpretation of a reality that he never knew !
Imperfect genes	" Godsend " directed by Nick Hamm seemed promising , so we decided to take a gamble . Not having seen anything by Mr . Hamm before , and based on the people involved in the film , had a certain allure . The film's screen play is by Mark Bomback . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . This is a horror film that dabs in the occult and relies on science that has not been perfected in any shape , or form . This film points to what makes grieving parents do in order not to let go of a child that has died tragically . Otherwise , this highly intelligent couple deserved what they got for even attempting to tempt fate in bringing back the son they had lost . It's obvious the convincing Dr . Richard Wells gets his message to this couple , against the best judgment of Paul Duncan , the school teacher who should have known better . What is confusing , at best , is the fact that when the original Adam died , he was celebrating his eighth birthday , and when we see the new Adam , he is about to blow the eight candles of the chocolate cake ! In a way , the whole reasoning for going along with Dr . Wells ' experiment is not well explained because what the doctor tells the Duncans doesn't make much sense . This is when the fun begins . The Duncans get to live in a fabulous house that is too perfect for what they are going to begin experiencing . Some of the horror works , and some is too obvious , but we go along . What doesn't prepare the viewer for the unfortunate conclusion is that it appears Mr . Hamm and Mr . Bomback had alternative endings , that are shown in the DVD version , which I didn't see , and the movie doesn't feel right with what one sees . Greg Kinnear and Rebecca Romijn-Stamos play the Duncans , making them an attractive couple for the viewer to watch . Robert DeNiro , an actor that has done much better work before , is totally wasted as Dr . Wells . The young Cameron Bright goes through the motions with what appears to be a straight face . This film will be fun when watched with friends that are fans of the genre to see their reactions . Otherwise , watch at your own risk .
Why bother ?	" The Women " one of the best classic films of 1939 , a glorious year for the American cinema . Based on the witty Clare Booth Luce theatrical play , is one of those works that are better left alone since the definite version by the great George Cukor , with a screenplay by Anita Loos , will never be better , as seems to be the case with this misguided effort . Diane English , the creator of " Murphy Brown " , serves as the director for this updated take on Ms . Luce's work . One can understand her admiration for trying to bring up to date this timeless play . Unfortunately , what was relevant in 1939 feels boring and somewhat inadequate today . Then again , Ms . English cast , with a few exceptions , pales in comparison with the players of the original movie . One can see why this feminist play , way ahead of its times keeps attracting new audiences . One feels sad for the waste of talent in the film . Meg Ryan , who was so amazing when we last saw her at Katz's delicatessen , is not in the same league as Norma Shearer . For that matter the Crystal of Eva Mendez equals Joan Crawford's performance . While Ms . Crawford was the epitome of the calculating beast she was , Ms . Mendez seems vulgar and cheap . We feel as though Annette Benning , especially , and Candice Bergen have been totally misused in the overall picture . Watch the original George Cukor film .
Con game	Imagine the dreary life of Martin , a bus driver in Madrid . His job has gotten the best of him , as well as his bored colleagues , but only Martin wants to do something to remedy the situation . When one night he climbs atop a viaduct over a busy intersection , a passerby , Salva , convinces him not to jump . After all , what would he accomplish ? Instead , Salva has a different plan for Martin . Why not ' borrow ' money from the local mafia . He can have millions with just the promise that he will repay at a high rate . For that , he must go into a clinic , where an old lady , lying on what appears to be her death bed , will decide whether to approve the loan , or not . At the end of the term , the mafia will " take care of him " when he can't come up with the money he owes . The new riches brings Martin to a life of luxury . He doesn't care how he spends his money . When he decides to throw a party , he goes all out . A young waitress , Lola , who is let go because of her inefficiency , catches Martin's eye . They begin a whirlwind tour of the fine places in Europe , and Madrid . Lola , it seems , has her own agenda about what to do with Martin's money . " Living it Up " , this Spanish comedy , has a glossy surface given by its director , Antonio Caudri . What doesn't make much sense is the screen play by Carlos Asorey and Fernando Leon Aranoa , a director , himself . We don't buy for a moment that even the criminal element would consider Martin worthy of a loan they are not to get repaid . Of course , we realize that Salva , is the key figure in the larger scheme of things , and we go along for the fun . The explanation as to why Martin was selected , makes no sense at all ! And Lola's role in the whole thing is false from beginning to end . The film tried to capitalize having attracted Salma Hayek for the role of Lola . We don't recall this film being released commercially in this country , maybe in some markets , but no big distribution . Ms . Hayek's charm doesn't work miracles for her character , but she is a pleasant presence in the film . Carmelo Gomez , one of Spain's leading actors , has good moments . Best of all is Fernando Valverde who is seen as Salva . The film is mildly amusing , but it doesn't make much sense .
Helping the author write a masterpiece	" Where Sleeping Dogs Lie " would have been a much better film had the director and writer tightened the screen play in which it's based . Charles Finch , the director , and Yolanda Turner , the writer , tried to put some life into the film with mixed results . The story of Bruce , a writer that is house sitting a mansion that has seen better days , offers a lot of possibilities . Bruce made the discovery about a murder that has taken place in the house . To make matters worse , he agrees into taking a lodger , the creepy Eddie Hale . The viewer realizes right away where the story is going . The result is an uneven movie that has some good elements and with another creative team it might have been more interesting . Dylan McDermott is Bruce , the writer . Tom Sizemore has more opportunity playing the strange Eddie Hale , who is the key to the mystery surrounding the mansion and what happened in it years ago . Sharon Stone is seen as a literary agent that wants to dare Bruce into producing a masterpiece . " Where Sleeping Dogs Lie " is a curiosity piece that is mildly engrossing .
The girls ' orphanage	This film , based on a novella by Frank Wedekind , which we read a long time ago , suffers the too - many - cooks - spoil - the - broth syndrome . Being a co-production of England , Italy and the Czech Republic doesn't help the strange mishmash this film turned out to be . To add insult to injury , the finished product suffers from a case of an atrocious dubbing , which can be quite maddening on the viewer who is paying close attention to the expressions of the actors against what is being said by them at any given moment . Since the dialog is in Italian , and many in the cast don't speak the language , the result is disorienting , to say the least . The story of a girls ' orphanage makes an intriguing premise . The institution serves as the home for those who have been unfortunate enough to land in it . The girls are being groomed in ballet dancing , mainly . There is a certain degree of mystery about the provenance of these beautiful young women which is not quite easy to grasp until one adventurous girl , Vera , who has been slighted by the ballet mistresses into a secondary spot in the corps , that she decides to engage Irene and Hidalla , to help her . This proves to be a fatal mistake , as things begin to unravel around them . Jacqueline Bisset appears as the headmistress with a secret of her own . Mary Nighy and Hannah Taylor-Gordon are seen as Hidalla and Irene ; they share also a passion that will get them in trouble . Nataalia Tena plays Vera , the girl who discovers where the records of the girls are being kept and pays a high prize for it . Enrico Loverso , an excellent Italian actor , has nothing to do in the film . The best thing in the movie is the cinematography of Fabio Zamarion , who takes advantage of the great old structure where the action takes place , as well as the bucolic surrounding area photographed somewhere in the Czech Republic . Director John Irvin , who evidently was involved for a long time in the project , emphasizes the homoerotic aspects of the story as well as more gory details .
Cellular	Danielle Thompson's film about two unlikely lovers is a bit of a puzzle . She has thrown together two of France's best known actors in a film that doesn't have a lot to say . Perhaps she is making a statement about France's frequent strikes that seem to bring would-be-lovers together ; perhaps she is telling us that strikes are sexy because there are endless possibilities of naughty things between virtual strangers . Juliette Binoche is practically unrecognizable as Rose , the beautician trying to escape a bad relationship . When she flushes the cellular down the toilet , her luck suddenly changes by asking Felix to use his own phone to finish her call . They keep meeting each other at the crowded terminal where stranded passengers have to wait until the strike is settled , perhaps . Jean Reno , is also playing against type ; his usual intensity is gone from the man he is portraying in the movie . Rose with the excessive makeup looks like a lady that entertains private male customers , cash only , please ! The film is light , but ultimately we know what is going to happen , so we're a step ahead of Mlle Thompson ! The only regret is that Sergi Lopez , the magnificent Spanish actor , is completely wasted as the man Binoche is running away from . Besides , better movies have been made about the subject . This is a film to watch in the middle of a transit strike , only ! Who knows , if one is caught up in a French transit strike , one can be lucky and be rewarded with such a delicious prize as Mlle Binoche !
Martha gets humbled	The public's appetite for sensationalism is probably at the core of this TV made film that was probably rushed to capitalize on actual facts while they were still clear in people's minds . Frankly , we wouldn't even have considered watching this type of documentary , had it not been we were in a foreign country and the film was shown in English . Martha Stewart is a woman who has a larger than life personality , equally loved , as well as despised by friends and foes . Obviously , Ms . Stewart who went from being a regular person with a lot of excellent ideas about how to cater for the tastes of the moneyed classes , is a self-made woman who has to be given credit for the empire she created . It is obvious she had to fight for everything she accomplished . She shows a trait that is common to people who haven't have money all their lives : she is a bully to employees , as well as a demanding person who has to have her way , at all costs . The documentary is a rehash of all the scenes the media gave us while it was going on . Cybil Shepherd , who plays Martha , bears an uncanny resemblance to the diva she is playing in the movie . Eric Bross ' direction doesn't bring anything new to the story . Perhaps what the film is telling us is that no matter how above the law certain individuals who think they are above the law will have their own day in court to account to the abuses they engaged in and yes , they are accountable for all those unlawful things they thought they were getting away with .
Sex according to Julio Medem	Has anyone picked up the trend of Spanish film directors ? When they don't have anything better to say , or to present anything worthwhile , they resort to showing sex , preferably , female genitalia , or even male apparatuses , to distract the naive viewer into believing they are watching something artistic . Well , not so . Ethel , a friend who lives in Madrid , and avoids the Spanish cinema like the plague , told me in two words what she believed this film to be about : CHEAP PORNO ! Never were there more clever words spoken ! Julio Medem , might be an intellectual in Spain , but he certainly cannot cut the mustard , as demonstrated by his previous output : Los amantes del circulo polar and Vacas . . . . Only in Spain , or in Europe , for that matter would anyone invest money into these disasters that pass as " art " films there as well as here . In the first place , the sex in the film is completely gratuitous and in your face . Paz Vega is an attractive woman , who no doubt will do better than in this movie . Frankly , I have no objection to have Paz Vega showing her charms all the time but the same should be expected of Tristan Ulloa ! So , if the director wants to reveal to us all what Ms . Vega has to offer , how about getting equal time and give everyone a view of what Mr . Ulloa has in store ? If we are going to be fair , then , let it all hang out ! The new Spanish Cinema isn't afraid to bare all to the world , but they don't have a clue what they're showing . Let's hope Mr . Medem talents will help him land a job as the director of the local Playboy , where he could really show it all without subjecting us to trash like this . The afternoon session I attended had a Viagra crowd . At the end , I overheard one man tell another : " Great Film , I've seen it about 10 times already ! . . . "
Man - Darin	As someone commented , Kevin Spacey is getting more and more like another Kevin , Costner . This talented actor seems to be his own worst enemy . Some of the material he chooses , is clearly below his talents , but yet , he keeps coming back , again and again , in duds like this one . Directing the material that he and Lewis Colick wrote , the star / director doesn't bring anything new to the film . Mr . Spacey would have been better off letting someone else direct the film , so he could concentrate on Bobby Darin . " Beyond the Sea " feels , at time , like a soap opera where horrible revelations come out , as a matter of course . Such is the revelation that his sister was not his sister , at all ! There is no great chemistry between Mr . Spacey's Darin and the great love of his life , Sandra Dee . As played by Kate Bosworth , this Sandra was a royal mess . After a while not even the music saves this ill conceived film . The inter play between and his alter ego , is distracting , at best . It doesn't enhance the film , at all . Perhaps Mr . Spacey would take a moment and analyze his origins on the stage and maybe consider going back to the theater and let a brilliant director guide him into the thing he did best , but got derailed by ego and Hollywood .
Ya-dda Ya-dda Ya-dda !	Ms . Callie Khouri is a fine writer . I met her once . She's a fine lady , but she's a better writer and she deserves something other than this film to start her directing career . The books in which this film is based are better than what Mark Andrus has adapted for the screen . At least in them , there is a certain charm of the time it evokes . Also , it was fun time in the bayous of that Louisiana of the past . This film is a jumble of styles . At the beginning it appears as though we're in WWII , which would make the Sandra Bullock character about 65 or so . That would make the four original friends about 90 ? At least , that was my perception in looking at the costumes of the period since nothing is made clear . As far as how the book translates on screen it is silly . What was the conflict between the parents ? It is very stupid , to put it mildly , but then again , all those southern belles , as we have seen them in films , are rather vapid and flighty . The circle of friends : Ellen Burstyn , Maggie Smith , Fionulla Flannagan and Shirley Knight are fine , as is Ashley Judd as the young Viv , who obviously loved her Bourbon , or whatever she drank . James Garner doesn't have anything to do . Sorry Ms . Khouri , better luck next time , or try directing your own material .
Bed and breakfast	Marie Belloc's novel , serves once again as the basis of this 2009 treatment that doesn't go anywhere . Partly , the fault lies with the treatment of its well intentioned writer / director , David Ondaatje . His inexperience , perhaps , was the factor that this movie probably went into DVD right away , as it appears the commercial run didn't go anywhere since it must have come and gone without much publicity , or word of mouth . The locale of the story has been changed from London to a rainy Los Angeles , seen mostly at night . The serial killer who is killing prostitutes in a seedy part of town is following in the steps of Jack the Ripper , the famed English killer . This sick man finds digs in what appears to be an uninhabited garage in the back of a house that has seen better days . The mysterious lodger catches the landlady's fancy ; this woman is stuck in a bad marriage . She looks as though she is not dealing with reality , but the attraction the new renter has upon her proves to be too much . When the dead women begin to surface , detective Chandler Manning has to face guilty feelings because the present killer has the same M . O . as the man he has sent to the electric chair a short time before . Manning has a suspicion the murders follow the same logic as the ones committed almost a century ago in London . His obsession gets the best of him , making him lose perspective . The picture fails because the way Mr . Ondaatje presents the story . There is no suspense in most of the action . If the viewer happens to be a fan of the genre , he would notice things that will spoil the fun for him . The director doesn't create enough atmosphere to do justice to what he tried to do . The talented cast is totally wasted . Alfred Molina and Hope Davis are excellent actors , but the way they were asked to portray their characters is not believable . For one , the detective of Mr . Molina , or the vapid landlady of Ms . Davis , will not add anything to their brilliant careers .
Hostage situation	The main reason for watching this thriller on the Fox cable channel was the cast . Not having a clue as to whether this movie was ever distributed in this country , but the allure of actors like Sean Connery and Ian McShane in its cast , proved to be the deciding factor for watching this 1975 British production directed by Finnish director Caspar Wrede . The film had the title " The Terrorists " , in the version we watched . After a series of bombs are detonated in London , we are taken to Oslo , where a group of terrorists have kidnapped the British ambassador to that country . The masked individuals demands are passed to the local security forces . Nils Tahlvik , the negotiator wants to put his own plan of action in place . There is a conflict with a British agent who wants to give in to the kidnappers ' demands , something that Tahlvik doesn't want to do . In the meantime , a commercial airliner , about to land at Oslo's old Fornebu airport is taken over by a group of hijackers . The captain takes a chance by making the tires of the plane blow up as they land . All attempts to surprise the kidnappers on board fail . As preparations begin to bring the ambassador and the men holding him to the aircraft , that by now has been fixed for an unknown flight , the police tries , unsuccessfully to send security forces masquerading as the criminals , but everything fails until the end when Tahlvik himself boards the aircraft and a surprise , that has been kept from us , is revealed . The screen play by Paul Wheeler is confusing , at best . We don't have a clear picture of what is really going on , that is complicated by the ending in which that surprise comes out of nowhere regarding one of the hijackers and the duplicity of someone in the negotiating team . Sean Connery is not at his best in the film . We get to see Mr . Connery as he looked at that time before any cosmetic enhancements , especially his teeth , which went through quite a change after this film was done . Ian McShane makes an interesting appearance as the evil Ray Petrie , who is in charge of the hijacking team on board the plane . Isabel Dean , has a good moment as the British ambassador's wife pleading with Tahlvik . While the film is by no means horrible , it could have been probably better with another film treatment and a action director . The best thing in the movie is Sven Nykvist cinematography , which unfortunately doesn't quite show in its splendor because of the faded quality of the copy that was shown .
A head injury !	The perverts have invaded the neighborhood and we're not going to take it anymore ! Gays and lesbians are everywhere as well as all kinds of disgusting lewd behavior . Well , what are the righteous citizens to do ? Organize and try to get rid of them , but they're outnumbered ! Thus seems to be the premise for this hysterical John Waters picture . The promise for an irreverent take on pornography in suburbia dissolves as soon as it starts . Mr . Waters shows a milder side to himself , as it's been the case in his latest movies . But with that said , even a minor Waters is a hilarious one . Sure , the jokes get a bit stale , but the film has so many funny situations that anyone with an open mind will appreciate this kind of humor . Tracey Ullman blends the perfect amount of seriousness and insanity playing her Sylvia Stickles , the woman who comes alive as she is hit in the head ! Her scene at the nursing home playing the Hokey Pokey will become a classic Waters moment . Chris Isaak , Selma Blair , Suzanne Shepherd and Johnny Knoxville are also good .
A man's love	The directors of this film wanted to present a funny take on a serious subject . Yolanda Garcia Serrano and Juan Luis Iborra , who also wrote the screen play , show us a side of the gay life in Spain , which depicts their life as a mature way for them to interact in their world and lead social lives that appear to be rewarding . Into the equation , the directors have thrown a woman , Esperanza , who is a typical " fag hag " . Her friendship with Ramon , the man at the center of the story , is an uncommon one . Ramon basically depends on " Espe " as a means of support and friendship . In fact , their friendship seems to be deeper than what it appears on the surface , and Esperanza is a true friend that will be there for Ramon all the time , something that he takes for granted , as proved when he gets involved with Roberto . The film has a few laughs because of the humor the creators have given the production . Loles Leon makes a fun Esperanza . Andrea Occhipinti is the hunky Ramon . Armando del Rio appears as Roberto , who undergoes a change from not being interested in Ramon , and suddenly throwing himself into his arms , but he has an agenda that will be revealed at the end .
Lie , lie , lie , and lie some more !	Imagine the poor nerd-like Roger , who is humiliated on a daily basis by his co-workers . He is such a pathetic individual that even the Big Brother group he mentors want to get rid of him . What to do ? How about enrolling in a school that will give him the skills that will help him overcome his own shortcomings . For that , he goes to Dr . P's school where supposedly he will learn , among other things , how to overcome his inability to deal with the tormentors he faces everywhere and then get to have great sex that has been denied to him . The premise of this comedy must have sounded great to the people behind the project . Todd Phillips , after all , is a major talent that has done much better . Writing the screenplay together with Scot Armstrong , and loosely based on the original English film of the same title , one would have expected a laughter riot . After all , the casting seemed made in heaven . The pairing of Billy Bob Thornton and Jon Heder , should have yielded an edgier comedy , but alas , it was not meant to be . One cannot blame the actors involved because the material given for them to act , doesn't hold many surprises . There are isolated parts that are funny and work . Most of the time the gags feel flat . Even though the end product is not what one expected , " School of Scoundrels " has its moments and it could be a film to watch with friends if the group is into a party mood .
Le shopping	Frankly , the trailers for this film looked a lot more promising than what the finished product turned out to be . We are presented with what appears to be the way bored people with money do with their meaningless lives . Now , we are not opposed that Odile , a woman in a marriage that has seen better days , spends her time in the pricey Parisian boutiques frequented by women like her . After all , if she gets her kicks out of doing that , let her have her fun . In the meantime , her husband Jean-Pierre is at his wits ends trying to win the affection of her wife . Instead of dealing directly with the problem , he follows his chauffeur Richard's advice seizing Odile's credit cards . If he thinks he will get away with that , he's got another thing coming to him . Richard , the driver , it turns out , has the same problems his boss has , without the money element . Alexandra Leclere , the writer / director of this French farce , touches on themes that are deeper than what one sees on the screen . Consumerism , machismo , and non-communication between couples that have been married for a while , are some of the themes behind this comedy . The exceptional cast gathered for the picture deserved better material than what they were given . The marvelous Natalie Baye does all she can with Odile . Christian Claver , who plays Jean-Pierre , makes a good impression . Gerard Lanvin's Richard is instrumental in giving his boss the solution for all his problems . Geraldine Pailhas appears as the wife of Richard , a lady with her own problems in a marriage that is also having difficulties . There are a few laughs , but in the end the film doesn't completely satisfy . One wishes Ms . Leclere better luck next time .
Expensive tastes	" Hors de prix " a mildly funny French comedy , co-written and directed by Pierre Salvatori tries too hard to be cute . We were ' bombarded ' with the trailers for this film way before it opened commercially in New York . Alas , the best scenes were seen in the trailer and they have a deja vu feeling as one watches the film on the big screen . The French have the knack for coming out with naughty ideas for their sex comedies . There is no doubt in our minds this film will have a Hollywood after life as a repackaged vehicle for whoever is hot at the time it will go into production . " Hors de prix " seems to be a long commercial for the type of clothing , jewelry and cars that were strategically placed within the picture to entice the viewer , or perhaps make us envious for all the excesses one sees displayed . The best thing the film has is the pairing of Gad Elmaleh , one of the comic actors being showcased at the moment , and Audrey Tautou , a fine presence in this , or any other one where she is asked to appear . The mistaken identity joke , the basis of the plot , has been done with better results in better films . " Hors de prix " is not a horrible movie by any means , it just doesn't have any surprises , leaving the viewer a bit weary when all is said and done .
Ebb tide	It is surprising to learn that John O'Hara wrote the screen play for this movie . At least , the way we see it today , it appears sadly dated and devoid of interest . In fact , one has to question what kind of reception this movie had at the time it was released . Evidently this movie was made on a low budget . It has a feel of a B type picture from the beginning . The set , which passes as San Pablo looks clearly a studio pool . Director Archie Mayo doesn't add anything to make this an interesting story . We know how it will end before hand . Jean Gabin , the great French film star tried his luck in Hollywood . His career in France was much better than what we see in this vehicle . He has great moments in the movie , but everything is against him , and the film , as we watch it today , appears passe and without any interest for the viewer . At best , it's a curiosity piece and a rarity because M . Gabin's short stay in America . He deserved better ! Ida Lupino is Anna , the girl that wants to drown herself and is rescued by Bobo . She shows in the film she could hold her own against a more experienced and worldly Gabin . Claude Rains , as Nutsy , is hard to recognize in the opening scenes . One wonders why did he take this role since it didn't add anything to his otherwise brilliant career . He must have made this movie right after Casablanca , in which he shines . Thomas Mitchell also appears as Tiny , the heavy man intent in blackmailing Bobo and trying to seduce Anna .
Phoenix 1 Aliens 0	One wishes Signs to have lived to the potential it shows in the first part , where we are engrossed in what's going on , scared at times and amused by this mysterious film . M . Night Shyamalan has been very successful in his previous features . This , unfortunately , falls flat just when a very strong ending is needed . Like many other fans , I felt manipulated and let down by this movie . It's very easy to see what's going on in the Mel Gibson's character . His loss of faith , his grief for a lost wife , his fears of confronting reality and moving on with his life . Those things are deeper than what we are let to know , because on the surface it is one thing , but deep down it has nothing to do with the obvious ' signs ' of the title . The fact that he's a religious figure is even more confusing . Obviously , he must be a protestant minister , what with the family and all , but there are moments that are puzzling because of this ambiguity . Had this script been brought to the screen with a lesser known director , it probably would have had a more satisfactory resolution , because the ending , with Joaquin at the bat , is very hard to swallow . Let's hope Mr . Night Shyamalan finds his way for the next time out .
Snapshots of Laura	" No Small Affair " was a movie made at the height of the Brat Pack popularity . John Cryer and Demi Moore , two of the most prominent members of the group are showcased in this whimsical comedy about obsession . Jerry Schatzberg directed the film , which has a San Francisco setting . The movie is in a way , the coming of age of Charles Cummings , a young amateur photographer who one day discovers a beautiful young woman while taking pictures at one of the piers . He will do anything in order to meet Laura , who at the beginning doesn't feel anything for him , but who is intrigued by his obsession , especially when he spends all his savings to have her face , and telephone number , plastered all over the tops of taxis . He was only trying to get Laura exposed to possible offers for a recording career , but the plan backfires and all she gets are sexual propositions . John Cryer as Charles Cummings is charming . Demi Moore does good work as Laura . George Wendt , Peter Frechette , Ann Wedgeworth , Jeffrey Tambor , Jeniffer Tilly and Tim Robbings are seen in supporting roles . The film is an entertaining way to spend a couple of hours .
Bob le Flambeur this is not !	I have seen every film directed by Neil Jordan . Being a big fan of his , I didn't want to miss this one . Well , it was the big disappointment of my life . This remake of Bob le Flambeur is horribly directed and acted . The last sequence is just about the best thing of this film , but as for the rest , it was just mediocre , at best . The idea of putting together these many characters in the Riviera was probably a great thought , but then , the many actors of different nationalities and backgrounds prove to be a hindrance to the story . If one can get over the accent problem , then there is the sound track of this film , which was so hard to hear at all , at least in the theater where I saw it , that you have a double hurdle to get over . Nick Nolte with his hair dyed a carrot hue looks hideous ; he probably was going through a bad period when he made this movie . His take on Bob is fitting with the character's spiral descent into hell because of his drug problem , no doubt . But he is also hard to understand since he whispers and mumbles most of the time . A little more clarity would have helped . The last moments of the film are very well executed , but as caper films go , this picture doesn't contribute anything to the genre . Sorry Mr . Jordan , better luck next time out . Maybe leave remakes to mediocre directors . You could not improve in the original one , so why even bother ?
Bonding	It's hard to understand , sometimes , what can go wrong in the relationship between a father and son , when no physical abuse is involved . We know these situations do exist , as it the case presented by this movie that tries hard to presents a situation about the distancing between a son and his father , two people that are much alike . Billy Crystal , working on the screen play with Eric Roth , try to make us like this story . As directed by Henry Winkler , this dramatic comedy doesn't add anything that one hasn't already seen already . In fact , most of it kept reminding us the work of Neil Simon with all its one liners and glibness . " Memories of Me " makes a point to salute those unknown people working behind the stars because Abe , the father of this story is a struggling extra in Hollywood . The movie capitalizes on the star turn by Alan King , who plays the father . Billy Crystal underplays the son . Jobeth Williams also appears . Mr . Winkler has gone for the sentimentality and the result is a film that doesn't go anywhere .
The language of flowers , or life on the road .	Like a lot of contemporary French cinema , this film doesn't lack ideas , however , the execution and finished product sometimes make no sense , or illuminate the story . It's not for a lack of styles that Olivier Dahan can be blamed on what we are seeing . He has a lot of different methods about how he wants to present them , but it only adds to the confusion , as things happen unexpectedly . He never bothers to explain why they got that way . First of all , it is very strange that Sylvia's teen age daughter , Laurence , suddenly pops up in her mother's life . Sylvia could not care less about the girl . The accidental killing of one of Sylvia's pimps , make mother and daughter flee the scene of the crime and take to the back roads of Southern France . This is a case where crime , even if involuntary , does pay . The end of the story feels false , as we watch the three principals going into the sunset . Could this trio have found the secret for happiness ? Stay tuned , or better yet , smell the flowers ! The acting is fine . Isabelle Huppert shows her usual intensity and is convincing as the prostitute . Maud Forget , as the teen age daughter does her part well and Pascal Greggory , as the man that enters into both mother and daughter's lives is effective as the man who seems to bring peace between both .
Fame at Camp Ovation	Todd Graff takes us to a summer camp designed for aspiring young people trying to break into the musical theater business . This is a film that will draw comparisons with the better made " Fame " , which , at least , had an original musical score . This one relies on the teen agers performing Broadway songs , mostly by Stephen Sondheim , who is seen briefly at the end of the film complimenting the music teacher in charge about what he as accomplished . The film presents us a devious character , Vlad , who is a young man probably seeking his own sexual identity . As played by Daniel Letterle , he shows he is a man aiming to please everyone . The openly gay Robin , played by Michael Flores , makes the best of his role with what he has been given to play . The rest of the cast tries hard to put on a good show under Mr . Graff's direction . The movie shows how Camp Ovation embraces all kinds of aspiring entertainers with the kind of tolerance one never sees in other more strict institutions .
The skeleton	A fun comedy with no pretensions . It starts with what appears is going to be some kind of horror movie , but don't be afraid , it has nothing to do with that genre . When a human skeleton is discovered , it ties to a crime for which an innocent man is going to pay by going to the electric chair . His lawyer takes a last minute approach in helping his client when the governor of the state refuses to give the condemned man a reprieve since all the evidence is against him . The discovery of the mysterious trunk reveals the real clue to the murder and with it , the ghost of the dead man comes back to life . This 1942 comedy was directed by Malcolm St Clair . It has an interesting cast . Best of all is Raymond Walburn who plays the dead man and his ghost , with such deadpan that is disarming . Also in the cast J . Carroll Naish .
For whom the bells toll ?	Jacobo returns to the city of Santiago de Compostela , in Galicia , Northern Spain , after an absence of some years . His father , a sculptor had been killed by his schizophrenic mother , Carmen , who is now in an institution . Soon Jacobo begins feeling the presence of his dead father in the form of a ghost that seems to haunt him . The young man rekindles the friendship with the beautiful Maria , who he now sees as a different person and he begins to see her under a new light . The problem is that Jacobo can't get away from the horrors he feels by the spirit of his dead father and the horrible conditions under which his mother is living at the present . The basic problem with this film is the screen play and the way its director Xavier Villaverde deals with the story . The film , at first , seems like a horror story , but is it really ? It appears to be a nightmare living in Jacobo's mind that he can't liberate himself . The city of Santiago takes center stage as it's added to the story like another character . Moments of great intensity alternate with others in which the action disappears , thus creating an uneven film . Juan Diego Botto does an excellent job as Jacobo , the torn young man who is at odds with his past and his present . Luis Tosar plays the dead father with great style . Elvira Minguez is seen as the sick mother , Carmen . Marta Etura appears as Maria , the woman who loves Jacobo .
Million Dollar Baby , Not !	" Against the Ropes " is not the bad movie some of the contributors to this forum seem to imply . While it doesn't break any ground in a sport that is seen here in a more glamorized way , the film presents us a woman determined to succeed at being a boxing promoter . In real life , Jackie Kallen has proved herself to be capable of handling fighters . Charles S . Dutton , an actor himself , makes the best of the material Cheryl Edwards wrote , based on the real Jackie . Jackie Kallen is a woman who knows a lot about boxing . When she spots the amazing Luther Shaw , she is determined to take him to the top . She realizes she has a thankless job , as she enters an area in sports totally dominated by men . Jackie is not a quitter , as she proves it to the boxing world and to herself . While boxing drama has been dealt with in much better movies , we won't dwelt on it . Jackie Kallen , is played by Meg Ryan . She is at times annoying in her determination to go against the controlling mafia-like people in the business . Omar Epps , as the boxer , appears to do a fair job as a fighter that wants to go to the top of the heap . Tony Shalhoub plays LaRocca , the man who would like to defeat Jackie and show her where she belongs , but she gets the last laugh ! Charles S . Dutton , as Felix , the trainer , doesn't have much to do . Timothy Daly , is Gavin , the man responsible for attracting attention to Luther because of his friendship with Jackie . Watch this movie with open eyes .
The talent agency	" Man About Town " , written and directed , as well as acted , by Mike Binder , shows how low some of the people that rule the film industry have stooped so low in order to establish themselves in the fantasy planet of Hollywood and the competitive world they seem to inhabit . Some famous names come to mind of people that got their start this way . It is curious how our society does not bat an eyelash to denounce their deception , their greed and the ambition that seem to be their only excuse to justify their existence . At the center of the story , one meets Jack Giamoro . He lives the kind of life that not many of us mortals get to know . He is married to a gorgeous woman , a product of that rarefied world , that has cheated on him with one of his clients . Jack , upon learning about the deceit in his own life , goes berserk . He hires the relative of a man in his office to take all her possessions out his house and his life . We get a chance to see what Jack's life was like growing up . In flashbacks one can watch how his own brother took the girl he liked away from him . His father , who is senile , lives with him , to make matters worse . Luckily , Jack has no children , which makes his separation from the wife more bearable . Jack has a problem in opening himself to others as shown in the writing classes he decides to take , but he wants to use to his own advantage ; he doesn't want to share personal aspects of his writing with the professor , or his fellow students . The surprising turn of events that befall Jack make him more human , in ways one never suspected . In a way , the film is a cop out because Jack doesn't show any kind of human kindness from the way he rose to the top , or in the way he wants to leave the same privilege life he got to enjoy when he stole business secrets from his employer and enabled him to have an upper hand on the others . The problem with the film is we never really cared about these people and their insignificant troubles . Mike Binder , who created this film knows first hand how that segment of the film population acts and gives the viewer a bird's eye view of the shallowness of it all .
Italian Salsa	Coming out in this type of conservative family is probably very hard to do , so when Angelo tells his parents he is gay , they take it badly , as one could probably have thought . This is not a dysfunctional home , in the traditional sense , but like most families facing this situation , they can't believe they have produced a son that is " uomosessuale " . This light comedy is a funny approach to what happens when the unexpected occurs . The interplay between the two different cultures in the Italian-Canadian community setting could not be more true about the movie tries to deal with . The most important point the film makes is that Angelo , by coming out , is a much better person than Nino , who will probably go through life living a double life and being miserable in both worlds . This comedy is good for carefree laughs . Director Emile Gaudreault keeps things moving quickly . The cast is very good .
Shoot to kill	Marcos , a young reporter , goes to the circus to write about that world in his paper's Sunday supplement . He is not interested in anything , but as he is leaving , the next act is about to start . It involves a woman riding a horse and performing tricks ; the presentation ends in shooting balloons from the horse while it is moving . Marcos feels attracted to the beautiful woman . Marcos is intrigued by the circus performer and returns to interview her , but she begins playing with him , inventing stories . As he is about to leave , Ana , comes to him and tells her who she really is . An affair between them ensues . Fate intervenes when three young mechanics come to repair circus equipment and the owner gives them complimentary tickets for the show . The trio make a racket as they watch Ana perform . After the show , these three force themselves upon Ana . She is badly hurt and decides to take matters into her own hands . Since she is a skilled shooter , these young punks don't have a chance when she comes for them . Ana , who is bleeding badly ends up in a country home where a couple and two small children live . Marcos is responsible for breaking the impasse between Ana and the police , but he arrived too late to help her . Carlos Saura , a noted director , made some valid contributions to the Spanish cinema . His earlier pictures had a political and satirical context that he abandoned later on after Franco's death in favor of films that emphasized the dance . This film will not add anything to his career , or that of Antonio Banderas , who as Marcos , gives a tepid performance . On the other hand , Francesca Neri , a gifted Italian actress is the best thing in the film . Her Ana has equal parts of mystery , charm , love and hate , as her determined character decides to deal with her tormentors . The film is titled " Outrage " in English .
Run , don't walk !	It's impossible to think what was in Cary Grant's head when he accepted to appear in this silly movie . Even when it came out in 1966 it seemed like a bad idea . After all , this is Cary Grant's last film and instead of leaving with a bang , he disappears with a whimper . It doesn't help that the film , as directed by Stanley Donen , was a weak exercise in its attempt at comedy . True , Mr . Grant is always a luxury for any director to have , but when he is not shown at his best , nothing happens . The best moments of the film show Cary Grant whistling the theme songs from An Affair to Remember and Charade . Well , this is as close to greatness as we are going to get by watching this soulless comedy . Samantha Eggar , Jim Hutton and John Standing do their best to appear interesting , but everything fails . Let's remember Cary Grant for the rest of his work and run , don't walk whenever this film shows on cable !
The butterfly tattoo	Director Fernando Colomo , working with Joaquin Oristrell and Anna Klamberg , created a movie that tries to tackle a serious theme , the passion between an aunt and her nephew , into a screwball comedy that doesn't go anywhere . Never having seen it before , since we don't think it was ever released in this country , we decided to take a look that frankly , didn't pay off . The film is clich laden and doesn't show an ounce of originality . When young Luis decides to go to London to finish his studies , his mother , Noelia , asked her sister Olivia , who is living there , to find him a place to stay . When Noelia and Luis arrive , the mother is horrified by where her son will have to stay , but since she receives an urgent phone call to return home because her husband has been involved in a financial scandal , she leaves . It doesn't take long for Luis to get attracted to his aunt . Olivia , who has been living with Duncan , an aspiring actor , finds out he is cheating on her . Her sadness makes her turn to her nephew , who has been secretly lusting after her . The result shocks Noelia when she learns about it . Don't expect anything new or original from this comedy . Maria Barranco plays Olivia . Coque Malla is Luis , the nephew . Rosa Maria Sarda has the best opportunity as Noelia . Peter Sullivan and James Fleet complete the cast . One gets a fleeting glance of Penelope Cruz at a party , but she has no speaking part .
Guadacanal	Nicholas Ray , an excellent director , did some of this best work in the 50s . " Flying Leathernecks " , his 1951 war movie came out six years after the end of WWII . The film looks at the men who were involved in the Pacific theater , and more specifically , on Guadacanal , where the Japanese held most of the territory and had caused a lot of damage to the US forces that were trying to chase them out of the island . The film juxtaposes two men , Major Dan Kirby and Col . Carl Griffin . Where Griffin is seen as one of the guys , Kirby , who is perceived as a distant disciplinarian ; both men come to battle their own war . This aspect didn't play too often in movies of this genre , as everyone was presented as men who followed their leaders without any doubts . The film relies on a lot of the combats against the Japanese in the air , where the Americans seemed to be matched by their counterparts . The air fighting could have used a more realistic approach , or at least another man's vision other than Mr . Ray's , who doesn't give it the realism to pull the viewer into the action . John Wayne makes a good appearance as Dan Kirby , the hard man who wanted his men to do better . The wonderful Robert Ryan plays Col Griffin , a man that has the admiration and respect of the pilots under his command and who sees himself being passed for the promotion he deserved . The film shows glimpses of Nicholas Ray's genius , but ultimately the film doesn't live up to its promise .
Butterflies are free	It's clear to see why films like " The Butterfly Effect " are quickly embraced by young people because the more visual and complicated a movie gets , the more it resonates with a certain age group who will see what the rest of the audience don't . Created by Eric Bress and Mackye Gruber , " The Butterfly Effect " is a movie that presents a young man , Evan , who has been warped for life , or so it seems , by the pedophile next door , who happened to be the father of his best friend , Kayleigh , also has been abused by her father . The third person whose life changes forever is Tom , who has witnessed his father in action taking kiddie porn movies of his sister and her best friend . As the result of what these children experienced , their lives take a twist that no one could have predicted . Evan suffers from trance-like moments when he can put himself back to a horrible event in his young live . Following all those stories take a little endurance on the viewer's part as some of what we see is too far fetched to be true . The young cast of " The Butterfly Effect " go through the motions with great relish , especially Ashton Kutcher , who as Evan has the better part . Lovely Amy Smart , who has done better work on other films , appears as the adult Kayleigh . William Lee Scott , Eric Stoltz , are seen among the large supporting cast .
Life with father	Having only seen the sitcom that was made for television , we decided to take a look at the 1963 original film directed by none other than Vincente Minnelli , a man that almost always delivered . It's sad to see that neither Mr . Minnelli , nor the screen adapter , John Gay , had any clear ideas about what to make of the material . The movie could have done much more , but ends up as a typical comedy of that period . Tom Corbett , a widower with a young son , Eddie , is at the center of the story . Being still relatively young , Tom is the object of desire by women that are looking for a husband . The problem is that it's obvious the girl next door , Elizabeth , is really the one for him from the moment we set our eyes on her . Eddie , who is going through some bereavement pains , has a problem , accepting his mother's death . Tom and Elizabeth irritate one another when they are together . This is part of what will become a match made in heaven , or so we think , but no , Tom decides to pursue someone else , Rita , who is into fashion , and clearly the wrong woman to bring home to Eddie . That becomes quite clear when Rita suggests to send Eddie to be with relatives for a while when they get married . This suggestion is what triggers Tom to realize how wonderful Elizabeth is after all . Glenn Ford was good as Tom . Mr . Ford always gave an honest performance , as he does here . The lovely Shirley Jones is perfect as Elizabeth . It is however Dina Merrill who makes is a joy to watch her as Rita . Ms . Merrill is an actress that deserved much better parts . She was radiantly beautiful and projects such an elegant figure in the movie . Ron Howard , was at a cute stage of his career . Roberta Sherwood is fun as the housekeeper . This is a film to watch as a curiosity . Vincente Minnelli's direction doesn't go anywhere .
Brief encounter during the Paris transit strike .	Claire Denis sure knows the French woman's mentality . She is very sly in presenting us this story , that on the surface tells us one thing , but deep down , it has nothing to do what we are actually watching . The transit strike plot , with Laure sitting in traffic and going nowhere , is played too long . We all get the idea of the boredom and frustration of the driver caught in similar circumstances . That part of the film can drive the viewer nuts , since nothing happens . Laure doesn't feel any remorse into picking up Jean , who is obviously stranded , or is he ? . Their conversation doesn't reveal anything , yet , one can feel where this is leading to : somewhere where Laure and Jean can copulate to their hearts content . The clue of what's to come takes place after they have an espresso at the cafe . Jean asks for change to go downstairs to the vending machine for a 4 condom pack . Oh la la . . . Jean is not a casual sex offender , he must protect himself , as well as the woman he takes to bed . Casual meetings such as these can be very dangerous ! The scenes in the hotel are well staged . In fact , there is nothing shocking , or done in bad taste . When Laure and Jean are making out , their behavior is very chaste , without French kisses , ( I wonder if Pres . Bush would call them Liberty kisses ? . . . ) is a let down . But Jean and Laure do it very stylishly and with decorum . Jean , obviously , is not a one-woman man . After all he has more condoms in his pocket and when he is in the pizzeria , he spots another woman who makes it known she wants to play with him downstairs . At the end of the film we watch Laure leave the hotel room running into the deserted streets with a grin on her face . She'll go now to her own lover as though nothing had ever happened that night . She is a woman empowered by her own will to have fun , yet not take it too seriously , or hurt anyone . Perhaps she's laughing at her own sense of adventure having done something that perhaps no one will ever know . Both of the principals are very effective . Veronique Lemercier and Vincent Lindon play very well together . The director is perhaps telling us that there is still hope for all of us , non movie star types , to have fun and meet a partner for the night , have great sex on the next transit strike , if we are in Paris .
Unlikely neighbors	" Unhook the stars " marked the directorial film debut of Nick Casavettes , the son of the immensely talented John Casavettes and Gena Rowlands . This is clearly the director's homage to his beautiful mother , which probably was the reason this film was made . The screen play by the director and Helen Caldwell , doesn't translate to a good film , as we watch the finished product . Mr . Casavettes ' heart is in the right place , but the movie , as written , doesn't make much sense . First of all , one wonders where Mildred went wrong . Her daughter Annie is a mess . Her son , the yuppie , lives in his own material world . We would like to think Mildred and her late husband created a nice environment for these two children . They both turned out to be losers in their own right . Mildred's neighbors don't belong in her neighborhood . One wonders how the probably low wage earner , Monica , can live across the street from Mildred's better than average home . A lady like Mildred would probably have told Monica off from the beginning . The way Monica curses in every sentence would have been a turn off factor for Mildred . Of course , we know she goes along because suddenly she has found the sweet little J . J . that Monica dumps on her . Monica and Mildred live in two different worlds and it's hard for us to accept their situation because Monica shows no redeeming qualities , except the love for her son . Mildred , on the other hand , doesn't have a clue about how to reach out for her daughter . The only positive thing Mildred does is to sell the house and go into a new life . Miami in her future ? The other thing that doesn't make sense is to watch the elegant Mildred going to the dive where Monica takes her to drink . Big Tommy's interest in her , while it might be sexual , is not fully realized either because they stick out like oil and vinegar . There is no chemistry between Mildred and this big French Canadian guy . Gena Rowlands does an excellent job as Mildred . She is always serene and composed . That's why Marisa Tomei over acting , the way she does , looks completely out of place , next to Mildred . Jake Lloyd is sweet and not bratty as J . J . , the boy who loves Mildred until his father comes back home . Moira Kelly's Annie is an enigma . David Sherrill and Bridgette Wilson play Mildred's son and daughter-in-law . Poor Gerard Depardieu , a great star in his native France , doesn't have a thing to show for himself . M . Depardieu should choose more carefully his future films in America ! With the exception of " She's so Lovely " , which reminded us more of his father's influence , and " John Q " , Nick Casavettes hasn't made a name for himself as of yet . It would be a great help for Mr . Casavettes to study his father's films , then , perhaps , he would find an inspiration for directing more movies that will showcase his talent . This one , or " The Notebook " , alas , don't help him at all .
Conspiracy of the dunces	Rick Cowan's " Shadow of Fear " showed up on cable recently . The only thing that attracted us to watch it was the presence of James Spader , Peter Coyote and Aidan Quinn , perhaps the best known actors in the cast . This film written by Matthew Hollaway and Arthur Marcum , will test even the most patient viewer's patience ! First of all , the screen play is vague in explaining what we are watching . The opening sequence shows us Harrison sitting near the table where his father-in-law and his cronies , presided by the creepy William Ashbury are discussing things that probably Harrison can hear , yet , he is not invited to participate in the discussion . He is given a drink , but when he goes to pay , the waiter shows him that it's already been paid by Ashbury . He then goes home on a rain storm . The moment he gets distracted , he hits the man standing in the middle of the road . What to do ? Call the police ? No , instead Harrison disposes the body not too far from the road , a move that will carry terrible consequences for this young man . This being said , sounds like the premise of a good mystery film , but instead , the writers have complicated the story in such a way , that at times , one wonders with incredulity all the twists and turns in a plot that doesn't ultimately prove anything at all . By not making clear the activities of the group , we start losing interest in the film , and nothing that is done later on to explain why everything happened makes sense . James Spader doesn't add anything to his otherwise excellent career in the movies . Ditto for Peter Coyote , Aidan Quinn , and the rest of the cast . Matthew Davis who is at the center of the story appears to be miscast for the role of Harrison . Perhaps with a stronger lead could have made more sense .
The laughing windows	Having admired Pupi Avati's films , and having no clue about what this film was about , it was interesting to find this movie in DVD format . We don't recall if this film , a giallo , as far as genres go , ever was released commercially in this country , although , we can't recall that it was ever shown here . This horror picture was a collaboration between Pupi Avati and his brother Antonio . Watching the film recently , it has a faded look , even in the well restored transfer to DVD . The prologue , as the titles begin to offer a vision of a mad man as we hear his voice mumbling about his colors as someone is stabbed in front of our eyes , which should have played without the titles over what we are watching . We realize it's the voice of the painter whose fresco Stefano has been commissioned to restore . The opening titles are a distraction and one wonders if the Avatis did it on purpose , or was just an oversight . The film has some interesting ideas and it's creepy enough to send chills up one's spine . We realize from the start that the mad painter and his sisters were more demented and connected than really meets the eye . Stefano , the young fresco restorer that arrives in that rural community , should have insisted in staying in the hotel , where he is forced from , without explanation . Staying in the creepy haunted house where the old woman is bound to her bed , should have been avoided at all costs , but without that , there wouldn't have been a film ! " The House of the Laughing Windows " must have looked better when it was originally released . The plot , as a whole is uneven ; we sense what will follow , but we are not prepared for the conclusion at the church where Stefano realizes he is completely helpless and has been trapped by the same forces he was trying to fight . Pupi Avati has grown artistically since he directed this film , which should be seen as part as his growing and maturing as a director but only offers some minor surprises .
Is it really Willis ' Willis ?	The director's cut , no pun intended , seems to be a much better film than the one that was shown commercially , but it still is a far cry from a satisfactory movie to watch . Richard Rush could have done better , but the psychological film we see , adds nothing to what has already been shown before . From the beginning we realize who the killer is , as well as the person with the multiple personality problem . It's too obvious ! The film relies heavily on the sexual attraction between Bill Capa and Rose . Much has been speculated in this forum about whether we are actually seeing Willis ' willis , or not . Since most male stars wouldn't be caught dead showing their genitals , for obvious reasons , what is seen for a second in the pool scene is that of a body double . On the other hand , we see Jane March showing it all , which is a welcome attraction . Only the final sequence has any impact . There are many things in the plot that don't add up and the viewer is ahead of the story at all times . Bruce Willis with a hairpiece looks good . Jane March has a better chance with the character she plays . Also Brad Dourif , Lance Henriksen have their moments . The one that doesn't come across well is Ruben Blades , an otherwise excellent actor trying to do a Columbo routine in this film .
The magazine photographer	Samuel , an aspiring young photographer , is seen in the bus that is taking him south to Madrid , where he is trying to relocate in order to be with his girlfriend , and get a job at a magazine . A car overtakes the bus and makes it stop . Out of the car jumps a woman of a certain age who makes the driver open the door and goes over to the photographer to reprimand him because he has left without saying good bye to her . When he arrives in Madrid , all he sees is a note at Eva's apartment welcoming home and she'll be back . Eva , it turns out , is a viola player with an orchestra . Eva , who doesn't appear too welcoming , has a surprise for Samuel , she is pregnant ! She tells him they must respect each other's spaces if they want their relationship to flourish . After an interview with the head of the magazine , Sameul is hired on a temporary basis . Little does he know what he is getting in . He is going to work with all the editors in the different departments . This group includes a cynic woman who is in charge of the crime news . There is also a young playboy types who does sports . Also there's a revolutionary man who is more of an anarchist and a blind man who does the film reviews . Is David Trueba , the director , trying to tell us that media criticism to his movies is as blind as this man who reports about ten film openings in any given week and don't think much about what he has to report ? " Welcome Home " is a film written and directed by Mr . Trueba . In trying to create different quirky characters that inter act with young Samuel , the director presents us with stereotypes that don't ring true . The film is mildly funny and capitalizes on Samuel and Eva's relationship and the baby they are expecting . Little prepare us as Eva tells Samuel she is expecting , something that comes out of nowhere , but we go along with it . The screen play is not the best thing going for this film , that like some recent Spanish fare have weaknesses in that department . Pilar Lopez Ayala , a lovely actress gives Eva a lot of class . Alejo Sauras , who plays Sanuel seems to be lost most of the time . Ariadna Gil , who has done better work before has a small , but unconvincing role . Carmen Velazco is funny as Samuel's mother . Juan Echanove appears as the blind critic , and Jorge Sanz is the typical bachelor who wants all the women he meets . Where Mr . Trueba scores is with the music we hear in the film . It was created by Andres Calamalo and Javier Limon . Juan Molina's cinematography captures a modern Madrid at its best . Like his brother , Fernando , David Trueba is a man who has an impeccable musical sense and is shows here .
What was the baby's sign for a change of diapers ?	To think that " Meet the Fockers " went to become one of America's highest grossing films that came out during the Christmas holidays , is a tribute to the people that had the foresight and business acumen to think they had a sure hit with this sequel to " Meet the Parents " The director , Jay Roach , capitalizes on his prior work . In this one , by juxtaposing two different cultures , he must have thought sparks would fly all over the place . While the picture is mildly pleasant , it is still not as funny as it should have been with all the talented people he had on board . In a way , it's a sad state of affairs for some of the most best regarded actors of a generation ago to see themselves in this picture . We never thought we'd see the days when a Dustin Hoffman , or a Robert DeNiro would be reduced to playing these cardboard characters , or be in such a comedy that doesn't give us an indication of what excellent work they ever did in their careers . While in " Meet the Parents " there was a certain chemistry between Mr . DeNiro and Mr . Stiller , there's nothing of the sort in this one . Barbra Streisand is reduced to play a stereotype of a liberal sex therapist . While it might have looked good in the written page , it doesn't translate as anything funny on the screen . Blythe Danner doesn't have anything to do . In retrospect , this picture , like many others , are sold to the public by the well made trailers we saw before the actual film came out . They were much better and funnier . If there are any reasons for never attempting any sequel of an original comedy , " Meet the Fockers " would be the model to study .
The proof is in the bullet !	John Bailey probably knew what he was getting into , when he read Roy Carlson's screen play , otherwise it doesn't make much sense to go ahead with a film that has been done better before . That said , " China Moon " is not a total disappointment . If you haven't seen the movie , please stop reading here . There are a few things that indicate that Rachel wanted to use Kyle from the beginning . There are also hints that Lamar , Kyle's detective partner , is into something . How could a good detective like Kyle fall prey to the exchange of the the bullet that is extracted from Rupert Monro's body ? The filmmakers take a chance in presenting a half baked pie to the viewers , many of whom are into mysteries , and think the plot will be taken at face value , when in reality , our minds are going in different directions . The fans of this genre solve the puzzle before the movie's conclusion . That said , the movie is easy to watch . Ed Harris , makes a credible Kyle . This actor is one of the best working in movies today , and even if it's not a good picture , Mr . Harris can be counted to give an excellent performance . His detective offers a good character study of a professional man that makes a fatal judgment when he gets involved with Rachel . Madeleine Stowe is a beautiful woman . In this movie she plays Rachel with conviction ; her scenes with Ed Harris shows clearly she can hold her own against anyone . Benicio Del Toro's Lamar , as Lamar , offers an interesting performance , something we expect from him as a matter of course . Charles Dance , as the rich husband who likes to fool around , is only seen too short . This is a movie to watch when the weather is bad outside . It will please anyone who doesn't expect too much .
About 10 characters with a full moon in L . A .	This indie was shown recently on cable . Alexandre Rockwell ( any relation to Sam ? ) directs this strange account of a night in L . A . While the film is interesting there are a lot of things that make absolute no sense in the way the director , working with Brandon Cole in the screen play , presents the story and then proceeds to solve it in the next 90 minutes . Mr . Rockwell has to be congratulated in employing these young talent . Given the choice between a studio film and and independent one , I will always choose the latter one . That said , there are a lot of unanswered questions in the film . We have no inkling at the beginning of the film that Timmy is a sick boy , he is suddenly in the hospital where a donor has been matched and will undergo a kidney transplant . The donor is Slovo , a man who was hit by the boy's father , and it's an obnoxious man . The quest for the search of this man , who disappeared from the hospital , is at the core of the action . It gives the writers an excuse for bringing the assorted characters into the picture . Another thing that doesn't make sense is how can anyone be arrested for attending a T & A club ? Evidently it can only happen in the city of Angels ! There is the rapper with the gorgeous girlfriend who can't carry a tune who come to help the boy and his father and in the process take us into the streets of a seedy section of town and end up in the rapper's mansion where everyone jumps in the pool . There are a lot things that don't make sense , but we go along the ride because the director , at times , shows signs of brilliant film making , but ultimate , the movie leaves us questioning a lot of things as to why they happen . The cast is wonderful . Daryl Mitchell and Rose Collins are perfect as the rapper and his girlfriend . Steve Buscemi and Peter Dinklage as the clowns , don't get a lot to do . Pruitt Taylor Vince , an actor's actor makes an incredible Owen , the man who will eventually save the boy . David Proval and Elizabeth Bracco are the estranged parents of the sick young boy , Timmy , who is portrayed with an uncanny maturity by Austin Wolff . Jennifer Beals and Sam Rockwell have only limited time in front of the camera . While we wished " 13 Moons " would have been better , it shows a great team of writers as well as an excellent director .
Come out wherever you are . . . . .	As a psychological thriller , or a horror film , " Hide and Seek " doesn't break new ground . In fact , once it's over , the viewer feels somehow manipulated by what we have just witnessed . There are , supposedly , four different alternative endings for the movie , but unfortunately , the one being shown , doesn't add anything to what we have already seen . Although the film has some interesting moments , director John Polson has gone for the Grand Guignol effect . Ari Schlosberg's screen play gives us hints about what to expect , yet , when we realize the mystery at the center of the story , we keep scratching our heads . Suffice it to say , this film doesn't add anything to Robert DeNiro's brilliant career . Mr . DeNiro's last choices in films puzzle us , as well as his fans because we know he is capable of doing much better . Yet , as shown with this film and " Meet the Parents " , and its sequel , " Meet the Fockers " , " Analize This " , and " Analize That " , the actor keeps us wondering about his choices . Dakota Fanning is a young actress who shows an uncanny sense of how to upstage Mr . DeNiro in most of their scenes together . As Emily , in this film , this girl shows an enormous range in what she is capable of doing . One can see Ms . Fanning growing to be another Jody Foster in later years . The rest of the cast is completely underused . Amy Irving is only seen in flashbacks , which is a shame since she is a valuable actress . Famke Janssen has a few key scenes . The same goes for Melissa Leo , Elisabeth Shue and Robert John Burke . The only consolation was it was shown on cable and we felt lucky not having spent the price of admission .
Turkish dud	Raoul Walsh could not make anything with Eric Ambler's text . This is a poor attempt to cash on the " Casablanca " success , without any panache at all . The plot is ridiculous , as is the studio set . The train scenes were probably done using toy models , and very badly filmed and edited , at that . With the exception of Peter Lorre , Sidney Greenstreet , and Turhan Bey , this would be a movie to avoid like the plague . George Raft acting left a lot to be desired . He looks at times puzzled by being in the movie . As far as the action goes , he just doesn't seem to be credible . Brenda Marshall as a Russian spy ? If one can believe that , anything is possible . One of the worst acted pictures of the era !
For the boys	Entertaining the boys during WWII was something most performers loved to do because they felt it was their patriotic duty at a time when everyone felt that conflict was a just cause . That is basically what happens in this fun filled 1943 movie directed by Alan Dawn . We meet a group of actors and singers taking an around the world trip to keep up the morale of the combating soldiers . Featured prominently was Kay Kayser and his orchestra . Mr . Kayser was a man that felt good in front of the camera as well as conducting his orchestra and singers . Out of the talent in the film , the irresistible Joan Davis has the best opportunities . She was a funny lady with excellent timing , who could keep up with the best . Mischa Auer is also among the group of actors and singers accompanying Mr . Kayser in this world tour . Marcy McGuire is seen as the girl that stows away in the plane and makes herself a valuable asset in entertaining the troops . The film is a pleasant trip back to those days .
Looking for Greta	This film brought to mind our own encounter with the elusive Ms . Garbo one afternoon as we held the door open for her at the 59th St . entrance of Bloomingdale's . Ms . Garbo could be seen around her East Side neighborhood , where people didn't even stare at her out of respect of her privacy ! Manhattan in the 50s , 60s and even 70s had a lot of antique dealers on 3rd . Ave . and Ms . Garbo was a constant figure browsing those stores . Greta Garbo , the once silver screen goddess , lived a modest life in Manhattan . Her trade mark was the shade of lipstick she always wore and the camel hair coat one saw on her , until in later years when she adopted a brown duffle coat whenever she went out . Sidney Lumet's film pays homage to that fleeting figure . The mysterious woman is at the center of a film that perhaps is not so much about the mythical figure , as much as the allure of what she stood for . The story of the terminally ill Estelle Rolfe is a sweet account in how her loving son Gilbert tries to bring the illusion of the movies to his dying mother . The movie shows to what lengths Gilbert goes to grant Estelle a moment with the person she most admired , the actress Greta Garbo . Estelle was a fan , but more than that , she was a no nonsense lady who championed righteousness above all . Anne Bancroft was born to play Estelle . Ms . Bancroft knew this woman and her portrayal benefits from the way she plays her . As the son , Ron Silver is good . He will go to whatever extreme to please his mother . Carrie Fisher is Lisa , the California girl married to Gilbert who doesn't want to stay in New York . Veteran actors like Howard Da Silva , Stephen Hill , Herminone Gingold , Dorothy Loudon , Harvey Fierstein are seen in the film in supporting parts . " Garbo Talks " is not one of Sidney Lumet's best movies , but still , one gets the feeling what it is to live in New York with this tale about the celluloid meeting reality in Manhattan .
The past	Certain films , such as Hector Babenco's " El pasado " elicit a strong dislike by misguided users of this forum . Even more surprising , for a movie that had poor distribution and was seen by only a handful of viewers , is the amount of votes users of IMDb have sent . It appears a disgruntled person is pushing the negative response in the six comments , so far , for this picture . It's almost incredible that , in some cases more than 300 bad responses have been submitted for the first review that appears on this page , or that someone will go into such lengths to take such action . Abuse like this happens a lot with certain films when an individual , probably , takes it upon himself to make it appear the movie in question is even worse than what it is . That type of negativity should be watched by the panel in charge of IMDb . " El pasado " is based on a lengthy book of more than five hundred pages by Alan Pauls , an Argentine author . The director , and his collaborator , Marta Goes , must have gone through a painful process in order to bring the novel to cinematic terms . That said , the film is a character study of a man that had it all and didn't realize what he had , to begin with , and wastes his life while searching for a balance that will make sense of what fate had in store for him . When we first meet Rimini and Sofia , they appear a normal couple on their way to a party . Little prepares us to realize this pair will announce to an amazed gathering their intention of separating after twelve years of marriage . Rimini and Sofia have known each other since childhood . Their union , which would be solid , as far as one knows , is far from being the perfect marriage . This premise will take both Rimini and Sofia into uncharted territory , in spite of the fact that both former lovers still have a lot in common . Since their split is amicable , Sofia even helps Rimini find an apartment , one would expect to have them see one another at times . Rimini falls in love with the beautiful young model Vera . Rimini appears to be happy , but his addiction to cocaine and the easy life in which he finds himself accompanying Vera , proves to be his own undoing . Vera , in a fit of jealousy , runs away from Rimini and is killed by a bus . Rimini finds comfort with the beautiful Carmen , a translator , who obviously likes him . The life they share is a cozy one . Rimini suddenly begins suffering from a strange case where he loses his ability to translate from one language into another . Carmen , who has a difficult pregnancy , delivers a boy by Caesarean section . Lucio , the infant fulfills their lives until Sofia , who appears suddenly , takes the young boy with her , much to Rimini's surprise . Carmen , who blames him for this demands , and gets , a divorce . What follows is a downward path where Rimini finds himself alone , unable to work and destitute , landing in jail at the height of his despair . Not all is lost for this man because Sofia , who still cares for him will reappear in his life and Rimini will accept his fate , at last . Hector Babenco got excellent work out of his cast . Gabriel Garcia Bernal , one of the most interesting actors working today , makes a good Rimini with even a porteno accent . Analia Couceyro makes an appealing Sofia in a demanding role . Ana Celentano appears as Carmen and Mariana Anghileri is seen as Vera .
Get'em Carter !	Don't ever get involved in committing a crime , at least not if Anna Carter is around and gets your number . You've better watch out ! This young lady has seen her share of hard times in her lifetime . She was the sole survivor of a crime meant for another family . You see , the killer got the wrong address and ended offing Anna's parents and sister . Now , when we meet her , she is hellbent in getting justice done , if not to the assassin of her folks , she will take care of those who commit serious crimes in our society . To make matters worse , Anna discovers her headaches are related to a malignant tumor . She gets bad migraines all the time . Her doctor doesn't give her much to live . That's why Anna must rush to eliminate the scum out of the same society in which she lives , trying , perhaps to avenge her family . Since she has the use of a private corporate jet , she is a frequent traveler with benefits that include being in the targeted areas , thus combining work with her avenging activities . Not even the hunky boyfriend that appears in her life will get her away from what she has set out to do . There is an interesting twist at the end when a detective figures it all out , but he too , sees things from Anna's perspective . " Juncture " , as directed by James Seale , shows a lot can be done on a small budget , something to give him credit for . Mr . Seale has a great eye for the locations in which he shot the film with glossy detail . The cinematography of Richard Lerner is one of the highlights of the movie . The acting is adequate as it shows a leading lady , Kristine Blackport with a beauty and affinity for the material .
Spaghetti a la Chinese	Archie Mayo's 1938 " The Adventures of Marco Polo " is an odd film to watch . Even giving it the benefit of the doubt , this misguided attempt to bring the legendary figure to the screen doesn't quite make it . Not even by a stretch of the imagination can we believe that the Chinese inhabitants of Cathay could look like these actors on the screen . John Cromwell and John Ford are not credited , but they must have been called as consultants to a losing enterprise that even these talented directors couldn't help fix . Robert Sherwood , a distinguished writer of better films , is responsible for writing the screen treatment , but frankly , his imprint is lacking in the finished product . Of course , times have changed and no Hollywood producer would dare to give this type of " entertainment " to today's audiences because they would be seen as ridiculous , at best . The film came out at a time when audiences were less sophisticated and more willing to accept stories such as this one . Even for a film produced by Samuel Goldwyn , this production looks tacky . It's obvious the people behind this film either had budget problems , or they didn't get the right art directors to improve the film . Gary Cooper , as Marco Polo , appears to be lost . The beautiful Sigrid Gurie is made out to look oriental to resemble this Princess Kukachin she is supposed to be . The only one that escapes the debacle is Basil Rathbone . His Ahmed is a villain , and he plays it with relish . George Truex , Alan Hale , H . B . Warner , are seen in minor roles . Watch this film as a curiosity , but don't expect too much .
Charlie Kate , Medicine Woman	Joan Micklin Silver , the director of this film has done better before . She must have been attracted to the material . The novel was much better , as usually is the case when the adaptation is from a book and not from a short story . The film is pleasant to watch , but it seems hollow in parts . Charlie Kate was a determined woman ; she gets rid of a husband that is a waste and sets up a domestic practice to help everyone that is sick . She had an innate sense for healing , as the man who she saves from being lynched tells her at the beginning of the film . Gena Rowlands is good as the indomitable Charlie Kate . When she has good material , this actress excels . The surprise of the film is without a doubt , Mimi Rogers , an actress that is far superior than others of her generation . Unfortunately , she doesn't get what she deserves . The rest of the cast is good too . This is a nostalgic look of America in the early 40s .
Ms Plath regrets	While watching this film a thought occurred to this viewer : Why do women with so much talent as Sylvia Plath get always attracted to the wrong kind of guy ? She could have certainly done much better than the pompous Ted Hughes , who she ends up marrying . Ms . Plath's life has been the subject of curiosity and admiration for generations after her death . Isn't it ironic she never got the recognition she deserved while she lived her tragic life putting up with a husband that couldn't care less about her , let alone keep his pants on whenever he met a new victim for his sexual fun and games ? To say that she was her own victim is to just touch lightly on the subject . This was a troubled soul who is swept off her feet by someone that didn't deserve her . Gwyneth Paltrow has the proper look as Plath , but there is something missing from her performance . Ms . Paltrow is an actress who does her research well and she is convincing as the tragic woman of the story . Watching her play Sylvia seems empty in many ways , be it because of director Christine Jeffs direction , or that the viewer has a sense of detachment watching the film as it unfolds on the screen . One could not really pinpoint to where the fault is and what is lacking in the adaptation of this Sylvia Plath's biography . Daniel Craig makes us despise his Ted Hughes , a man who went to bigger and better things while his wife , who obviously was more talented in her short life . She ends her life because she cannot imagine a life without him because her own insecurity about having to compete with her own husband , whose early fame took him into a different dimension .
On the road	Michael Cimino's " The Sunchaser " , as was shown the other night on a cable station , looked faded . Working on a screen play by Charles Leavitt , Mr . Cimino doesn't add anything new to this genre . If you haven't seen the movie , please stop reading now . The choice of Woody Harrelson to play Dr . Michael Reynolds , seems to have been the wrong decision . Mr . Harrelson , a good actor , otherwise , appears out of his league and sometimes out of character . Dr . Reynolds is , at the beginning of the film , a man more interested in going to higher and better places , rather than treating some of the patients he's assigned to see . He has all the accoutrements that go with his position as a rising oncologist , including his brand new red Porsche , the status symbol of Angelinos . When he is made to go along with the sick prisoner Blue , he gets a taste of what the ghetto is like . He has no choice but to go along for a ride with this disturbed young man . Blue is a Navajo by birth , but he's been away from his roots in a while . Along the way to the Navajo sacred mountain , this odd couple experience quite a lot . Dr . Reynolds doesn't warm up to Blue at all . When a kind soul , Dr . Baumbauer , gives the pair a lift , Reynolds voices his prejudices loudly . After all , he's a man that has been trained professionally , therefore , he doesn't have time for these New Age charlatans who think the same way as Blue . The ending is predictable . Woody Harrelson is miscast in the movie . Jon Seda , as the fugitive Blue , gives an uneven performance . The only one that fares better is Anne Bancroft , in her small role of a wise doctor Reynolds and Blue meet on the road . Just out of curiosity , I watched the credits to see if the production company would have clarified that " No Porsche was damaged during the filming process " . . . . .
Mattie and Wesley	Arthur Allan Seidelman has worked extensively on television . This film , adapted from a good novel by Clyde Edgerton , with a screen play by Paul Tomasy , looks as though made expressly for the small screen as it has that certain look of well intentioned movies that usually turn up on Lifetime , or are made into a Hallmark special feature . The main attraction for watching the movie is the casting put together for the project . Ellen Burstyn , a wonderful actress is Mattie Rigsbee , an older woman living by herself in a small community in the South . This well intentioned lady decides , after hearing her pastor read some bible passages , that she will bring food to one boy in a juvenile detention camp in her area . That's how she gets to meet Wesley , a boy that knows his way around the system . The relationship between Mattie and the young man , is in sharp contrast with the one Mattie and her own adult children have . Mattie's son lives by himself ; her daughter wants to send her mother to a ' retirement home ' , instead of helping her . That aspect of the novel doesn't come across too well in the film , which concentrates in Mattie and Wesley . Ellen Bursyn's Mattie is the best thing in the film . Since she has been so isolated from the rest of the community , she is not wise enough to realize the possible danger in welcoming Wesley to stay with her when he turns up at her door . It's obvious that her kindness transforms Wesley , who for the first time is shown genuine affection . Jonathan Taylor Thomas makes a good appearance in the film . Edward Herrman , Dana Ivey , Herve Pernell , Gwen Verdon , Judge Reinhold , Gail O'Grady and Mark Hamill are seen in supportive roles . " Walking Across Egypt " is a heart warming tale about filling the generation gap between Mattie and Wesley with love .
Hoodoo in the Bayou	It's curious how in some Southern states the practice of voodoo , or in the case of " The Skeleton Key " , hoodoo , people don't seem to believe in the practice of these rites , yet , everyone is in awe of the magical powers behind these sort of religions . Voodoo , hoodoo , or even santeria , are religious practices brought from Africa from the poor black people that were forced into slavery , and continue to be practiced in some sort of variation , even today . That is the premise behind this film . A young health care worker , Caroline Ellis , arrives at what appears to be a haunted house in rural Louisiana . The man of the house , Ben Devereaux , has been stricken by a rare illness that is never specified , but it has made him weak and must be helped for everything by his young nurse . Ben is married to the strident Violet , a woman who seems to know much more than what she tells Caroline . For starters , there are no mirrors in the house , which is strange . Violet gives Caroline the master key , or ' skeleton key ' to the house , but warns her not to poke her nose into the attic . Well , it's just like telling Caroline : " Here , go and snoop in there " , which she does . What she finds really surprises her . The pictures she finds , together with all the other paraphernalia make Caroline suspect there is much more involved behind Ben's illness and Violet's apparent sweetness . To complicate things more , there is Luke Marshall , a young lawyer , who we meet at the beginning of the story , but who seems to be closer to Violet in more ways than one . Caroline will discover things she didn't imagine were there . In a surprising twist at the end , even Caroline can't help get more than what she bargained for when she decided to investigate what was wrong in the first place . Kate Hudson , as Caroline is perfect as the somewhat naive woman with an inquisitive mind . Gina Rowlands plays Violet Devereaux , who seems to hold not only the skeleton key , but she is the key for understanding what goes on in that spooky Southern mansion . John Hurt is seen briefly as the long suffering husband . Peter Sarsgaard appears as the sly lawyer who knows a lot more than he lets on . For lovers of the horror genre , director Iain Softley , has worked hard to involve the viewer in the story . Although a trifle slow at the beginning the director picks up the pace during the last part of the movie creating the necessary suspense to please the viewer .
Two sisters and a con man	Donald Westlake deserves much better than this adaptation that Fernando Trueba and his brother David did to the book . Mr . Westlake , together with Elmore Leonard , are two of the best writers of the genre . It appears that either the adapters lost something in translation , or maybe the studio didn't let the Truebas get what they wanted to do . The casting of Antonio Banderas in the dual role of Art / Bart presents problems because he is a quintessential Latin man , who is supposed to be a small con artist working in Florida ; his accent doesn't solve this problem either . We don't believe for a moment he is this " artful dodger " , let alone Art Dodge . Mr . Banderas has done better , but not here . The best sequence in the film involves Art / Bart shuttling between Liz and Betty's separate rooms , where the actor gets all the laughs . Daryl Hannah , who plays Liz , fares better , although it's hard to imagine this brainy woman could fall for this small time con artist . Melanie Griffith doesn't have much to do , and we can be thankful for a performance where all her mannerisms are not shown . The best thing in the film is Joan Cusack , who is seen as Gloria , the art gallery assistant who steals the show from the principals . There is also a delightfully funny appearance by the late Vincent Schiavelli , who is seen as a finicky sommelier at a tony restaurant . ( We kept thinking how could Art / Bart pick up the check on the two occasions when he takes Betty , first , and then Liz , to that expensive place , as he can't even pay his other bills . . . ) In some minor roles we see Eli Wallach , Danny Aiello , and Austin Pendleton , among others . The best thing in the film is the musical sound track by the talented Michel Camilo , who had already collaborated with Mr . Trueba in " Calle 54 " . He is seen at the end of the picture playing with some Latin jazz giants like Paquito D'Rivera and Cachao . One kept hoping they would have been seen more in the film .
Working for the man	" Dirty Work " was shown the other night on cable . Not having a clue as to what it was about , we decided to take a chance . The film , while uneven , shows a new director , Bruce Terris , that with a stronger material can go to bigger and better movies . Mr . Terris knows how to present a story and bring different elements together to make a film that will satisfy fans of this genre . The mixing of crime and politics is at the center of the film . We meet dirty detectives that work for a sick old man who controls a great deal of the underground in Chicago . We also see how an aspiring District Attorney is drawn into the web of intrigue when he makes a stupid mistake , something that will play heavily in his ambitions . Little does Frank Sullivan know that he'll end up serving the same man who has been the center of his political platform he is running on to be elected . The ironic twist at the end comes out of nowhere as a surprise . The acting in the film could have improved with a stronger lead . Lance Reddick , as Manning , the dirty cop , is a puzzle most of the time . No idea if the director wanted him to underplay his character , or he just didn't have a hold on the role . Austin Pendleton , a versatile actor , is about the best thing in the movie . Frank McGlone has good moments also . One can only hope Bruce Terris finds better inspiration for his next movie .
The solid red car	The main attraction going for this film is the futuristic car shown in it , which for 1959 looked way ahead of its times . The comedy , as directed by George Marshall tries to be a movie exploiting the sexual tensions between the two stars . The same premise was achieved with better results in other films of the era , notably , " Pillow Talk " . The mere idea of a young married couple putting such a barrier between their sexual life is risible , at best . The two stars , Debbie Reynolds and Glenn Ford try their best , but are bogged down because of the screen play . As someone has already noted , the film shows in minor roles actors that went to better careers in television . Eva Gabor , Harry Morgan , Edgar Buchanan , Frances Bavier , among them . The basic excuse for watching the film is the car and some views of Spain , as it looked in the late fifties . In fact , a woman in slacks , as we see Ms . Reynolds at the beginning of the film , as she arrived in Madrid , was a big no-no in the Spanish society of the time . Things have changed since then !
San Pablo's own version of the Parade of the Roses !	Never having seen " Ride the Pink Horse " , we decided to take a look at it , based mainly , on the strong writers credited with the adaptation , Ben Hecht and Charles Lederer , two of the best men in the business . One wonders if it was the studio's art people that decided to give the film a phony Mexican look , or did it come from the screen play itself . Not having read the novel , we can't comment if the book had the same basic faults one finds in the finished product . The direction by Robert Montgomery doesn't help matters . First of all , San Pablo is obviously one of the towns in Northern Mexico close to California . The first thing one sees are the local women , dressed in costumes from another century ; even the trio that meets Lucky's bus , is seen in long Indian costumes , sorry , but even for 1947 , it seems to be completely out of place . One wonders if the production company thought they were filming something out of Pancho Villa's times and decided San Pablo's women were still living in the XIX century . The fatal casting mistake of having a blue eyed Wanda Hendrix playing the mysterious Pilar makes the viewer do a double take . This is a role that screams for a sultry senorita , someone of the stature of a Katy Jurado , or another sultry star , not this beautiful actress that seemed to be lost playing the Mexican girl ! One thing that doesn't come across in the film is what might have made Pilar fall heads over heels with this Americano at first sight ! Even in the fiesta scenes one sees a lot of Americans marching as part of the parade . It would have made more sense to have seen local folks from San Pablo , but not from L . A . Then there is Pancho , a stereotype , if ever there was one ! Thomas Gomez was an American actor born in New York , who had an impeccable diction , but he is made to speak Spanish with the heavy English accent . Talk about the things that were given to audiences of that era in the way of realism ! Lucky Gagin , during the first part of the film seems a man out of place . Mr . Montgomery's take on this man cried for perhaps another tough actor to play it . Mr . Montgomery , as a comedian , or in light fare was an excellent actor , but in heavier parts , seemed to be out of place . The best thing going for the film is the fabulous performance of Art Smith , who at times reminded us of an old Robin Williams , as Bill Retz , the government agent looking to bring Frank Hugo to justice . Mr . Smith shines in the film every time one sees him . Also Andrea King , seen as Marjorie Lundeen , the bad girl friendly with Hugo and his group . Fred Ward as the deaf gangster has some good moments . The film , while not a total dud , seems to be confused in what it's trying to show . Perhaps with a different treatment and better casting for the two principal roles , this film would have fared better , even with the perplexing atmosphere of the Mexican locale .
The student's revenge	Fred Williamson's directorial debut is a movie targeted for teen agers . This comedy , with black overtones , is not a total failure . The story line is not the best asset of the film , which presents us with a situation that doesn't go anywhere , as it brings a cruel side on the young people in the story that doesn't ring true . Mrs . Tingle , a tyrannical history professor , clearly dislikes most of the students in her senior class . Leigh Ann , an earnest young woman needs whatever help she can get from her teacher in order to get the scholarship she so desperately needs . It is clear Leigh Ann will never get any sympathy from Mrs . Tingle . The situation deteriorates when Luke , one of the guys in Mrs . Tingle's class gets hold of the final exam and shows it to Leigh Ann and Joe Lynn , her best friend who has a crush on the young man . Mrs . Tingle happens to walk on them and discovers it on Leigh Ann's bag . The chances for the scholarship , and the possible for an expulsion from school , are almost assured . Instead of confessing , Luke , doesn't even open his mouth . He lets Mrs . Tingle walk out vowing she'll do whatever to have them punished . Expusion is a possibility for the trio . So what do they do ? They go to Mrs . Tingle's home wanting to make amends , but she is unmoved . One thing leads to another as they try to get her to change her mind about the theft of the exam , something she will never even consider . The best thing in the movie is Helen Mirren . She is perfect as the lonely teacher who loves to mock and ridicule the young people under her . She is a frustrated woman who has no life , but who loves to make fun of others because basically she doesn't tolerate the fact that some other people are happy . Katie Holmes , plays Leigh Ann . She is not as effective here as in some other films . Barry Watson and Marisa Caughlan are Leigh's friends . Jeffrey Tambor only has one scene in the film , but he makes the best out of it . Molly Ringwald , Miichael McKean and Vivica Fox are seen in supporting roles . " Teaching Mrs . Tingle " doesn't break new ground , but it keeps the viewer involved in it .
Rule Britannia !	The only excuse to see this film is Rowan Atkinson . When he is good , he is terrific , and very funny . It's a shame this film doesn't allow Mr . Atkinson show his talents , due , do doubt , to the silly treatment this movie has been given by the production people behind it . At times , this film is very funny , but it's a shame that it could have been helped with a more satisfying script to make it worth of Mr . Atkinson's screen persona . All that said , it's not a horrible film , but just think what it could have been if all the elements would have jelled to make it better !
Catfish hunter	Another Hallmark movie made for television which has all the elements that are always included in their presentations . Like basically everything we see coming from the Hallmark folks , we are taken to scenic spots of our country , in this case rural Oregon , with its natural beauty and excellent outdoor quality that translates so well into the stories at hand . " The Valley of Light " takes the viewer back to the 1940s at the end of WWII . Noah , a soldier without work , is surprised to find his younger brother in jail . He decides to escape from it all , perhaps because what he experienced overseas in Europe , to a more peaceful setting . He finds he has an knack for fishing in rivers and streams where he seems to pull catfish in record numbers . One day he meets Hoke , an older man , who tells him about his ability to see " angels " and who advises him to go into the Valley of Light where nice folks live . At the valley , he finds an ideal place in where to spend time . He endears himself to the local population where he is regarded as something of a marvel because , when prompted , he can fish better than anyone . Noah seems to know where to cast his line with good results . He meets the lovely widow of a soldier that has committed suicide . Noah seems to have everything he hoped for , yet , tragedy strikes taking a young boy who he feels responsible for his untimely death . As directed by Brent Shields , this film fits perfectly in what is expected from the sponsor . Was it me , or didn't Chris Klein , who plays Noah , kept reminding us of Keanu Reeves ? Mr . Klein doesn't show the intensity that perhaps Mr . Reeves would have brought to his role , but he is adequate . Lovely Gretchen Mol is perfectly sweet as Eleanor , the young widow who awakens to love after being so lonely . Others in the cast include the excellent Robert Prosky , Jay O . Sanders , Stephen Tobolowsky , in a small pivotal role , Zach Mills and Kevin Chamberlin . This is a film that while not breaking any ground , will delight the audience for which is targeted .
The American dream	Chu Chu Ramirez , the Mexican immigrant has reason to feel elated : he has just become an American citizen . Ramirez believes in the fairness of his new country , after all , he complies with the law , keeps away from trouble and believes he has a future in the country . Alas , some of the dreams and aspirations of Chu Chu take a turn for the worse , when he goes to work for a farmer that promises ninety dollars to clear a field . Ansel Ames , the landowner , has no intentions of paying him anything at the end of the month . Chu Chu feels cheated , but since he firmly believes in the legal system , where he knows he will prevail . Chu Chu has a taste in the American justice and by the end , he is vindicated for the crime he didn't commit . William Wellman's " My Man and I " has a dated look . Perhaps at the time when the film was released it showed more impact than what it has today . Ricardo Montalban and Shelley Winters have some good moments , as well as Claire Trevor and Wendel Corey . Jack Elam plays a minor part as a friend of Chu Chu .
Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz !	Insomnia almost put me to sleep ! Why do talented people as the ones behind this film go into a remake of something that was done better already , instead of creating something fresh and new . ? Al Pacino is a candidate of a total makeover . Send him to the next session of Oprah so they can create a new image and a visit to a plastic surgeon should help out great Pacino continue for a long time as a hero on the big screen . There are 2 great things that happen in this film : Martin Donovan is seen in the first scenes and Robin Williams doesn't show his face until almost the last half of the film . That , together with the rainy atmosphere of Alaska started me , and a few others in the audience , yawning and falling asleep . Better luck next time Mr . Nolan . I wish you would find an original story to direct your next " memento " . . .
To the lighthouse	Rachel Carlson , who by the way was the name of a real novelist , lends her name to the character being played by Demi Moore in this film that seems to have " borrowed " different aspects of " Don't Look Now " and better made films of this genre as a vehicle for the star , an actress that shows to have no knack for choosing movie roles . After all , she deserves better . Unfortunately , the screen play by Craig Rosenberg , who also directed , doesn't make much sense . This seems to be a film that either the viewer loves it , as seems to be the case of most comments submitted to IMDb , or else hate it , as the other side seems to indicate . Our own experience was mixed . Demi Moore can be excellent with the right director behind her . Otherwise , she gives performances that will not add anything to her career . As a matter of fact , this film seems to have gone to DVD and cable right away , or at least , it has not garnered the wide audience the creators obviously wanted . There are some spooky elements in the film to get the viewer excited . It's just that as the film unfolds , it appears to be a case of deja vu . Or at least , we have figured it all out before it happens .
The Mexicans among us	Sergio Arau's satire " A Day Without a Mexican " takes a poignant look at something that has been in the news lately . Mr . Arau's new take on the theme he has explored already , give us a vision about how inter connected we are in this country . This movie will resonate more with people from California . Mexicans in that state account for most of the immigrants , illegal , or otherwise . We are given the premise that a fog is enveloping the state and all Mexicans have disappeared into it . The Anglos , so dependent for much of the work from Mexicans don't seem to be coping well when the reality about having to do something they take for granted will be done by their Mexican workers . Yareli Arizmendi and Eduardo Palomo do fine work under Mr . Arau's direction .
The Victims	" Suspect Zero " is a rare hybrid that had a lot of potential . As directed by E . Elias Merhige , the film offers a lot of possibilities , that unfortunately , because of the narrative , gets bogged down in one of the darkest films that have come out in recent years . The premise sounds interesting . The FBI agent Tom Mackelway is suspended for six months after he goes into Mexico to get a suspect . Then , he is transferred to the Albuquerque office , something of a letdown for this man . Soon , after being there , he starts receiving faxes about crimes unsolved from all over the country . Everything seems to point out to O'Ryan , another former FBI man who can see in his mind different crimes , but he can't stop them . Then , it becomes clear O'Ryan is feeding the information to Mackelway in order to have him solve the mystery behind them . The acting by Ben Kingsley and Aaron Eckhart is what keeps us interested in what's going on . Carry-Anne Moss makes a valuable contribution to the film . One keeps hoping the director will find a worthy subject for his next venture as he shows a promise to shine in whatever he will attempt to do in the future .
Barren	Yerma , a young woman whose marriage to Juan has produced no children , is frustrated because she sees the years go by without having the child she yearns for . It's clear Yerma doesn't love Juan . It's Victor , the young shepherd that has shown affection to her , that Yerma desires . Living in the backward region of Andalucia , she becomes an object of gossip because everyone has seen her with Victor . " Yerma " the excellent play of one of Spain's best known poets , Federico Garcia Lorca , is given a tepid cinematic translation by its director , Pilar Tavora , who also adapted it for the cinema . This " Yerma " cries for a stronger hand to bring all that Lorca created , and worst of all , all the Lorcan poetry is not to be found in this version . As already pointed out by another contributor , a memorable staging of the play by the Spanish actress Nuria Espert , is still vivid in one's imagination . Aitana Sanchez Gijon , a great beauty , is not exactly what one would have imagined for the lead role . Ms . Sanchez Gijon casts a bland presence in the movie and throws it out of balance . The other performances are adequate , but the director didn't inspire her cast to do a better job the way she had staged the film . It's a dark piece of film-making that doesn't provoke the audience . Among the supporting players we see Irene Papas , who plays the old pagan woman . Juan Diego is seen as Juan , the older husband who is more afraid of his honor than what he has not brought to his marriage . Jesus Cabrero , appears briefly as Victor . Ana Fernandez , and Maria Galiana , who worked together in an extraordinary film , " Solas " , are also seen in minor roles . " Yerma " and Garcia Lorca deserve much better than this feeble attempt to bring it to a wide audience .
On a slow boat to Macao	It appears that " Macao " suffered from the case of too many cooks spoiling the dish . The film , supposedly directed by Joseph Von Sternberg , shows an uncredited Nicholas Ray as also having worked in it . The screen play is credited to Edward Chodorow , but there are other six men that contributed to the story . This film could have been much better , given the great cast RKO put together . Robert Mitchum and Jane Russell had teamed with better results before , so it's a surprise they didn't deliver in this one . The story is typical of those years without making much sense . First of all , for reality's sake , what country would have allowed Nick Cochran to enter its territory without a valid passport . He would have been sent back to wherever he came from ! Of course , then , there would have been no picture . This movie asks a lot from its viewers . The best thing in the film is Brad Dexter , who as Vincent Halloran , gives an excellent performance . William Bendix , plays a traveling salesman that surprises us at the end . Gloria Grahame , a welcome addition in any film of this genre , doesn't have much to do . Although not a horrible film , by any means , we can only think that perhaps with another team of creators , this movie would have been more satisfactory than what we see on the screen .
The fighting buddies	Scott Caan's directorial debut gives us a film that surprises because of the talent he shows and the intelligence it projects . Mr . Caan shows a strong resemblance to his father and he surely makes him proud in his first job behind the camera . This young actor , turned director , seems to be on the right path for bigger and better things . Mr . Caan was able to attract an interesting cast that obviously loved this project as their performances clearly demonstrate on the screen . Shawn Hatosy , who plays Rusty , is an intense young actor who doesn't repeat himself in any of the films in which he plays . In fact , his inter action with Mr . Caan's Dallas , pays off in a good way . The two of them make an excellent combination . Others in the cast include a wonderful Jeff Goldblum , as the therapist who is seeing Rusty's mother . Kelly Lynch makes another good appearance . Bob Gunton , Selma Blair , and the rest of the supporting cast do wonders under Mr . Caan's direction . We look forward to a long career for Scott Caan . He deserves it .
See you later , alligator . . . . .	Bigas Luna is a strange breed of the Spanish cinema : He is out to shock his audience all the time with sex , sex , and more sex . How strange , when everyone else is busy imitating him . . . The story he gives us here connects Ulyses and Martina in a web of passion in which the same sex they live for prove to be their own downfall . We cannot fault the director with an eye for giving us gorgeous women like Penelope , Aitana , Leonor , and others just as beautiful , except Romaine Bohringer in The Chambermaid of the Titanic . Mr . Bigas Luna has an eye for the visual , as he demonstrates with the opening scenes with the sounds effects and music . The only problem with this film is that the story doesn't hold when it turns out to be another soap opera in which Ms . Watling goes into her own fashion show . While it is fun to watch , one comes out after seeing this film empty of any emotional involvement with the characters or the situation that was presented here . Jordi Molla and Leonor Watling make an attractive couple . It's obvious that Mr . Molla's screen appearances let him express himself by letting it all " hang out " as shown in this film as well as in Second Skin ! Well done Bigas Luna and see your alligator later . . . . . . . . .
Canadian Mountie to the rescue	Raoul Walsh , the director of " Northern Pursuit " , was a man with impressive credentials during his days in Hollywood . Unfortunately , this film , which kept reminding this viewer of Michael Powell's " 49th Parallel " , has its moments and will reward the viewer that sticks with it , in some ways . The plot was typical of the films turned by the big studios during the days of WWII . Although the propaganda in " Northern Pursuit " doesn't strike the viewer as too obvious , it's there all along . The idea of a Royal Mountie , in this case , the dashing Errol Flynn , going after the bad guys have all the elements for a good adventure . The screen play is ultimately the downfall of the film , although there are hints of greatness , especially on the last part of the film which involves a daring attempt from the head Nazi infiltrator to fly an aircraft with a bomb on board . The locations appear to be real , but we can see the scenes shot in the studio . Errol Flynn does his job well . Helmut Dantine , playing Keller , the Nazi bad guy , is even better . Gene Lockhart has a pivotal role in the film . Julie Bishop is Errol Flynn's love interest , although there's no obvious chemistry between them . Raoul Walsh's fans will probably enjoy this film a lot more than the casual viewer .
Sincerely yours ,	We avoided watching this movie when it was released commercially , even though we had read Cathleen Schine's novel in which this movie is based on . Director Peter Chan's take on the story looks good on the screen ; what with the picturesque setting of Rockford , Ma . , as the background and all the cute houses where the story takes place . The result is a film that is easy on the eye , but alas , like eating a Chinese dinner , it leaves us hungry for more . Helen , the owner of a book store , finds a letter between the cushions of the couch of the shop . She reads it , and it sounds intriguing , because the writer goes to express how deeply he feels for the person the letter has been sent to . Since it has no name , Helen assumes it has been intended for her alone . She believes Johnny , the young assistant , has sent it to her . The young man , who likes the older Helen , is only too happy to tell her how he feels about her . Basically , " The Love Letter " is a story about missed opportunities . Helen who was in love with George , the local chief firefighter , married someone else , but her marriage failed . George also is getting a divorce . George confesses he had gone away to New York when he was younger to get away from Helen and his life in town and he had also sent her a postcard from New York , which Helen had kept , but had not read the message inserted within the card . It's at this moment when Helen comes to her senses when she realizes her affair with Johnny is only a summer fling . The film will be liked by the audience for which it was targeted . Kate Capshaw , who produced the movie , is fine as Helen . Tom Everett Scott plays Johnny . Blythe Danner , Geraldine McEwen , Julianne Nicholson , Tom Selleck , Ellen DeGeneres , and the rest of the cast do good work also . The film has an ironic twist at the end when the real recipient of this letter is revealed .
Saving Marshovia	This 1952 MGM production of Franz Lehar's classic pales in comparison with the Erns Lubitsch's lavish version , that even in black and white , is richer and more appealing to the eye than the later account . Part of the blame must go to whoever decided to tailor make the film to suit its star , Lana Turner , and the direction of Curtis Bernhardt . As an operetta " The Merry Widow " has been delighting audiences for quite some time . The music alone is worth the price of admission , or in this case , the price of being able to get TCM on cable . The other interesting thing is how the Technicolor used in the filming of this remake has faded after more than fifty years . The copy shown by TCM recently had a faded look that made it less interesting to watch . Lana Turner and Fernando Lamas made an attractive couple , but their chemistry doesn't quite make it . Veterans Una Merkel , Thomas Gomez , Richard Haydn , and Marcel Dalio , among others , try their best , but their efforts don't make the film better . We would strongly advise discerning viewers to check out the older Lubitsch's take on this timeless work .
Odds and ends	Some classic films ought to be left alone , as is the case of " Out of the Past " , the Jacques Tourneur's 1947 movie , that can stand on its own . The idea that anyone can remake something that was well done before , or give it with a new treatment , usually ends up badly because we would be comparing the old picture with what someone has done with it now . Whatever possessed Taylor Hackford , an otherwise good director , to try his hand at changing the original , is beyond comprehension since it doesn't improve it , or change it , in a positive way . The film is loosely adapted from Daniel Mainwaring's screenplay . At times , watching this movie , we thought we were watching an adaptation of " Chinatown " , a movie it parallels because of the subject matter and the setting , without the originality . The plot makes no sense , which is probably what makes the new version so wrong . Jeff Bridges , an excellent actor seems to be out of place in the movie . Also , Rachel Ward , doesn't add anything to her portrayal of Jessie . Jane Greer , who appeared in the original film , returns as the ruthless real estate developer . Richard Widmark has nothing to do . James Woods character is also a puzzle . Perhaps the key to this movie is to watch it for the glorious Mexican locales of Cozumel , Chichen Itza and Tulum and listen to Phil Collins title song .
Man's best friend	Solo , a depressed young writer , is told by his analyst to get a dog ; this way , he will not feel as lonely . Little does he know that everyone he meets wants to have the dog ! Solo's life in Los Angeles is dull up until the time he decides to buy the dog in a shopping mall . Solo is not prepared for the work and the responsibility of owning a puppy , let alone trying to keep it to himself . This dark comedy was written and directed , as well as acted by Scott Caan . We were impressed by his " Dallas 362 " , his debut as a director . " The Dog Problem " shows a talented Scott Caan who no doubt will go to do better things , although this is not a movie for everyone since the material will be enjoyed by some audiences and hated by others . The best thing in the picture is , without a doubt , Giovanni Ribisi , who runs away with it . This actor keeps surprising us . He is not exactly a matine idol , yet , he is always an interesting figure in any film in which participates . Scott Caan has a small role as a photographer . Lynn Collins , Mena Suvari , and the excellent Kevin Corrigan , are seen in minor roles .
The sunken treasure	Howard Hughes was a producer that had a lot of talent for discovering beautiful women that went on to have better careers with other vehicles than the ones he decided to create for them . That seems to be the case of this John Sturges ' 1955 film " Underwater ! " in which the curvaceous Jane Russell starred for the last time for Howard Hughes . The film is a curious one . We are introduced to Johnny and Dominic , two underwater divers who are searching for those sunken ships in the Caribbean , especially this one , not too far from Cuba . As they stumble into the old Spanish galleon , they find a man that appears to be a sort of pirate awaiting for them because it's obvious they are after those treasures . As Johnny and Dominic go back to Cuba , we are introduced to Theresa , Johnny's wife , who is dead set against spending money chasing his dreams . But when Dominic meets Gloria , by chance , she tells him about the yacht she has been left with by a departing old flame . So the four friends , and a priest who knows about those sunk ships , go in search of the riches trapped underwater . The film doesn't bring anything new to this film genre . In fact , it's pretty tame stuff we see in a predictable story we know how it will end . The best reward for the viewers of " Underwater " is the beautiful Jane Russell at her best . She was one of the sultriest women working in films during those days . The problem is the male stars who give by the numbers performances . Joseph Calleia is the only one that shows any spunk as the man who wants the riches from under the sea .
The Paramount studio family	" Variety Girl " , a film from 1947 , showed up recently on cable . The film , which takes the theme of the Variety Club , which was a charitable organization involving well known movie people , is an excuse for showcasing the talent players employed by the studio . Paramount was at the time one of the most powerful places in which movies were made . As such , the idea behind this picture was to show how united and family-like the studio was . The story is paper thin . It presents an implausible situation about two young women trying to make it in the movie industry . They , like thousand other hopefuls , attracted by the glamour of Hollywood came to Los Angeles in droves to be discovered . This is exactly what Katherine Brown and Amber Lavonne try to do with amazing results . The fun in watching " Variety Girl " is recognizing stars , larger than life , being caught in the act of being themselves . Thus , we see the likes of Alan Ladd , Dorothy Lamour , Burt Lancaster , Lizabeth Scott , Barbara Stanwych , Gary Cooper , William Holden , William Bendix , and many others involved in either the show that takes the center of the story , or just around the studio , mixing with colleagues and extras . The funniest sequence involved Olga San Juan , who plays Amber , emoting to the high heavens just to be noticed by the many diners at the Brown Derby . Also the singing duo of Bing Crosby and Bob Hope in their rendition of Harmony . This is just an entertainment as conceived by the studio , no doubt . The best way to watch it is just to do so without expecting anything other than a smile . That way it will not disappoint .
Paparazzi	After having seen Louis Malle " Crackers " , we thought the director might have bad luck with that film , but viewing " Vie Privee " , his 1962 effort that deals with fame and being in the limelight , one wonders what did attract him to get involved in this project . Granted , the dubbed English version that was presented recently on cable hasn't kept well and the translated dialog is horrible . The director collaborated with Jean Paul Rappeneau and Jean Ferry in the screen play , which might have made more sense in the original version that what it does in the one we saw . The story about the beautiful Jill , who at first is seen as wanting to be a ballerina , changes without any explanation as this young woman is " discovered " for the movies , something that even for France , never occurs in such a quick fashion , and we can't buy it . Then at the pinnacle of her fame , Jill is thrown into despair as she can't cope with the invading horde of paparazzi that hound her and don't let her live a normal life . Jill runs back home to Geneva to be with her mother and then she turns into Fabio , who was seeing her best friend . The film is tedious , at best . Marcello Mastroianni and Brigitte Bardot appear to be going through the motions , but actually there is no chemistry between them . These two attractive stars seem to have been cast just for their allure to fans , but actually they never connect .
Who is Bill Abernathy ?	Tom Thompson , a nerdy Brooklyn man , is 25 when we meet him . He still lives at home with his overbearing mother , occupying the same room he lived when he was a teen ager . Tom's placid existence comes to an abrupt stop when he receives a phone call from a Mrs . Abernathy , who proceeds to tell him about the death of her son Bill , who supposedly had been a school mate of Tom's , but as much as he tries to remember the departed classmate , he can't seem to remember . She invites him to be a pallbearer at the funeral . At the same time , Tom , who doesn't seem to have social graces at all , meets a young woman , Julie DeMarco , from his past . He always liked her , but being shy , never told her about the way he felt about her . All this happens at the time when Tom is trying to enlist his friends , Brad and Scott , to accompany him to the funeral . Little prepare Tom for the embarrassment he undergoes while delivering the eulogy . After all , he doesn't even remember the dead man ! To make matters worse , Julie , who knew the late Bill Abernathy , is appalled at the spectacle she sees . " The Pallbearer " , based on David Lipsky's novel , which we never read , was adapted for the screen by Matt Reeves , who also directs , and Jason Katims . The film evokes other films , specially certain aspects of " The Graduate " , or even the hit television series " Friends " , in which the leading man , had a prominent role . After watching the movie , we are going to make the point of reading the book , because it appears this work didn't quite translate to the screen , as conceived by its creator . What the film has going for itself is the interesting cast assembled for it . Never having been a fan of David Schwimmer , we have to admit he does a decent job because he is playing against type . Gwyneth Paltrow's take on Julie doesn't quite come across , but she always gives good readings in anything she appears . The surprise was Barbara Hershey , who as Mrs . Abernathy brings substance to a role that could have been a caricature with another , less experienced actress . The excellent supporting role is about the best thing in the movie . Michael Rappaport , a versatile actor , gives a fine performance as Tom's best friend . The amazing Carol Kane is never seen too long , but has a couple of funny scenes as Tom's mother . Tony Collette , as a brunette doesn't get to do much ; also in minor roles , Michael Vartan , Mark Margolies , Elizabeth Franz and the rest , contribute to the film .
L . A . subways	One wonders if the making of the Los Angeles subway system has been ordered by Hollywood , as more and more films are being shot in it lately . Before it was The Italian Job , now , it is S . W . A . T . Is there a metaphor ? Let the viewer decide and interpret . Clark Johnson has recruited a very interesting team to play the SWAT team , led by Samuel L . Jackson . His Hondo is a man that has seen it all and he takes no nonsense from his men . He takes a chance with Jim , who is damaged goods , because of a previous incident caused by his partner . Colin Farrell is very effective in his role of the wronged guy who is trying to redeem himself . The rest of the team is OK . They are all in this together to fight the villain , Alex Montel , played by Olivier Martinez . Why is Mr . Martinez shown always in such an unkempt way ? One can almost ' smell ' him . . . Obviously , he will never be a spokesperson for any men's fragrance in his native country . He needs an image consultant to get out of the bad guy stereotype that Hollywood has given him . The special effects , specially the Lear Jet landing at the bridge , are spectacular . The end is predictable as we know who is going to come out the winner . As summer films go , this was entertaining , even though it doesn't add anything new to the genre .
J-lo = Jello	We avoided this film when it was released , having seen probably the best parts in the trailer that was shown before its debut . Well , having borrowed the DVD and thinking of the savings by not having paid $10 . 50 to see this turkey in the big screen made us smile thinking how clever we were . " Monster-in-Law " , directed by Robert Luketic , based on the screen play by Anya Kochoff , is a formula movie that one has seen again and again . This is a film that doesn't brake new ground . The only attraction was Jane Fonda in her return to movies in quite a while . Alas , Ms . Fonda would have done much better by refusing whatever was offered to her and stayed in one of her mansions raising money for her causes instead of being reduced to being a caricature . The best , and only , reason for even wanting to take a look at this movie is the presence of Wanda Sykes , who steals the picture from all the stars to make it her own . As the no-nonsense assistant , Ms . Sykes is a delight to watch and the only one showing some wit in the movie . While the film is by no means horrible , one can think of other ways to be entertained .
Love and Coca-Cola	Having admired some of Catherine Breillat's films , and not ever having seen this movie , we decided to watch the DVD . The transfer to this format has a washed out look , and not having seen the original copy , we can't determine whether it was done on purpose , or just that it was a bad process that was used . In any case , it appears not many people have seen this movie at all . I doubt if it was released commercially in this country . The beginning of the film says it all . Since we already know what happened , our interest is somehow dampened by what one realizes will follow . The only shocking thing going for the film is the romance between Frederique , a woman in her late thirties and Christophe , a much younger man . That said , the film is too talky for its own good . Ms . Breillat fills the movie with interminable scenes where Frederique and Christophe are seen in bed talking and drinking Coke . The other issue is Christophe's sexual duality , something that Philippe , his bad-mouthed friend has no problems explaining his sexual escapades to a would be shocked Frederique , who is in fact bored with the whole thing . To say the couple's relationship is ruined by jealousy and recriminations is to make it better than what it really is . The best thing in the film is Isabelle Renauld , who plays Frederique with great conviction . Her character , an eye specialist , seems to be completely the opposite of the man she falls for , yet who can deny that it happens in real life ? Francis Renaud is Christophe , who is at times lovable , and irritating . Alain Soral is seen as Philippe . After watching this moody film , the viewer might wonder what made him watch it in the first place .
Meet you at Trafalgar Square at 4pm	Marc Munden's " Miranda " is a film that shows great visual style . As written for the screen by Rob Young , this movie's fate seems to have been a limited release and then directly to video . Not having seen it before , we watched it on cable recently . While this film offers a lot , most viewers seem to react against it , judging by the comments sent to this forum . Christina Ricci , as the mysterious Miranda is perfectly intense . Ms . Ricci deserves much better . Her character is not clear enough for most people to care for her . The excellent John Simm , is Frank , the young librarian in love with this flighty woman who decides to stick to her and ultimately make her love him . Kyle MacLachlan , makes an appearance as Nailor , the man behind all the plot , and John Hurt , makes a perfect Christian .
The Pigly Wigly girl	Even before the film started , one realizes where this film is going , so without any expectations , and nothing else good showing at the time this movie came on , we decided to take a chance . The film has some mildly funny moments . As directed by Robert Luketic , the movie shows no surprises , but it's amusing for a laugh , or two . The premise is ridiculous , at best . In fact , the movie makers have taken pains to present the people of West Virginia in a dignified way , contrary to what some comments here indicate . In fact , the cashier , Rosalee , has a lot going for her . The premise is completely false , but again , this is an attempt to make a romantic comedy . Rosalee finds out in the worst way , there's no place like home and real love is the one Pete feels for her . After all , he really knows what makes Rosalee tick , contrary to Tad Hamilton , the Hollywood " hunk " , who is only playing a role , which proves to be the case when his agents come calling him for the new picture where he will be the star . Kate Bosworth , as Rosalee , has some good moments . Topher Grace , who is a good actor , plays second fiddle to Josh Duhamel , the star of movies who thinks he might be in love . Nathan Lane and Sean Hayes have some funny moments too . This is a film that will seem better when the viewer realizes what it is , pure escape , formula entertainment , and sits back , relaxes and have a few laughs while watching it .
The hot dog stand in the park	Kari Skogland's " Liberty Stands Still " kept reminding us of a similar film , Joel Schumacher's " Phone Booth " . The clue for understanding what the director's message seems to be , is seen in the opening credits . We are shown part of the US Constitution . Ms . Skogland is preparing us for what will follow . The only thing that doesn't make the film as suspenseful , as it could be , is the fact we know from the start who is behind the power rifle in a building overlooking the square where much of the action will take place . We don't believe , for one second , that Joe , could have prepared this caper that has placed two exploding devices in the theater , as well as in the hot dog stand . Wesley Snipes is only seen in closeups . The other thing that doesn't make sense is to watch a cool Liberty Wallace , a woman who can die at any moment if Joe decides to put a bullet right smack in the red spot over her heart . The way Ms . Fiorentino plays this woman doesn't seem to add anything to the tense situation Ms . Skogland has prepared for us to see . It's clear to see why this film went to video without showing in theaters , or if it did , it might have lasted a week , the most . As a video , or in cable , one is willing to take the chance . The film is not horrible , by any means , it shows a director who will do better in the future .
The dog star of the 70s	Every decade , or so it seems , Hollywood likes to build films around a cute dog . The early seventies was the era for " Benji " , whose real name was Higgins , an attractive and photogenic dog that had already had a recurring role in " Petticoat Junction " , the successful sitcom of the sixties . Edgar Buchanan , one of the stars from that show is on hand to act with an old pal again . Joe Camp , the director and screen writer , targeted this film toward a young audience of children under ten . Higgins and his trainer , Frank Inn , do wonders for the film . " Benji " shows a dog that has a natural intelligence and responds well to whatever it was asked to do . The film will delight young children . Some other faces in the movie are Frances Bavier , Deborah Walley , Patsy Garrett and others . Although the movie is predictable , let's not forget it was targeted for a young audience that will probably appreciate it more than the grown ups .
A woman of independent means	What does a recent widow of a certain age do for amusement in the England of the 1930s ? She buys a theater . And what kind of entertainment does this widow decide to give to the London public ? The type that they didn't get in other venues . That is the premise of this film directed by Stephen Frears that clearly shows it was a vehicle tailor made for a great dame of the English stage and cinema , Judi Dench , who clearly dominates with her presence all we see in this formulaic picture based on a real story . The Windmill Theater in London never closed its doors during the worst of the bombing it suffered . It must have been quite a feat for the real Mrs . Henderson and her manager , Vivian Van Damm , to keep presenting day after day the kind of variety shows the public loved . The skits at the Windmill showed a lot of naked skin by the way of the beautiful young women whose job was to stand in the background and have their bodies shown in an artistic way in order to avoid the censure of the office of Lord Chamberlain . Mrs . Henderson had the good fortune of engaging a manager of the caliber of Vivian Van Damm . He was the genius behind all the revues that played at the Windmill because his vision and knowing well what the public wanted to see . Later on , as England entered the war , the theater became a refuge for the young men that were in the city on leave before going , or returning to the front lines . Judi Dench portrays Laura Henderson with her accustomed style in a fun , although predictable performance . She has some good moments . Bob Hoskins , playing Mr . Van Damm is also good playing opposite of Ms . Dench . Thelma Barlow appears as Mrs . Henderson's friend and confidant as the delicious Lady Conway and Christopher Guest is perfect as the Lord Chamberlain . Stephen Frears direction doesn't bring anything to the film that has a feeling as something one has seen before . While the film doesn't break any new ground , it still is fun because of the great Judi Dench doing what she does best .
Darkness in Massachusetts .	This film directed by Brad Silberling is based on a true story . I would imagine that Joe Nast is based on Mr . Silberling himself . The only thing he should thank his lucky stars is that he never ' inherited ' the Flosses as his in-laws . These two are beyond belief . Granted , no one grieves the same , but the mother , as played by Susan Sarandon , takes the cake in showing no feeling whatsoever throughout the film . How about the father ? . He is so consumed in the real estate deal that finally goes astray that obviously he doesn't have a moment to reflect on his terrible loss . Are these people Jewish ? The act as though they're in the wrong film . It appeared to me they were confused and thought they had been cast in a remake of Ordinary People . Ms . Sarandon makes Mary Tyler Moore's role in the latter film appears almost human . The biggest problem I encountered here is the boyfriend . He is totally dishonest by not coming up clean to the people that obviously , still thought their daughter was going to marry this loser . I have admired Jake Gyllenhaal in other roles , but in this film , maybe because of the direction , he doesn't strike the right tone . The film left me completely cold . I had no feeling toward what's presented on screen , contrary to what others have said in this forum .
Love it , or hate it !	Went to see Joel Schumacher's film version of " The Phantom of the Opera " out of curiosity and because everything else playing in the Loew's cineplex was sold out . This was the only available film that we hadn't seen . The theater was about less than half full , which speaks volumes for a movie based on the Broadway hit that's been playing forever , so it seems . First of all , Joel Schumacher bears all responsibility as to why this movie is adored by consumed fans , and hated with a passion by the ones that are turned off by it . Sure , he has delivered a product that will charm and delight , but there are things that with another director , someone with more experience with musical films , this Phantom would have fared much better . There is an excess of everything . We are taken back to the Paris of the late XIX century , to the Opera Populaire , and its demise . It's a story of rags to riches , at best , as we see how a young , and inexperienced chorus singer makes a surprising appearance in an " opera " ? that the great diva of the time , Carlota , having been injured , can't sing . From there we are transported , as if by magic to the subterranean world of the Phantom , who is madly in love with the young Christine . Those scenes are about as good as this movie will get . The sexy Phantom is an opera composer , we learn . Without knowing what's wrong with this man , Christine would have been crazy not to take advantage of getting ' cozy ' with the Phantom , he is such a hunk and it's clear he adores her . The thing I found annoying with the movie was the music of Andrew LLoyd Webber . Instead of having a dialog mixed with songs that are sung at the appropriate moment to convey the mood , the creators have insisted in have only songs . That's when this film loses its appeal , as the songs all sound the same ! There are basically only a few songs that are repeated throughout the film . The lip synching is a problem that none of the actors have mastered . It must be extremely difficult to match the recorded voice with the moment it's done in front of the not too forgiving camera that captures every wrong movement . All the actors make an excellent contribution . Gerard Butler cuts a sexy figure and his Phantom comes alive . His final scenes show he has the range and he can act . Emmy Rossum is a beautiful and sweet Christine , the girl courted by Raoul but desired by the Phantom . Patrick Wilson is good as Raoul , and Miranda Richardson , as always , makes a compelling Mme . Giry . Love this film , or hate it ! You'll be the judge .
Ed Browne goes to Washington	Dudley Nichols , the director of " Government Girl " , working with Budd Schulberg on the script , gave us this look of America during the years of WWII . This is a move of how every department in Washington was taken over by thousands of women who descended on the capital to help with the war effort . The housing problem of the times is clearly shown as we watch the opening sequence when Ed Browne arrives in Washington without a reservation for a hotel . Because his name is in the newspaper , he is given the honeymoon suite that young Sgt . Blake and May , were going to use for that purpose . Smokey Allard comes to the rescue as she tries to give the couple a place where they can be together , but makes the mistake of taking them into the " only women " rooming house where she and May share a tiny apartment . This comedy shows us a slice of life in Washington in those years . Even though there was a war going on , there is always optimism , as that conflict was a just one , in the minds of all Americans of that era . We are shown how Ed Browne is instrumental in setting up the factories that will produce the bombers that were key in winning the war in Europe and in the Pacific . Olivia de Havilland makes a sunny " Smokey " Allard . Even when playing roles that didn't demand much of her acting abilities , this actress makes us like her because of the charisma she projected . Sunny Tufts is good as this unsophisticated Ed Browne who is mired in the bureaucracy he encounters in Washington . Ann Shirley , James Dunn , Paul Stewart , and Agnes Moorehead complete the excellent cast . While the movie doesn't break new ground , it's pleasant enough for a few laughs and a nostalgic look at that period .
Green Tattoo	Brett Ratner's interpretation of this story is very bland . When are the Hollywood wheelers and dealers going to wake up and start making films that are original ? This trend to remake things that were better made before has to stop . It's such a waste of energy and money . No wonder , with the inflated prices of stars salaries these days , everyone resorts to the easy thing . I certainly hope that Anthony Hopkins go back to his quality films . If he would take a glance at The Good Father now , he would be horrified to see how low he has fallen in hamming it up on the big screen . Some of the things in this film don't make sense , even though the actors try very hard to do a great job . The story , at times , is very confusing . I wonder if it was done that way intentionally , or was it just a few of us that thought so . The cast is excellent . Anything with Edward Norton in it , can't be that bad . He is an intelligent actor who never gives a bad performance . Ralph Finnes is very effective also . The character he plays is a total enigma . We never really know what made him become the monster . Of course , we have all the impression his own unhappy home life turned him into the man he turned out to be . With that said , one wishes to have seen Phillip Seymour Hoffman more time on screen . He's always interesting to watch , but he has a nothing part here , made even shorter , no doubt , being in the wrong film . Also Harvey Keitel and Emily Watson don't have much to do , which is a shame . Enough of Hannibal already ! Please give us another type of creek we could love !
Tin Pan Alley men	It's hard to believe Michael Curtiz directed this film . Mr . Curtiz , one of the most distinguished directors of the American cinema , doesn't bring anything new to this tired 20th Century Fox movie . Maybe the three men at the center of the movie , the great song writing team of De Sylva , Brown and Henderson were too bland to merit a film that celebrated their lives . They made their mark in the theater in the early part of the 20th century , but as it plays on the screen , this musical feels dull and out of place . Some of the trio's best songs are heard in the movie . Songs like Birth of the Blues , which Gordon MacRae sings with panache . Also they wrote that sappy Al Jolson's standard , Sunny Boy , which is sung by the star in black face . Perhaps the casting was the wrong choice for this movie . Gordon MacRae doesn't show any spark as Buddy DeSylva . Dan Dailey is also an enigma , the way he plays Ray Henderson . Ernest Borgnine is the only one that shows some life in his interpretation of Lew Brown . Sheree North is the good Kitty Kane , who played in most of the shows this trio wrote .
School days	This film from director Manuel Rios San Martin , working on his own material was a pleasant surprise . At least the movie is entertaining enough and devoid of all the heavy left wing politics so prevalent in most Spanish films . This is a look at a group of friends who went to the same school together . At the beginning of the film something tragic happens that will change the relationship among friends . Later , the film follows the lives of Valle and Quimi who have been sweethearts in school and now have grown apart . The acting is good , in general . Eva Santolaria plays Valle , a gorgeous girl with a lot of ambition . Antonio Hortelano is Quimi , the man that loves Valle and will do anything for her . Also in the cast Fernando Guillen Cuervo playing a creepy art dealer and night club operator who wants Valle for himself . Sancho Gracia is Sandro the drug lord who is also after Valle's charms . Watching the film on cable the only complaint is the erratic soundtrack that makes some intimate conversations at crucial moments almost inaudible .
Alms for the church collection . . .	In this sequel we are treated to another display of brilliant special effects , but as someone has already opined in this forum , if one is looking for a great plot , alas , someone has to go somewhere else because the screen play is not exactly the best thing this film has . Director Richard Franklin brings back Rolly and Leo to do the things they did in the first film with such great fun . Bryan Brown and Brian Dennehy still have a great rapport playing together . This is a pair made in heaven and one wished they would team up again . There are a few things in the movie that make it watchable and the special effects are cleverly executed . The final chase sequence is a lot of fun to watch , as it is the final twist as the treasure is reunited with its proper owner .
The head hunter	Kristoffer Tabori's " Pursued " , suffers from the screen play written by Maggie April . Mr . Tabori , an excellent actor , who has turned his attention to directing , seems to be out of his element with this movie . Thrillers that are based on revolutionary technology don't seem to translate well to the screen , as it's the case with " Pursued " . In fact , Mr . Tabori gets an over the top performance from Christian Slater , as the evil Vincent Palmer , who like all villains , seems to be miles ahead of everyone else in the story . On the other hand , Gil Bellows , who is the victim of Palmer , seems to be completely impotent to do anything , or even go to the police with the troubles he is facing . The problem seems to be exacerbated by Mr . Bellows ' take on the character , as he makes him even weaker . The result is an uneven film , that showed possibilities , but in the end , doesn't fulfill them . For a film that deals in cutting edge technology , one would think that Ben Keats , the genius behind the new program that will revolutionize cyberspace tracking , would have been aware of the spies out there , especially the scumbag that is making his life impossible , and invested in the best anti-spy software money could buy . The only point the film makes is how prevalent industrial spying is in the hands of people like the repulsive Vincent Palmer .
Big Chill in Maine	Watching this film convinced me we should leave dealing with aliens to people that might be able to present them in a better ' light ' . Hello , calling Mr . Spielberg . . . . . . If we consider the talent involved in this film and what comes out on screen , supposedly adapted from the Stephen King novel , it is a big disappointment . Mr . Kasdan , the director , and Mr . Goldman , the screen writer , have given us better things , so this venture will not harm their achievements . Some parts of the film are quite enjoyable . It is entertaining , if we forget the silliness of Morgan Freeman's bushy eyebrows , ( I wonder whose idea that was ? ) and Jonesy affecting the English accent of his alter ego . The trouble I had with this film is that it doesn't want to make up its mind whether to play it straight , or go for laughs , since nothing is made clear throughout the length of it .
Stella	David Bailey , a well known photographer , tried his hand at directing by turning Brooke Leimas ' novel , which we read some time ago , into a mystery film . The screen play is by Jamie Brown , and it appears his adaptation is the basic flaw with the finished product . We are given a premise that has been used before with better results . The second wife who comes to live in an unhappy place where the ghost of a dead woman comes back to haunt the new wife and make her life impossible . After all , even from a grave , don't play with a woman's sense of possession , she will come back to haunt whoever dares . Stella , who is only seen by Catherine , a French young woman who has married Nick , a composer of music for the movies . Everything seems to go bad when strange things are happening in the couple's apartment . It doesn't help that most of Catherine's new friends seem to be in some sort of conspiracy of silence and will not tell her anything about the past and what kind of marriage Stella and Nick had together . Charlotte Gainsbourg is an actress that deserves better . Her Catherine shows some good moments , but like everyone else , she is bogged down by a scenario that doesn't make much sense . Natassja Kinski , plays the enigmatic neighbor that seems to know what is behind the things Catherine seems to be experiencing , but doesn't tell her . The rest of the cast don't have much to do .
Peeping Tom	Some say that imitation is the best form of flattery . This seems to be the case with Italian director Dario Argento . He is a man that loves to shock with his stories of blood and gore in a genre known as giallo in Italy . Alas , " Ti piace Hitchcock " his 2005 made for television film doesn't quite live up to his previous work , although it is not a horrible movie . Argento sets his film in a Torino neighborhood where Giulio , a young student of cinema , and with a what appears to be an unlimited amount of time in his hands , loves to spy his neighbors from his window . He discovers Sasha , a young woman who is always fighting with her mother about money . Giulio , who loves to watch old films in DVD format , meets Sasha at the neighborhood store where she is about to rent " Strangers on a Train " , one of Hitchcock's best films . Federica , a beautiful blonde , has the same idea in mind as she is about to grab the only copy in the store . Giulio realizes there is more than really meets the eye between what appears to be a casual encounter . There are references of Hitchcock's work throughout the story , like when Giulio is taking the shower , which reminds us of " Psycho " , which is also prominently displayed at the video store . When Sasha's mother is victim of foul play , Giulio decides to investigate , putting himself in harm's way . Eventually , he is also a target for knowing too much , or perhaps because he gives that impression . Other references to Hitchcock include a " Rear Window " sequence , as well as another one to " Vertigo " . The film is entertaining , although the dubbed version we watched on a cable channel was badly dubbed , which was distracting . One can hope Mr . Argento has more blood in mind on his next venture .
Size matters	In our society , being different can be a terrible experience , specially for a youngster who should be enjoying that stage of her life . Being overweight carries a stigma for insecure people . The cruelty of their peers can be devastating for a young person who finds rejection every way she turns . Take Maggie , a girl being raised by her working mother . Because of her size , she is made the butt of all jokes at the high school she attends . To make matters worse , as a prank , she is entered as a candidate for the Prom Queen , something that , as a rule , is reserved for those popular and cute girls whose popularity among the student body assures them of the title . Maggie proves to be an excellent contestant who proves that no matter what size she wears , she still a winner . The film wouldn't be half the fun it is had Nikki Blonsky not being cast as Maggie . As she had shown in " Hairspray " , Ms . Blonsky is a talented actress that one hopes will keep on being cast in movies that rely on her bubbly personality to carry the picture . Annie Potts , who we haven't seen in a while , shows up as Nikki's overworked mother . Peter Levin directed with style giving the viewer a nice excuse to watch " Queen Sized " .
A weird mind	Watching this film , I couldn't help recalling another one , " A Beautiful Mind " , the story of another troubled soul that parallels , in a way , the life of the main character of this one : Chuck Barris . It's a big stretch of the imagination to imagine the real Barris as a CIA operative , let alone , someone worth of a biopic with a screen play by Charlie Kaufman and an interesting directorial debut by George Clooney . What Mr . Kaufman seems to be doing is trying to make sense of a life that otherwise would not merit a minute of screen time . The acting is excellent . The biggest surprise was Julia Roberts , who shows a range we haven't seen in her many forgettable movies . In the film she makes her character come alive . Also , Drew Barrymore is quite good as the girl who loves Barris unconditionally . Of course , the film belongs to Sam Rockwell , an extraordinary actor who does great work with the material he is given . Mr . Rockwell is an interesting actor to watch . Also good , the director , George Clooney , who as the recruiter , gives a mysterious reading on the man who has enough power to get rid of enemies through his manipulation of weak individuals . This film is will infuriate and bore viewers since the narrative is quite uneven . Also , it will elate fans of Charlie Kaufman , who keeps getting better and better as he keeps climbing to the top of his profession .
Green grass	Not having a clue about " Daltry Calhoun " , we decided to give it a try . We like to discover " indies " that might have a different viewpoint , away from the commercial films coming from Hollywood . The idea behind the film was the director's own appreciation for Southern culture . Inexperience might have gotten in the way , as Katrina Holden Bronson , the director , seems to have her heart in the right place , but the screen play she wrote is full of chiches about the same quirky characters she is trying to bring to life in her film . The best thing in the film is Sophie Traub , a delightful newcomer , as far as this viewer is concerned , who steals the film from the other , more established actors . Ms . Traub plays June , a girl that having grown up without a father , in her environment , turns out quite balanced and with a maturity way beyond her young age . June , who has taken an interest in Doyle Earl , a big lug of a guy who is illiterate , shows her good nature by teaching this man how to read and deal with what life has given him . Sophie Traub is a young actress on her way to bigger and better things , no doubt . The basic problem with the film is the Daltry Calhoun of Johnny Knoxville . For a man that has made it big in the grass business , he acts as though he is pained to see how far he went with his limited intelligence and resources . The business that started good , suddenly hits a snag as the grass begins producing strange growths . When May reappears in his life , he just doesn't know how to deal with the situation as he reacquaints with June and her mother . Elizabeth Banks , who is usually an excellent presence in anything she appears , is bogged down by her May , a woman who is suffering an unknown disease and has brought June back to her father . Juliette Lewis has some good moments as Flora , the store owner who loves Daltry , and finds June a good cause to get involved with . David Koechner makes an impression as the somewhat retarded older Doyle Earl . " Datry Calhoun " is not a total loss and one wishes Ms . Bronson something better for her next time behind the camera .
Suntanned and unhappy	The Spanish film committee that chose this film over Pedro Almodovar's " Talk to her " to represent that country in the best foreign film at the Oscars , made a terrible a blunder . The rest is history : Hollywood preferred to honor the wronged man , and no one ever heard about this movie . It didn't get a commercial run in the United States , as far as I'm concerned , because it is a film that outside Spain has no great appeal . This film reminded me of a day at " Cheers " , the Boston bar where the TV series took place , but without one iota of humor . The atmosphere is so bleak that it depresses the viewer as this heavy tale the director , together with his screen writer , decides to present us about unemployment in Northern Spain . There is such a gloom in this film as in no other film in recent memory . A lighter tone would have greatly improved this static film . The film , as directed by Fernando Leon , shows not a ray of hope for these idled workers who spend their days at the bar where they are able to get drinks on credit while they wait for better days . This bunch prefer to stay in a state of limbo rather than going away from the area where unemployment is rampant . They all complain how about the Koreans are making better and cheaper ships while having their drinks and seeing the world passing them by without even the least amount of worry about what tomorrow would bring . On top of that , the film feels false from beginning to end . Javier Bardem , with his rugged face , is the leader of this pack . His Santa is a man with a lot of pain and resentment , yet he prefers to bask in the sun rather than going to work and stop feeling sorry for himself . Luis Tosar is Jose who has his own demons to deal with . He is a coward who feels threatened by a wife who has her feet on the ground . Jose Angel Egido and Nieve de Medina are good in their roles . This movie is a painful reminder of what is wrong with the film industry in Spain , as well as other European countries that had seen better times . Everyone is ready to denounce Hollywood and the American film industry as the culprit for their decline . But just think about planning a Saturday night dinner and going to the movies for a relaxing time , if the selection was " Monday in the Sun " , please prepare the Alka-Seltzer for the indigestion afterward ! We hope director Leon lightens up for his next opus .
I spy	Jean Negulesco's " The Conspirators " sounded intriguing when the trailer was shown at TCM . It appeared as though it was well worth a look because of the cast alone . Well , it was a big disappointment ! The story is convoluted , it is hardly plausible what the hero , Vincent , is able to pull , let alone , be allowed to enter Lisbon , at the crucial time when he arrives . The character of Irene remains an enigma throughout the film and finally , there is not enough to make this movie enjoyable . Paul Henried was a lucky man being in Hollywood while a lot of the American stars were away fighting in WWII . In this film he tries , but there's something about his Vincent that doesn't quite make it . Hedy Lamarr's presence in the movie is pretext to present her in different costumes . Henreid and Lamarr had not enough chemistry to make the film , at least , a nice love story . Sydney Greenstreet and Peter Lorre are completely wasted and the rest of the players were not interesting enough to keep the viewer's attention at all times . Instead , one feels bored by the proceedings . At least Vincent and Irene , by the magic of the movies , will always have Lisbon !
Fox hunting	Richard Shepard's " The Hunting Party " is supposedly based on an Esquire magazine article . Scott Anderson's account about the encounter of journalists a few years after the war in Bosnia ended , is the basis of this film that for some reason , doesn't quite get the viewer's attention , perhaps because of the subject matter which never elicited a lot of sympathy from the American public . After all , this was an unpopular war with a recent happy conclusion when the real " Fox " from the movie , or Radovan Karadzic , was captured not too long ago . The story is a bit far fetched , but we went along for the ride having no preconceived ideas . What seemed to be an adventure film , doesn't hold our attention , perhaps because the story has been done before , much better , one must add . The main character , Simon Hunt , is a man with an agenda . He has seen the horrors of the fighting first hand . He is made a victim of the struggle when he lost the woman he loved by the Fox , when he comes to late to do anything to prevent her tragic death . Together with his old camera man and the son of a vice-president of the network which he worked for , he sets out to capture the fugitive guy , acting on his own theory to get the Fox and getting the million dollars being offered for his capture . Richard Gere's Simon is an unlikely hero , as the washed up correspondent that did the ultimate sin while on camera , something his former network didn't take too kindly . Now , unemployed , he has to free lance in that part of the world that saw violence during the war . Terrence Howard , who is one of the best actors of his generation , has not much to do . In a way , he feels compelled to help Simon because of the remorse he feels . Best of all is Jesse Eisenberg , who turns out as a surprise at the end . Mr . Shepard , who wrote the screenplay as well , proves he is not as successful as he was with " The Matador " . One wishes him well with any new projects .
Comic book relief	" The Punisher " which surprisingly didn't last too long in its original release , was shown recently on cable . Not having seen it , we decided to take a chance . We had no idea about what to expect , the film is typical of the comic book genre . We find a hero that seems to be made of rubber because he can take whatever punishment is thrown at him and come out of it much better than before . Jonathan Hensleigh directed the film . Frank Castle , the former FBI man , is the target of Howard Saint , who has a vendetta because of the death of one of his sons at the hands of Castle . Saint , a nasty character , goaded by his wife , orders the elimination of Castle and his whole family . The occasion presents itself when Castle is having a family reunion in Puerto Rico . Saint's men track them down and eliminate everyone in the family , but of course , little do they know that Castle , who seems to have more lives than a cat , survives . The rest of the film is predictable and it relies totally on special effects to make up for a lack of ideas . The film is full of clichs , as we have seen all of this before . The main problem with the film is Thomas Jane , who as Castle , plays the role with a stone face that never changes after the loss of his family . John Travolta plays the bad Howard Saint . Will Patton has some great moments as Saint's right hand man .
A message from the past	Sometimes the adaptation of a best selling novel gets the right treatment for the screen , something that is not easy to do . " Message in a Bottle " , directed by Luis Mandoki , and with a plausible screenplay by Gerald DiPego , achieve the almost impossible in films of this genre , a credible story that , like in real life , doesn't turn out to be what one would might expect whenever Hollywood tackles projects such as translating this Nicholas Sparks novel for the movies . The best thing going for the film is the excellent cast that was put together for it . Robin Wright Penn is an amazing actress who goes from one appearance to the next lending her beautiful aura to whatever she is asked to play . She is an intelligent performer who gives her character , Theresa Osborne credibility and class . An inspired Kevin Costner is seen as Garrett Blake , the man who has suffered the loss of his beloved Catherine and having sent her a message in a bottle , can't believe the secret that Theresa has uncovered . The great Paul Newman , in one of his last roles , plays Garrett's father with his usual flair . It was always a pleasure to find this man in anything in the big screen . He clearly shows why he was simply one of the best players of his generation , bar none . He had the quality of saying so much with a minimum of gestures . It is almost as though he is not even acting because he is that man at that moment of his character's life . Even though he is no longer among us , he will live forever thanks to the medium in which he excelled .
The windmills of my mind	The original Thomas Crown Affair directed by Norman Jewison was praised in its day as stylish and ahead of its times . On a second view , this is far from the truth . The film is a pretext to show Faye Dunaway in about 30 costume changes and little else of substance . Steve McQueen was a strange bird indeed . As an actor he is always the same . Watch him in this film , or Bullit , or any other of his movies , and you'll see him do the same expressions and pretending to be cool all the time , something that in real life , he was not . Steve McQueen was the product of Hollywood . He was more of a presence than a convincing actor who can make the viewer believe he is seeing that character he is portraying come true . On the other hand , Faye Dunaway went from modeling to acting , and she could act , but not in the way the director instructed her what to do in this film . Faye Dunaway is a beautiful woman who at that point in her career cut quite a figure . Unfortunately , her Vicki Anderson is all phony and mannered . Even the title song is sung badly within the movie . Michel Legrand needed someone else to sing it to do justice to it . Frankly , this film would have died at the box office if it were released today !
Paul Auster directs	Some authors , as is the case with Paul Auster , can involve a reader with a novel . Mr . Auster , with a few exceptions , has produced a body of work that will be his legacy . Alas , this is not going to be the case of his directorial career . Like Julian Schnabel , a painter turned film director , Paul Auster seems to be a logical candidate for bringing his stories to the screen , but as proved by this effort , one hopes he keeps his day time job . The large , talented cast of " Lulu on the Bridge " can't overcome some of the problems the film presents . The mixture of a thriller with esoterica sounds like an intriguing idea for a film , but as one witness the movie unfolds it's clear these elements don't mix well together under the director's guidance with the screen play he wrote . The film has moments in which it transcends and shows a promise of working , but in the end , it's too contrived for its own good . Even an intense performer like Harvey Keitel is bogged down by a character that doesn't awake much interest in the viewer . Mira Sorvino is , in our humble opinion , terribly miscast . There is no chemistry between the two main characters . William Dafoe , Victor Argo , Vanessa Redgrave , Lou Reed , Gina Gershon are seen in minor roles .
Coming home	Some films are meant to be seen again and again . Alas , this is not the case with " Some Came Running " . The film has a sadly dated look now and all its faults are painfully evident . Vincente Minnelli , a man who distinguished himself in light comedies and musicals , appears to be out of his league here . He is not helped by the adaptation John Patrick and Arthur Sheekman wrote of the James Jones novel . This film is first , and foremost a glorified soap opera , based on a best seller . Frank Sinatra appears to be completely wrong for the part of David Hirsh , a role that has " Paul Newman " written all over it . Shirley MacLaine , who scored a big success with her Ginny Moorhead is fun to watch , especially in the scene in Terre Haute where she sings off key in front of the band . The third member of the Rat Pack , Dean Martin , makes the best out of Bama Dillbert . The others in the cast are fine , especially Arthur Kennedy , one of the best actors of that time plays Frank Hirsh , the man that has married into wealth and is now a pillar of the community . Martha Hyer is Gwen , the girl who is too straight laced to compete with the vulgar Ginny . " Some Came Running " needed some editing because at 137 minutes , it's too long .
The coach	Barry , a supervisor in a brick factory in Johanesburg , is a man that wants to train some of his workers for the grueling Comrade marathon . His superior comes to him early in the story to tell him he is replacing him with a younger , more capable black man . Barry , who is of retirement age , doesn't take the news kindly because it will separate him from the four athletes he is training and feels they will not have the discipline he demands of them . One day Barry discovers a young woman running . She is Christine , who shows all the characteristics to make an excellent long distance runner and who will do well at the Comrade . Barry takes her under his wing and even brings her to his suburban home , something that is not looked kindly by the white neighbors who object of the intrusion . Barry's demands and how he deals with the training of Christine makes the young woman leave him . She needs a job and has to find her own way in the world . As the marathon day comes close , Christine and Barry are reunited , but on her terms . Christine goes to win the race as the first South African black woman to do so . Jean Stewart's film doesn't seem to make up its mind where to go . It's not realistic the way he approaches the way he sets his story . One goes along , because it's a predictable feel good movie , where we know before hand how will it end . Armin Mueller Stahl is good as Barry , the man who has tried for the Comrade himself , and failed . Nthati Moshesh is appealing as Christine , a dark beauty who makes a valuable contribution to the film .
Meet the parents	Imagine the cruelty of adoptive parents to tell an unsuspecting son that he is adopted ? To make matters worse , the Claytons , a rich couple , have waited a long time to spring the news to Richard , who is about to get married ! This is the premise for this comedy created by Greg Glienna , who also contributed to its screen play . The film , which went directly to video , never had a chance to make it commercially , in spite of the prominent figures in the cast . In fact , the film seems to this viewer as a variation of the more successful " Meet the Parents " , which employed Mr . Glienna as a writer . Not that this film is horrible , by any means , but it appears the powers that be must have had doubts about its impact and sent it to the DVD limbo . Ron Livingston , who is seen as Richard , the man who is told he has been living a lie , is quite good and shows a flair for comedy . Neve Campbell is also effective in playing the object of Richard's love . The combination of the vulgar Meneres as played broadly by Danny Devito and Kathy Bates have some good moments . Christine Baranski and Edward Herrmann play the Claytons , the uptight adoptive parents . The one that is hardly recognizable is Beverly D'Angelo , who must have gone through a procedure to change the way we remembered her .
All that jazz	Robert Altman , perhaps one of the most innovative directors , working in Hollywood pays homage to his home town : Kansas City . Mr . Altman recreates a long gone era that he probably didn't know that well , being only a child at the time the action takes place . It seems as though the allure of the period made a vivid mark in the director's mind , as he takes us , with this film , for a long over due visit . Make no mistake , this is not another " Nashville " , quite the contrary . The only similarity is the title that reflects a city name . As written by the director and Frank Barhydt , the film succeeds in creating the atmosphere , but as far as the story line goes , it has the quality to disorient , even the most avid of Mr . Altman's fans . What Kansas City lacks in story line , it makes up with the glorious music that serves as compensation with the thinness of the material one sees on the screen . The music is the best excuse to watch the movie that showcases an excellent group of musicians playing heavenly in between the action . Mr . Altman's choice of Jennifer Jason Leigh as Blondie , is probably what's wrong with the film . This actress mumbles her lines , plays Blondie as strident woman and manages to derail the film . On the other hand , Miranda Richardson's Carolyn Stilton gives her one of the best roles in her career . Ms . Richardson appears to be on a cloud most of the time because of her opium addiction . She makes us care for her portrayal of this society woman that needs all the help she can get . Having it all , she can't cope with being married to a cold man that couldn't care less about her . Where other lonely wives resort to drinking , Mrs . Stilton gets away from it all with drugs . Harry Belafonte plays the local gangster in charge of illegal gambling that evidently was prevalent in the city . His Seldom Seen character is at times inaudible by the way he throws his lines . Sometimes we have to strain our ears in order to hear what he is saying . Mr . Belafonte is a fine actor . As far as Dermot Mulroney and Steve Buscemi are concerned , they have not much to play in the movie to make us care for them . The supporting roles are good . In spite of this movie not being one of Robert Altman's best , it presents a fine opportunity to absorb the atmosphere and the music of the era , oh , and all that jazz !
Bostonians and Californians	One has to wonder how did Henry James novel " The Bostonians " inspired Jonathan Parker into re-telling it using themes of ecology , greed and love in the Californian landscape of Marin County . The basic problem with the film is that it throws a lot of ideas around , but eventually none of them come to be realized . The idea that a young woman , Zoe , the daughter of progressive parents that are into the environment and that falls for the greedy developer , Gavin , is something that doesn't pan well . The same goes for Olive , the sister of Gavin who is opposed to all his big plans to create a gated community where multi-million dollar homes are going to built . The only interesting thing in the film is the cast that Mr . Parker attracted . Noah Wyle , Ileana Douglas , Kate Mora , Joanne Whalley , Keith Carradine , Cloris Leachman , and Valerie Perrine , are among the players of this satirical film that doesn't live to its premise .
Ode to friendship	We watch as a batch of caramel is being made as the movie starts . This confection is not exactly to complete a dessert , as we get to know , the confection is used in a beauty salon in Beirut where it helps the beauticians eliminate unwanted body hair . The lives of women that operate the salon are examined , including a couple of their friends who bond together the way only women can . Despite their shortcomings , Layale , Nisrine , Rima , Jamale and Rose , will be friends no matter what fate has in store for them . " Caramel " as it is known in English , is a charming film by Nadine Labaki , who is seen in the key role of Layale . Ms . Labaki knows these women and what their lives are like . She is generous and sympathetic to all the women in the movie . With all their complexities , the women are supportive of the others and there is never any jealousy , or ill feeling toward anyone in the group . Although the film is targeted to Lebanese women , it feels universal in its message of solidarity and love . One can expect good things from Ms . Labaki in future ventures .
Diary of an angry housewife	Certain films like " The Upside of Anger " resonate with IMDb contributors . In fact , the only reason we watched it was because of a kind friend's insistence in lending us a copy of the DVD . Mike Binder's film is not one of the worst things around , but if one really examines the basic premise about the head of the family's disappearance and never contacting his family in three years , it is just absurd . What could have been so bad between Terry and her husband ? True , he might have found another woman in his work place , which usually is the case , but to go away without ever contacting , at least , his daughters , doesn't make a bit of sense . Then again , what if he might have suffered an accident , or foul play was involved , why not go to the local police ? These things are not explained in a movie that concentrates in how Terry , the wife , is left behind to drown herself in self pity and the vodka she seems to enjoy . We only see Terry getting on the phone to try to contact her former husband in Sweden , but she never completes the call . The only valid excuse for watching this film is Joan Allen . But haven't we seen her before do other angry wives ? While basically most of the comments are favorable for the film and her acting , this is a movie that doesn't deal with reality . The ending of the film proves how this family neglects to deal with it , especially Terry , who should have known better , but doesn't act on what should have been her primary concern about getting to the bottom of why the absent man leaves home without a trace . The film is a variation of those Lifetime movies based on a supposedly true stories and targeted for women . Kevin Costner , who some people have praised to the high heavens is aging badly , as shown here and in " Rumor has it " . The movie defies the laws of credulity .
Spaghetti Westerns in Almeria	Alex de la Iglesia , not one of our favorite Spanish directors , seems to have great ideas for the movies he wants to do . The execution , though , is always problematic . Having said that , " 800 balas " seems to be one of the most accessible pictures he has ever directed . Mr . de la Iglesia wanted to pay homage to that era of the sixties in which his country played host to the so called Spaghetti Western genre , which by the way , was an Italian phenomenon , not a Spanish one . The film concentrates in the figure of Julian Torralba , who brags about his friendship with the great stars that participated in the many movies shot around Almeria . Torralba tells , anyone who will listen , about the days in which Clint Eastwood came to the area to work . His friends who take part in the show they put for tourists , don't believe a word he is saying . The arrival of Torralba's grandson , a young boy from Madrid , is the event that turns around the action in that run down place where these Spanish pseudo-bandits stage their gun fights . In fact , the young boy , Carlos , brings Torralba to his senses and helps to reunite the old man with his estranged daughter Laura , who is Carlos ' mother . Sancho Gracia as Torralba has some good moments . The young Luis Castro is seen as the sweet boy searching for a grandfather he never knew . Carmen Maura , who has worked with the director before , doesn't have much to do in the film .
Lethal injection	Some criminals in death row get a dose of their own medicine while they await execution , which seems to be the case with Cindy Liggett , a woman that killed two young people a few years before . Cindy , it appears , is resigned to die . She doesn't want the idea of getting false hopes , which is what happens when a young idealistic lawyer tries to have her execution stopped because he finds flaws in her case . Unfortunately , his pleas in favor of his client go into deaf ears . Rich Hayes , a young lawyer , returns home to a job his brother John , a lawyer working in the legal system , has been able to get for him . He is assigned to the clemency department , reviewing old cases that have been tried already . The Cindy Liggett murder conviction gets his attention . It's clear , from the start , her reaction is negative . She feels she is better off dead , rather than serve life in jail . At first , Cindy clashes with Rich , but his earnestness win her over , as she begins to see some hope . Rich , for his part , steps into many toes . Worst of all , he makes a blunder by accosting the state Governor at the wrong place , at the wrong time . The Governor believes in the death sentence and is against showing clemency for a murderess like Ms . Liggett , who , as far as he is concerned , has shown no remorse in the horrible way she killed . The last moments of the film involve Cindy's preparation to die by lethal injection for the crimes she committed . It is a tense time as Rich tries to do everything possible to spare the convict of the impending death . There is a tender moment when Cindy discovers a dress Rich has bought for her to wear at her execution . Bruce Heresford has had some successes in his long film career , both in his native Australia and in America . This film will always be compared to " Dead Man Walking " , a more intense , and better film . The screen play by Ron Koslow doesn't quite make us care too much for a woman who has , apparently , not an ounce of redeeming qualities . We don't believe for one moment that the young lawyer , who also hasn't done anything worth while in his life will take the convict's case to heart like he does in the film . The best thing in " Last Dance " is Sharon Stone . She obviously wanted to be taken seriously when she agreed to do this movie . Her Cindy Liggett shows a hardened soul who awakens to realize the consequences of her actions and must pay for them . Rob Morrow , who plays Rich Hays throws away the film in the way he plays the character . We don't believe him for a moment he is this man who tries so hard to have Cindy's conviction changed to life . Randy Quaid , Peter Gallagher , Jack Thompson , and Skeet Ulrich are seen in the film . The main reason to watch " Last Dance " is Sharon Stone who shows she has the potential to do better things in her movie career .
Paintings	" Cool Blue " , a laid back film , was co-directed by Richard Shepard and Mark Mullin . The movie , which evidently went directly to video , gives us a bird's eye view on the world of a struggling artist , Dustin , who is committed to his art and to the pursuit of Christiane , the woman that has made a deep impression on him . The movie has a disorienting start as we watch Dustin and Buzz enter a convenience store and our first reaction is they are going to hold up the place , but it becomes clear , they are starving young artists instead of robbers . This 1988 film was Woody Harrelson's second credited movie . He appears as Dustin . It shows a young actor with a lot of promise at the center of the story . His best friend is played by Hank Azaria , who was also starting out . Ely Pouget is seen as the woman that awakens a passion in the young artist . Ms . Pouget should be seen in movies more often because she shows a talent for acting that seems to be natural . The most interesting aspect of the picture is the impressive cameo by Sean Penn , who appears as Paul , the plumber . We have to do a double take , as the actor is almost unrecognizable blond actor with a pony tail . Richard Shepard was matured since this picture , as shown in his latest effort , " The Matador " .
Read Sarah Dessen's books , they're better !	This is a film that goes in all directions without any logical explanation . At times the film seems to be taking place in Sunny California , and then there's snow ! Are we in the East , or was it in the West ? At any rate , Clare Kilner , the director , moves her characters in strange ways . The mother is a hysterical woman who can chastise her daughter , but then does exactly the same thing . The father is a fool who exchanges the mother for a " bimbette " . The older sister is involved with a foolish boyfriend , the only reason she sticks with him is a future life of luxury . Halley is about the only normal person in this family , but then , she almost loses it all by falling in love with a boy that seems to be trouble . Oh well . . . Mandy Moore , as Halley , is about the only reason for watching the movie . She is what holds it together . Allison Janney , an actress that's always good , is not as effective in this thing , at all . Neither is Peter Gallagher , as the talk show host father . What irritated me the most is the phony situation between the older sister and the rich boyfriend . Talk about mismatches ! They'll probably be in front of a divorce judge in the near future . Oh heck , one has to keep on trying until one gets it right , isn't that the idea ? SpoilerSpoiler Is it a new trend to present pregnant teen agers whose boyfriends have died ? This is the second film I've seen about the subject , the other one being " Due East " , in which there is a similar situation . Of course the message seems to be , have the baby and then get on with your life , even if the baby is given up for adoption , which is a cop out . If the young woman decides to go ahead , stick to the script and raise the child !
Haven't we seen this before ?	Director Carl Franklin should have stayed away from Joseph Finder's novel that is the basis for the film , or at least , he should have asked for a better adaptation . There is no originality in what we are watching . The characters come out as one dimensional . Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd have collaborated before , to better results . In this film the logic of the screen play needed a strong hand , or at least a reality check . We know from the beginning what's going to happen . There is no real suspense in the story and the way it turns out . James Caviezel , as Tom is the only one that has any opportunity to shine . Better luck next time .
Miss Morgenstern regrets	Herman Wouk's " Marjorie Morningstar " , a book published in 1955 , became an immediate bestseller . The book about a newly rich Jewish family from the Bronx , now living comfortably on Central Park West , was the kind of novel that was popular at the time . Its appeal was chiefly about the sexual awakening of a young woman who at first rebels against the choices made for her by her ambitious mother , but ultimately ends up married to a prosperous man from Westchester , leaving her dreams and ambitions behind . The movie version changes the ending , as Marjorie had finally come to her senses about her infatuation with Noel Airman and she is seen boarding the bus where a patient Wally Wronkin , the man who really loved her is also riding . The film version by Everett Freeman took some liberties , perhaps to make it more appealing to a younger movie going public . The end result seems to this humble commentator a cop out when all is said and done . What comes out on the big screen seems false from beginning to end . Perhaps reading the novel would be more satisfying because the original story is left to one's imagination . Part of the problem with the film was the casting of Gene Kelly , who was 46 at the time , against a radiant and youthful Natalie Wood . Miss Wood , who was starting to appear in films as a young woman . Ms Wood had grown up in the eyes of viewers of films of the late 40s and early fifties where she was seen playing small girls ' roles . She appears not as confident for a role that perhaps demanded a more convincing actress . It didn't help either that she and Mr . Kelly show almost no chemistry in their scenes together . Of course , " Marjorie Morningstar " had its following at the time it came out . Unfortunately , this film hasn't aged well . It feels false at times and at its most dramatic , it feels empty . The supporting cast was good , especially Claire Trevor , Everett Sloane and Ed Wynn , who are seen as the parents and uncle of the young heroine . Martin Milner , Martin Balsam and especially Carolyn Jones make a good impression . Irving Rapper , who had done better in previous movies , directed without breaking new ground . Perhaps the ultimate culprit lays in the screen treatment the film received .
High Aspirations	Manhattan's restaurants are the mecca for a lot of aspiring actors , a route most young thespians follow before they are discovered , because these eateries provide them with an income to help them pursue their goals . The city could be cruel to those that are starting in a highly competitive environment of the performing arts . The disappointments of the actors are at the center of Ken Liotti's account about the lives of some of these people as they balance dreams with reality . Mr . Liotti gathered a nice cast of basically unknowns that make this film a bittersweet experience as one follows the different friends he presents to us . While the movie gives us an account of these people's lives , it keeps the viewer interested in this sunny indie film . Will Arnett , Debbon Ayer , Dwight Ewell , Eddie Malavarca , among the young cast , are actors that , hopefully , will make it big in their own mark in films . The film will delight viewers of indie films thanks to the inspired direction by Mr . Liotti and his sunny performers .
Chatting on line with strange people	One of the most troubling aspects of going into a chat room is the fact that the anonymity of that medium lends itself for all kinds of opportunists that will do anything in order to get what they want . Such is the case with Gonzalo , an intense young man who is living with his girlfriend , Marta , in a huge apartment complex . Gonzalo is intrigued by a chat room in which someone is daring people on line to meet for an adventure . Little does Gonzalo know what he is getting into ! The motley group that meets by one big dam , that appears to be empty when they arrive , suddenly becomes a trap for the group as water floods the passage where Sergio , Sonia and Gonzalo are trapped . Marta , who is horrified about the experience and about the possibility of having lost Gonzalo , wants no more to do with the group , but Gonzalo's passion for participating in these adventures get the best of him . Sonia has clearly seen in Gonzalo as an object of her affections . She is attracted to him , and lets him know right away . Marta , on the other hand , begins to receive phone calls in which the caller never answers . At the same time , it's clear to her she is losing Gonzalo , who gets more obsessed with the antics the chat room character has invented for them . When Sergio disappears , during one of those daring feats , the group takes a macabre turn for the worse . Jacobo Rispa , the director of this film , seems to be a man that understands the subject . Unfortunately , the screen play , doesn't help him in making a better movie than what it could have been . There are elements in the film that will satisfy fans of this genre . The basic idea of the movie is something that could well happen , but the ultimate conclusion shows that the people behind this production ran out of ideas , or didn't know where to take the story for a better resolution . Pablo Echarri is seen as Gonzalo . Tristan Ulloa , of " Sex and Lucia " fame , plays Sergio . Pilar Punzano appears as Marta . The intense Marian Aguilera has some good moments as Sonia .
A wedding in a leaking tent	Nothing could bring more rivalry between parents and would be in-laws as a wedding . The young couple in this story has more common sense than their elders . They just want a small affair , but then , the parents get involved blowing the whole thing out of proportion . What a terrible waste these things are . After all , most of them would end up in divorce . Alan Alda has written , directed and is one of the stars of " Betsy's Wedding " , a film about two different families , one struggling , and the other one rich , whose children are going to marry . The comedy is a bit dated . What starts as a small wedding ends up as an elaborate celebration in a tent in the middle of a rain storm . There are a few laughs in the picture . Best of the whole thing are Ally Sheedy and Anthony LaPaglia who are supposed to be secondary characters . The large cast does what it can with the material they have to play . Alan Alda , Madeline Kahn , Molly Ringwald , Dylan Walsh , Joe Pesci , and Catherine O'Hara are seen as the family members .
Run Phillippa , Run	Are we to believe that Krzysztof Kieslowski had anything to do with this film ? I think not . He might have had an idea , but what comes on the screen is no tribute to his memory by director Tom Tykwer and co-writer Krzysztof Piesiewicz . What we see is a travesty and a sham . How could anyone in his right mind could justify this silly film ? Contrary to all the praise all major film critics have bestowed on Heaven , it's completely hard to understand what they saw in it . Did we view the same film ? The whole plot is so far-fetched that even the great cinematography and look of the finished product can't save it . How could this woman , Phillippa , have been so stupid in trying to take revenge in her own hands , without regard of the consequences ? The whole idea that she's helped to get away with a crime is beyond comprehension . Cate Blanchett is a great actress , no doubt , but sometimes the roles she takes are bizarre , to say the least . This woman she portrays here is one of the worst characters she has played because she's an idiot who can't differentiate between good and evil . If she was going to take care of a nasty piece of business why not take care of that person directly , not involving innocent people , or leaving it go the wrong way , as it was the case ? The carabinieri of Giovanni Ribisi is another hard to digest character . His Italian , ( he's of Italian descent , isn't he ? ) is atrocious . He and Blanchett make the oddest couple in recent memory in a film . His participation on the story is far fetched beyond words . You can't believe the Italian law enforcement to be this inane and inefficient . Why did they cast this light weight actor in a role that was begging for a Stefano Accorsi or another of the current crop of young , talented actors from Italy ? The story becomes a travelogue toward the end of the film . Nothing makes sense , even the message . It's almost as if Kieslowski is looking from above and he's laughing out loud at everyone that took this film as seriously as all the film critics who told us about this masterpiece of a fake . The underlying message is that if you're cool as Pillippa and Fillippo you can get away with murder and go directly to heaven .
Boy , oh boy , oh boy !	This copy of this film , seen recently on TCM , had a faded look , which contributes to lose the viewer's interest in a film that doesn't seem too relevant today . The main attraction for watching it , was the interesting cast put together for it . Unfortunately , the most important part , is terribly miscast . The story takes place in Manhattan at the end of the Great Depression . Based on a play by Maxwell Anderson , it probably worked better on the stage than in the adaptation that Julius Epstein , one of the best writers of the period , gave it . It doesn't help either , that director Vincent Sherman didn't appear to be too enthused with the material , as evident in the finished product . John Garfield was totally wrong for Rims Rosson . He doesn't have that spark that was his trade mark . In the film he is just too bland . Ann Shirley plays the sweet Bobby Halevy . Claude Rains , though , is about the most likable character in the film because as the father of Bobby , he is an honest man who wants to do everything possible to guarantee his daughter's happiness . The supporting cast is excellent . Lee Patrick , is seen as Florrie . Roscoe Karns and the always dependable George Tobias , make good contributions in minor roles . Watch " Saturday's Children " as dated curiosity piece .
Adrift in Acapulco	The mere idea that Mexican actors , Diego Luna and Gabriel Garcia Bernal were involved with " Drama / Mex " , was the main reason for watching this film written and directed by Gerardo Naranjo . This is , in many ways a movie that evokes better made ones by the likes of Alejandro Gonzales Inurritu , or Alfonso Cuaron , who have elevated the quality of Mexican cinema to new heights . " Drama / Mex " seems to have been a project of love on the part of everyone involved in it . The result feels like a cross between cinema-variete and a road picture , as we are taken along to meet a group of unconnected seedy characters that populate the lower depths of Acapulco . The film , with its two different narratives can be confusing at times if one doesn't pay attention of what is going on . What Mr . Naranjo has accomplished is to create an atmosphere of people in turmoil where he sets his characters to live and play . Best of all , Fernando Becerril , a solid actor who conveys the anguish Jaime is going through . This is a tormented soul and Mr . Becerril gives a nuanced performance . Among the young players , who might be non-professional , Diana Garcia , who is seen as Fernanda , shows a promise . Also Miriana Moro , as a young prostitute , and Emilio Valdes make valuable contributions . One can expect better things from Mr . Naranjo in the future .
A man for all faces	As biopics go , this 1957 film shows limited interest today . The legendary figure of Lon Chaney is examined by the same Hollywood where he went to make a legend out of his life . He was a giant in the world of silent films because of the disguises he created for the movies during his second career in the industry . Chaney was a man way ahead of himself as far as the creation of the special type of makeup he used for all the different characters he played . Lon Chaney's roots were in vaudeville , where he also was greatly admired . However , his lucky break came not in the theater , but in the new industry of the moving pictures that was starting in California . Mr . Chaney was able to bring something new to those pictures that sparked the imagination of audiences in the many films he starred in . His association with the legendary Irving Thalberg helped cement his own status in the movie business . His personal life though , was not a happy one . His first wife , the beautiful Cleva Creighton , showed she did not care from him and abandoned Lon and her young son without a second thought . Chaney received a big blow in the custody of the young son , Creighton , who was placed in an orphanage because he couldn't show means of support for the child . Being separated from his son Creighton was a big blow to the man who adored the young boy but couldn't get his custody until he made a name for himself in the film industry . His life with Hazel , his second wife , turned out to be a fine one without the ups and downs that affected his first one . The main attraction for watching this film was James Cagney , an actor who always gave an honest performance . In here , though , he seems to be playing a variation on his own " Yankee Doodle Dandy " in the first segment devoted to his life as an entertainer in the theater . The other half , his arrival in the movies , is not as interesting as the beginning . The film , directed by Joseph Pivney , doesn't break new ground in the way the narrative plays in the film . Dorothy Malone , who is seen as Cleva , has some interesting moments . Jane Greer is also effective as the sweet Hazel , the woman who always loved Chaney from afar .
On the run	Benoit Jacquot takes a real story from the 70s to base his film . " A tout de suite " photographed in black and white by Caroline Campeter , tries to capitalize on the mood and atmosphere of better made French movies of an earlier period . The young woman , Lili , at the center of the film , is a woman from a bourgeois home . Evidently , although nothing is made clear , her parents are divorced , or at least are separated . The big apartment where she lives with her father and sister seems to be the refuge for stray characters this girl feels attracted to . First , when we first encounter her , she is in bed with another young woman , who is a fellow student in her drawing class . There is a hint of lesbianism , although nothing is clear . Lili and the friend later meet a shady character who invites them to go dancing . In the boite , Lili meets Bada , a Moroccan , who she feels immediately attracted to . This chance meeting will prove to be Lili's downfall as she embarks in a partnership with a couple of bank robbers trying to escape justice in France . The film's best asset is Isild Le Besco , who as Lili makes the best of the central role . Ms . Le Besco is a beautiful woman who one sees in all her splendor . This is an actress who has no problems being naked in front of the camera that clearly adores her . Her character is a complex one . The other players , none of whom we are acquainted with , do their jobs well . Mr . Jacquot film has a feel of being a documentary in the way the action is presented . " A tout de suite " is only notable for the character study of Lili , but we don't feel involvement with the rest of the people we meet . It's a disturbing film that , judging from the empty theater where we saw it , doesn't seem to have caught the imagination of the public .
The Briggs of Cambridge	" Naked in New York " , is an indie film that is not seen much these days . In a way , its star , Eric Stolz is to be congratulated by his support to this kind of films . As directed by Daniel Algrent , and based on the material written by the director and John Warren , it shows it had a potential that somehow doesn't quite make the viewer root for these characters . At the center , Jake and Joanne . They seem to be an ideal couple . Not only are they attractive , but they appear to have their marriage under control , that is , until outside influences come their way and in a way try to derail it . Jake is an aspiring playwright and Joanne a photographer . Joanne makes it first when a gallery owner shows interest in her work and in her . Jake , helped by his college friend , Chris , gets one of his plays accepted for a Off-Broadway production . The separation of Jake from Joanne , plays heavily into their relationship . Jake suspects Elliott Price's motives when he makes Joanne his assistant . At the same time , Jake meets more than he bargained for in the theatrical world of New York , where he finds a fauna and flora he didn't count on . Eric Stolz and Mary Louise Parker make a good couple . Ralph Macchio is the gay friend who's secretly in love with Jake . Jill Clayburgh , Timothy Dalton and Tony Curtis are seen also . Kathleen Turner is excellent as the older theater diva who is instrumental in having Jake's play produced because she is in it . This was a good effort by all of the people involved .
Eve , the temptress	When we first meet Camille , the woman at the center of the story , she is seen at the swimming pool where she works . Camille has a problem relating to her own family , yet , she hangs out with two lesbian friends , who show great maturity on their part . Camille is given to bouts of despair and depression . One day , she bumps into a balding man , Alexis , as she has come out of a pharmacy with a supply of medicine prescribed by her doctor . Alexis , who is a socialist , watches the distressed Camille and advises her to throw away her medicine . Camille , who has seen Alexis walk into a nearby bistro , begins to frequent the place in hope of talking to him . One day while Camille is hanging out at the place , a long lost female friend happens to come into the bistro and is excited to see her again . Their meeting is cut off short when Camille decides to go after Alexis , who happens to pass by . The friend , clearly offended , gives Camille a piece of her mind . Alexis , a socialist organizer , is a married man . He doesn't want to get involved with Camille . He has a lovely wife and two daughters . By inviting Camille to come to dinner , he encourages this unstable woman to believe he is showing interest in her . The wife , Isabelle , who senses Camille's intentions , tells her Alexis is hers , and not to forget it . In spite of all the warnings , Camille's passion for this man is overpowering . Camille meets a truck driver at Alexis ' , Ben , who takes her out , but soon tires of getting no reaction to his advances . Ben , who reappears later in the story after Camille and Alexis have quarreled , asks her to marry him . On the way to their honeymoon , Ben tells her of a place in Auxerres . Camille decides to telephone Alexis and have him come to get her in the last train from Paris . Ben finds her at the station and beats her up . When Alexis arrive she is being taken away to the hospital . Months go by and one day a pregnant Camille runs into Alexis again . This time things will be different . Catherine Corsini , the talented director of " La Nouvelle Eve " also co-wrote on the script . She created a complex young woman , Camille , in a story that could be annoying because of the way Camille behaves . The saving grace was Karin Viard's luminous appearance in the film . This is not a heroine to love , on the contrary . Camille has so many mood swings that she baffles us because we don't know where she is coming from , at times . The rest of the cast do what they can . Pierre-Loup Rajat , looks like an unlikely romantic lead , yet , he is always interesting to watch . He and Ms . Viard make the film . The excellent Sergi Lopez is seen as Ben , the kind man who likes Camille , but he can't obviously live with her . Catherine Frot , as Isabelle has some good moments . The viewer will have to wait for the next Catherine Corsini's films , since , no doubt , she has what it takes to keep an audience going .
The healer	The possibility of finding an individual that wants to dedicate his life serving , and healing others , is something hard to achieve these days . That there was a real Father Mario Pantaleo , who embodied all that is good and noble in a human being , is a rewarding answer to that question . This godly man had a gift of having hands that made people better , as is the case at the start of the story when he heals Perla , a woman who has come to Father Mario in search of a cure for her illness . " Las Manos " , an Argentine film with its heart in the right place , was shown recently in a cable channel . Directed by Alejandro Doria , who also collaborated on the screen play with Juan Bautista Stagnaro , is a film that concentrates on the work of Father Mario , who had a mission in life to make other people well . His good deeds had a way of turning against him against the Catholic Church that should have been proud of counting Mario among the privileged few that are better known as saints . " Las manos " is an uplifting film because it shows us a dedicated man who only wanted to bring hope and well being to the ones that came in contact with this extraordinary person . The film works because of the excellent work of Jorge Marrale , an actor who we had admired in precious work . Mr . Marrale does wonders with his role and makes us believe he is Father Mario . Graciela Borges , who has aged gracefully in front of the camera , is on hand to portrait Perla , the woman who was grateful for her own cure and came to stay by the saintly man to help in whatever way she could in order to prove how much she cared . " Las manos " is an interesting film that will reassure even the most skeptical viewers because of the man at the center of the story . Excellent work by Mr . Doria and Mr . Marrale and Ms . Borges .
Houston , we have a problem	Parkes , New South Wales , Australia , became famous for its gigantic satellite dish in the middle of a sheep paddock . This dish was instrumental for communicating with the men of Apollo 11's mission to the moon . Neil Armstrong and his colleagues are about to land on the moon and suddenly the Australian tracking station loses contact with them . How could the people of the world react if they can't see the men taking steps on the lunar surface ? It's something that the technicians in Australia will have to deal with to relay the images of man's first walk on the moon . " The Dish " , directed with folksy charm by Rob Sitch , shows how the people in Parkes , a remote spot , a simple dot in the map , rally for the biggest event in their lives . They are proud of being at the center of such a historical moment . At the same time we are taken behind the scenes to see what is really going on . Cliff Buxton , and his team are dealt a blow when they lose the signal to Apollo 11 . Instead of panicking , Buxton decides not to tell Houston about the problem they are experiencing . Luckily , everything turns out all right . Sam Neill , makes an impression as Cliff Buxton . Patrick Warburton is equally good playing the NASA representative , Al Burnett . The Australian cast is wonderful in the way they capture the small time atmosphere in their moment where they are at the center of the world's attention . " The Dish " is an enjoyable comedy .
Hope , Faith and Charity	" Sweet Charity " , based in one of the best Fellini films ever , was an ill conceived idea for a musical from the start . In " The Nights of Cabiria " , the Italian prototype , Cabiria was a prostitute with a heart of gold and a cockeyed optimist . These qualities are somehow lost on this musical . Perhaps with another director , this being Bob Fosse's first film , the musical might have fared better . First of all , the musical in which " Sweet Charity " is based , was written by Neil Simon with original music by Cy Coleman . The screen play was by Robert Stone . On Broadway , the inimitable Gwen Verdon made this a creation , greatly helped by her pal Chita Rivera , who returns to repeat her stage role . This wasn't one of the most remarkable musicals , ever . As an entertainment , it was just passable . The best thing in the theater was the choreography by Bob Fosse himself . The problem with the screen adaptation is basically the main character herself . Charity , as played by Shirley MacLaine , tries to bring life to her character . Sometimes Ms . MacLaine succeeds in making us believe she is " dance hall hostess " , a decent girl that wants to escape her surroundings . Charity's friends , Nickie and Helene , played by Chita Rivera and Paula Kelly , are excellent actresses as well as dancers . They truly understood the Fosse's choreographic designs , something that Ms . MacLaine is somehow lost . The different situations taken from the Italian model , don't ring true at times . Charity's encounter with Vittorio , the egotistical Italian actor sounds phony . First of all , if Mr . Simon , or Mr . Stone were transferring the action to the New York of the late 60s , where did they think this Italian hunk lived ? Maybe in Rome , but not in New York ! Had they made it a Broadway star , or someone less exotic , it might have worked . Ricardo Montalban tries to makes us believe he is Vittorio , but we don't buy it . The other main events in the film , like the religious experience led by Sammy Davis Jr . is too choreographed and boring . John McMartin , another excellent actor , doesn't have much impact in the film . Oscar is as naive as they make them ! Some of the Fosse choreography tends to be repetitive as it rely in the same steps and body movements to make this musical special . Some of the supporting roles are good . Stubby Kaye , Lee Roy Reams , Ben Vereen , Suzanne Charney , among others make good contributions . For the real thing try to get a copy of Fellini's " The Nights of Cabiria " and really enjoy Cabiria , a Roman prostitute with a real heart !
Sex , lies and the hidden camera	A serene scene showing two young boys playing above a quiet beach changes completely as a dead man is seen naked in the rocks below , with the word " pork " written on his back . The man , Raoul Mons , a successful writer , has appeared before at his home just about to have dinner with his family . He is summoned to the front door where a group of concerned citizens have to come to enlist his support in condemning a theatrical troupe that is staging a blasphemous play in town . Mons , it will be discovered was a man living a double life . Enter Inspector Jean Lavardin , an astute investigator who also happens to be acquainted with the widow of the dead man , Helene Mons . The inspector was called to help solve Raoul Mons ' death . Lavardin is puzzled as to the reaction of this woman , who confesses she hated the dead man and had only married him for convenience's sake . Lavardin encounters a strange household in which a homosexual man , Claude , has a strange hobby of creating human eyes . In his collection there are eyes of celebrities as well as ordinary people . Then there is a teen ager , Veronique , who is docile , sweet and shy , at least on the surface . It takes Lavardin a while to sort through all the clues he discovers during his visit to the Mons ' estate in the outskirts of the small town by the sea . He catches a tangled web where wealthy citizens of the town have been involved with the shady owner of the disco in the heart of the old town . The revelations are surprising as well as the conclusion to this story . Claude Chabrol brings back Inspector Lavardin , who surfaced to fame in his previous film , " Poulet et Vinagre " . Jean Poiret returns as the inspector who discovers that what he is being told is not necessarily the truth . All the elements of the detective genre are found in this film that for us was not as satisfying as the previous film , although the movie is by no means a misfire . Mr . Chabrol's son Mathieu created the music score and Jean Rabier , a good cinematographer captured the story in glorious detail . Jean Poiret is fun to watch because he doesn't act like a regular detective . He has his own methods which pay for him handsomely . Bernadette Lafont , an actress that has worked with Chabrol before , plays a woman who is mourning for a former husband while having to deal with the mystery at hand . Jean-Claude Brialy is fun to watch as Claude , the gay sculptor of eyes . Jean-Luc Bideau is the creepy owner of the disco . The film will please fans of Mr . Chabrol .
There is nothing like a Dame !	Ben Marshall , a teen ager from a religious background , is made aware about the financial situation at home by his domineering mother Laura . She suggests him to find a temporary job in order to contribute to the household . In fact the family has taken a widower , to board with them . Robert Marshall , the father , is a pastor at the local church ; he'd much rather be in the country watching birds than tending to the souls entrusted to his church . The job Ben applies is with an older actress , Evie Walton , who wants him to do things for her around the house . " Dame " Evie , as she calls herself , is a woman of a certain age whose career has died maybe because she was not that great . In fact the only memorable appearance seems to be in a soap opera which was popular but she'd rather forget about it . Evie , who is a compulsive liar , tells Ben she's dying , only to forget it conveniently , later on when she comes clean to the boy . Ben is obviously in awe of the larger than life personality of his employer . He has been taking driving lessons . Evie asks him to take a camping trip , which he does against his better judgment . He knows that it will provoke his mother's fury . Not content with that , Evie decides to go on to Edinburgh , where she has been invited to read at an arts festival . It is this trip that solidifies their bond . Ben gets to meet and taste the pleasures of the flesh with a sympathetic Bryony . When Ben gets back , everything crumbles at home . His mother , who has been having an affair with a parishioner , decides to leave the family in favor of the young man she has been having an affair with . Ben and Evie's relationship survives the test of time . He also begins to see his own father in a different light . Jeremy Brock , the writer of " Driving Lessons " and other memorable English films , takes his first directorial job with this engaging comedy . The mixture of show business and religion , loyalty and friendship , are explored in his screen treatment making it a fun time at the movies . We have seen the similar situation before as in " Billy Elliott " , where Julie Walters plays a nurturing role with a younger man . We had read the film was based on Mr . Brock's own experience while working Dame Peggy Ashcroft when he was young . Julie Walters , who plays Evie Walton , is perhaps the best excuse to watch the movie . She always delivers . Ms . Walters is a welcome presence in any film she appears and she does wonders with her fake " dame " . Laura Linney , a luminous player herself , doesn't quite get our sympathy with her icy mother . Rupert Grint , famous for his Harry Potter's movies plays Ben , the young man who sees in Evie a kind soul . Nicholas Farrell is the betrayed father . Michelle Duncan has a small role in which she shines .
Market research	New York is a magnet for a lot of people that are trying to make it in the Big Apple . The 1950s saw a lot of young Americans that wanted to find their way in the world , as was the case of Meg Wheeler , who comes to the city with the idea that success is just a step away . The city was teeming with white collar jobs in all kinds of fields . Little prepares Meg for her arrival at the old Pennsilvania Station . As soon as she goes to ask directions , her luggage disappears ! In spite of that rude welcome , Meg gets over that initial bad experience and settles in an all women hotel where she makes friends who come to her rescue providing a wardrobe so she can be presentable for her job interviews . It's not hard for her to find a receptionist job in a sweater manufacturer's shop . The boss knowing Meg has a fine feminine figure wants her to display some of the things he is selling . Meg has her share of men that want to take advantage of her , notably , Ross Tayford , who sees an easy prey , but who is in for a big surprise ! Meg who has fallen for Evan Doughton , realizes that in comparison with his older brother , Miles , he is not the man for her . Meg and Miles develop a mutual attraction that proves Meg's heart was conquered by the more mature Miles . The film is made more enjoyable by the presence of a disarming Shirley MacLaine who was fairly new to the cinema , yet , she showed she had a tremendous appeal in everything she played . David Niven is seen as Miles , the older man who falls head over heels with the beautiful Meg . Gig Young and Rod Taylor appear as Meg's pursuers and both are charming . Jim Backus also contributes to the film's success as Meg's boss . Charles Walters directed with sure hand and created a fun film that is entertaining and fun to watch .
Changing partners	This is a difficult film to sit through . It presents a lot of morality issues that are unnerving . Andre Dubus ' work always asked a lot of questions about human relations like the ones that are presented here from two of his short pieces . It takes courage to take this material and bring it to the screen . Naomi Watts appears as one of the producers and she is to be congratulated even though we might be turned off by what we are watching . John Curran's directing the screen play from Larry Gross shows he has an eye for the material even though the pace is slow . The actual victims of the affairs of Jack and Terry and Hank and Edith , are their children . It is obvious the two daughters are going to be scarred for life . They see and understand a lot more , than they might seem to , well beyond their young ages . In fact , it appears both girls know what their parents are doing . It's easy to have an extra marital affair , but people entering into a relationship such as the quartet in this film do , have to realize they ultimately have to pay for their actions . Jack realizes it at the last moment . He knows he can't leave his son and daughter behind . Edith , on the other hand , had no problem continuing seeing Jack , as long as it was cool with him . Hank , the young English teacher , whose poem is published by The New Yorker , lives in a fantasy world . We don't see him attached to his daughter Sharon , the same way we know Jack is to his children . He hits on the female students without any problems . He couldn't care less what his own wife is doing . Terry , on the other hand , has to prove herself . She is a woman that has seen better days . Her beauty is fading and her house is a mess . On the other hand , Edith's house is spotless . These two women are going through a turmoil in their lives . The only positive thing is what Jack goes through when he takes the children to the river and suddenly we don't know whether he wants to kill them , or not . The idea of losing them is what makes him , at long last , see the light . We also get to see a contrite Edith leaving with her daughter Sharon toward the train tracks ; there is a hint of a possible suicide attempt , but no , she wants to start a new life and making a new start . Edith , also , realizes too late how she has harmed her daughter . The acting is excellent . Mark Ruffalo keeps changing from film to film . He is an interesting actor no matter what a movie asks him to do . The real revelation is Laura Dern . Her Terry is a composite of women of a certain age that suddenly realize they are not going anywhere and they have made mistakes along the way , almost losing her husband and family . Peter Krause is also effective as Hank , the callous writer in love with himself . Naomi Watts is the one that doesn't fare as well . Her Edith is an enigma . She is a woman obsessed with sex with another man , but at times we don't see enough heat coming from her . Ultimately , the two young girls that play the two daughters , Jennifer Bishop , and Haili Page make their characters seem real without doing much , which is an accomplishment .
Social climbing	William Thackerey's " Vanity Fair " has been adapted for the screen and television in numerous occasions . It is almost an impossible task to get a coherent take on a narrative that spans a lot of years and in which a lot happens . This adaptation of the book by Mira Nair with the adaptation by Julian Fellowes , is sumptuously photographed by Declan Quinn , who captures the Regency period in the England at the beginning of the XIX century . Ms . Nair's touch is evident in the way the costumes have an Indian flair as they were brilliantly executed by designer Beatrix Aruna Pasztor . Maria Djurkovic's wonderful production design is also an asset . If anything , this reincarnation of the Thackerey's novel is a joy for the eyes . The rich period in which the action takes place comes alive in the screen as a feast of colors , which in a way , compensate for the failings on the story and in the way Ms . Nair conceived the way she wanted to tell this tale about an ambitious young woman who is the epitome of social climbing . As a character puts in the film , Becky Sharp would be a perfect mountaineer . Part of what is wrong with the film is Reese Witherspoon in the central role . Not that her interpretation is wrong , it's that she doesn't project the character of Becky Sharp with an intensity that another actress might have brought to the role . In part , this might not have been Ms . Witherspoon's fault , but the director's , in the way she guided the key performance . The other failure of the film lies in the last scenes in which one finds Becky in Baden-Baden . Becky , Amelia , and Dobbins , haven't aged one iota . For the sake of realism , a bit of old age makeup should have been applied to these actors , or else , one might believe in the curative waters of that German spa . If it was true , we should be taking the next flight to Germany . After all , if that were the case , it would be the end of plastic surgery as we know it ! Some of the best actors of the English stage and screen are seen in various roles . Bob Hoskins , Eileen Atkins , Jim Broadbent , Gabriel Byrne , Barbara Leigh-Hunt , Rhys Ifan , Romola Garai , Jonathan Rhys-Meyer , James Purefoy , just to name a few , do an excellent job in the portrayal of their characters . This " Vanity Fair " , although flawed , is not a total failure . Mira Nair shows an amazing talent for being in command of such a large project .
The King in Hell	Don Coscarelli and Joe Landsdale have written a hysterical film , but it is not for everybody . In fact , there were only about 5 of us at the Angelika , the day I saw it . Now , that is a shame because this film has a lot going for it as it will become a midnight film for the people in the know . The best thing this movie has are the performances of Bruce Campbell as the airhead Sebastian-turned-Elvis and Ossie Davis . They both are the best and only reason for seeing this film . Unfortunately , the ending strikes a wrong chord , taking away from what otherwise would have been great film . So , better luck next time Mr . Coscarelli as you certainly belong to the Indies .
Fish and chips	" A Room for Romeo Brass " starts with a funny sequence as we watch Romeo and his friend Gavin walking through town and as they arrive at the fish and chips shop , Romeo asks for a large family order , which he proceeds to devour by himself , as he has no intention of sharing his meal with his friend Gavin . When he arrives home he hands his mother and sister two small packets of whatever he hasn't eaten . Shane Meadows , the director , and co-writer of this surprising small film knows a thing , or two , about young boys and the way they act toward one another . As it turns out , both Romeo and Gavin are neighbors and they are supposed to be best friends . When Gavin , who seems to be handicapped , and walks with a limp , is attacked by the soccer bullies , Romeo comes to his aid , but he is overpowered . Out of nowhere comes Morrell , who defends the boys and send the tormentors packing . This savior is a man who is much older and doesn't fit in the picture . A bit later on in the movie , we know why he wanted to get closer to Romeo , especially , he craves for the beautiful Ladine , his sister . In pursuing the girl , Morrell is instrumental in separating the two friends . The main reason for watching this film is Paddy Considine's work in it . Mr . Considine is a versatile actor who gives here a tremendous performance as Morrell . The young actors , notably Andrew Shim , and Ben Marshall appear to be naturals . Vicky McClure is good as Ladine . It took a while to get used to the accents , as some of the dialog was lost . Shane Meadows is a new talent with a lot of promise and we look forward to his new ventures .
The syndicate	This film , as some other contributors have already pointed out , belongs to the gangster movie genre . This is not a film noir as IMDb and some other comments suggest . Sure , there are elements of it , but it clearly strays from the basic concept of the noir , as we know it . " The Racket " originated in the theater . In fact , John Cromwell , its director , appeared on the original production on the stage . Mr . Cromwell , who is credited with the direction , was in fact , fired by Howard Hughes for differences in the original concept . Nicholas Ray was engaged to re-shoot some scenes that were then edited in what Cromwell had already shot before . One can see the different styles and that's why this film doesn't have a satisfying effect on the viewer . In spite of what William Wister Haines and W . R . Burnett fine screen play , and excellent work by the two leading actors , we are still left hungry for more . Robert Mitchum who plays against type as the courageous Capt . Tom McQuigg , gives a great performance as the uncompromising police chief who believe in doing the right thing . Robert Ryan is also seen in one of his tough appearances as the head of the local gang , Nick Scanlon . Lizabeth Scott doesn't have a great chance to shine in the film since her character stays outside of the action most of the time . William Talman , Ray Collins , William Conrad , Don Porter , are seen in supporting roles . John Cromwell had an eye for showing Los Angeles in all its splendor worked wonders with his cinematographer , George Diskant in this black and white film that although flawed , still shows its edge after more than fifty years since it went into production .
What's the secret ingredient in the pizza ?	Pizza , that delicious Italian dish has been adapted by people all over the world into their own way to express their interpretation about the way it should taste . It's not surprising that in Mystic , Ct . , where there's a large Portuguese population , Leona , the owner of the Mystic Pizza restaurant has created a concoction that is admired by everyone . Don't ask her to reveal her ingredients because she will not tell you . Daniel Petrie , the director , takes us along for a ride to this coastal town in which Amy Jones ' story is set . We meet the three friends that work in the restaurant , Jojo , Daisy and Kat ; the last two are sisters . Jojo is intense , but has a problem accepting the fact that Bill , her fianc , wants to formalize their engagement . In the opening scenes we watch as Jojo faints in the church where she is marrying Bill . Panic strikes and she jilts him . Daisy , is a beautiful girl who appears to be grounded . When Charlie , the preppy guy finds her at a local bar , it seems he is quite taken by her . Daisy , who should have known better embarks in a love affair with this young which one realizes is doomed from the start . Not only are they from two different worlds , but romances like these are just a passing fancy for wealthy boys . So is the involvement with the wise and intelligent Kat with Tim , the young father with a child who needs a sitter . Kat will be hurt in thinking Tim will want her over the absent wife . " Mystic Pizza " is about the friendship of the three local girls and their way of looking at life from different angles . Annabeth Gish makes a great appearance in the film with her Kat . Lili Taylor is also good as Jojo . This was a film that presented Julia Roberts that hinted at her success as a movie actress . The rest of the cast plays well in the film . Vincent D'Onofrio , William Moses , Adam Storker and Conchata Farrell do good work under Mr . Petrie's direction . Seen in a small role that if one blinks , one would miss him , is Matt Damon making his first screen appearance .
A perfect friend	Julien Rossi , a journalist from Geneva , wakes up in a hospital bed . He is suffering from a kind of benign amnesia for he has lost his short term memory . He can remember things that happened more than two months ago , but he does not know about what happened to him recently , or even how he got the trauma to his head . Lucas , his friend , comes to see him at the hospital , but he can't tell Julien anything about the state his friend is in . Even when the beautiful Marlene comes , he doesn't even know who she is . Yet , she comes and takes him home , but the person he asks for is Ana . Julien realizes he has lost his job . Lucas has taken care of informing the newspaper where he works about it . His placed has been filled . Julien realizes that Lucas , who up to recently was gay , has taken up with Ana . What's more , he begins tracing back his life , as it was before what happened to him , and he can't make sense of anything . Ana , who at first doesn't want to see him , comes around to talk to him . There are forces behind the suicide of a Professor Barth , that seems to be the key to what has befallen Julien Rossi . As he delves into the mystery things get more confused until we get to realize that Julien has been set up by an unscrupulous corporation that has been behind everything . He also discovers the role Lucas has played in the story . " Un ami parfait " is based on a novel that we haven't read . Francis Girod , the director , also contributed to the adaptation . Perhaps a different approach to telling the story would have worked better . The plot is too convoluted , and at times , it doesn't make too much sense . The viewer not paying close attention to the story will certainly get lost by the different twists and subplots . I don't know , was it me ? I thought that the actor playing Julien Rossi , as he lays in bed was Jean Reno . Of course , looking at the opening credits he was nowhere around . Antoine de Caunes who plays Julien Rossi has great presence and does an outstanding job with his character . Jean Pierre Lorit does well with his Lucas . Carole Bouquet appears as Ana , a minor role in the story . Martina Gedeck fares better as Marlene . Lovely Marie France Pisier has one pivotal scene as the widow of the man who commits suicide . Although a bit confusing , there is something about " Un ami parfait " that holds the viewer's attention .
Homeless in Paris	Alex , a young homeless man , is seen as the film begins walking in a drug induced state in the middle of an avenue in Paris ; it's a miracle he is not killed ! . When he falls , a car almost goes over him , resulting in an ankle fracture . Alex finds Michele , another homeless woman , sleeping in his spot when he returns to the oldest bride in Paris , Pont Neuf , which is being repaired . Thus , the bridge acts as a refuge for Alex , and Hans , another poor man who has given up on life , or so it seems . Hans supplies Alex with drugs , and the new arrival is a threat , as far as he can see . Alex is taken with the mysterious Michele , who has an eye patch and appears to be losing her vision , something we are never told what caused it . Michele is a girl that comes from privilege , judging by a letter Alex finds . It's clear to see the hold the young woman has on the homeless man , and he falls head over heels with her . The happiness , alas , is short lived . Alex has discovered a poster in the metro asking about Michele's whereabouts . In it , a pending operation that will save her eye is mentioned . Alex , who doesn't want to lose her , starts a series of fires that has a tragic consequence . Suffice it to say that the two lovers are reunited after they both seem to have dealt with their problems and we watch them sailing the Seine toward what appears will be a happier life . Leos Carax got excellent performances out of the two leads . Juliette Binoche makes an enigmatic Michele and Dennis Lavant is convincing as Alex . Klaus Michael Gruber is seen as Hans . The film could have improved with badly needed editing . Jean Yves Escoffier , the cinematographer captures the magnificent fireworks from the celebration of Bastille Day in Paris . The music by David Bowie , Dimitri Shostakovich and Benjamin Britten is heard in the background .
Taxi driver	Anselmo , the hero of this Chilean comedy , is a man whose fellow taxi drivers consider a jerk . Having found a bag containing a lot of money , he returned it to the police , something that was considered a stupid thing to do by an element in the society that wouldn't have batted an eyelash in keeping the money , had the situation involved them . The story starts at the airport in Santiago , where we watch everybody beating Anselmo to prospective customers right under his nose . Anselmo observes a mysterious young woman with a small child . While she makes a phone call , the little boy goes stealing candy from a shop . Little does he know that he is about to embark in the biggest adventure of his life , when Eva , who has arrived in Santiago for unknown business , hires him to take her and the little boy to a place downtown . Adrian , the little boy , is left in Anselmo's care against his will , as Eva promises to pay him well for his effort . The only problem Anselmo has is how can he explain the boy's presence in his apartment to Sandra , a neighbor , who is his secret love . There's one problem though , Sandra is engaged to be married to Anselmo's best friend ! Boris Quercia , the writer-director of this sunny comedy , works hard in front , and in back of the camera in order to entertain his audience . His take on this loser , is right on the money . In a society where men are supposed to be a step ahead of the game , the gentle Anselmo seems out of place . Little Diego Hurtado has some great moments in the film as does Tamara Acosta , the sweet Sandra , who realizes how sexually starved this lonely man is .
The zone	Zetterstrom , a talented pianist , is seen at an early age playing a composition for his teacher . His career that takes off because of his talent , comes to a crossroad when he meets the beautiful Andrea one night when he is locked out of his apartment . It is obvious he loves her , yet , one notices a certain lack of commitment on his part . Andrea's love for Zetterman will end up in tragic consequences . The pianist goes to New York , where he is well regarded for his brilliant technique , returns to Copenhagen where things have changed dramatically . There is a part of the city that has been cut off from the rest where no one is allowed to enter . Zetterstrom is asked to visit a mysterious man and he is given secret instructions in how to get in " The Zone " . His memory , it appears , has left him . As much as he tries , he doesn't seem to reconnect with his past . Zetterstrom receives an invitation to come to the Zone . Once there , the pianist meets a man in a wheelchair who instructs him to drink from a glass . He is leery , but decides to go along . What happens is that Zetterman's talent for playing the piano is gone forever as we searches in vain to regain it . Snippets of his past are seen in flashes leaving him frustrated because suddenly , he knows what went wrong in his relationship and personal life . " Allegro " , Christoffer Boe follow up after " Reconstruction " is an ambitious movie trying to combine on elements that we have seen in other films . The director goes into a territory that has been explored by other movies of the same subject . " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " and " Alphaville " two other movies that come to mind , must have inspired Mr . Boe in his conception of the material . Best of of all is the cinematography of Manuel Alberto Claro that serves the story well . Ulrich Thomsen makes an appealing Zetterstrom and perhaps the best excuse for watching " Allegro " . Gorgeous model turned actress Helena Christensen doesn't have much to do , although her part is not as important . Hennig Moritzen , who appears as Tom , makes an excellent contribution .
Making movies	Recently divorced Andy wants some excitement out of his dreary life in a small town . After giving thought to any number of possibilities , he decides to interest many of his friends into going along in making a porno film . This preposterous idea catches the town's imagination . They all agree it's an excellent way to make some money and have fun while at it . The only problem is Andy , or his cronies have no clue as how to go about it . " The Moguls " , written and directed by Michael Traeger is a film with no agenda to wow the viewer and that is why it is the fun it is to watch . The director was blessed in assembling the best cast money could buy . After all , a film with Jeff Bridges in it can't be bad . Mr . Bridges is one of our best film actors in that he is so adaptable to whatever part he plays that it is always a pleasure to see him on the screen . He is totally sincere in his approach to acting , perhaps the best asset any actor could have . Tim Blake Nelson , Joe Pantoliano , Ted Danson , Glenne Headley , Jane Tripplehorn , William Fichtner , Patrick Fugit , among others , act as an ensemble team , no doubt inspired by Mr . Traeger , who gets good results out of the talented cast he put together . The film doesn't ask anything out of the viewer . So just relax and have fun watching it .
Stalag VIII	This rarely seen film was presented on cable recently . In a way , this is a story that has been done before . The best thing about it is how well the copy that was shown has been kept . The black and white photography of David Boulton still looks fresh . Andrew L . Stone adapted the material as well as directed it . Most comments seem to be divided as to this version being a carbon copy of " The Great Escape " , or " Hogan Heroes " , in a way , it kept reminding us of " Stalag 17 " , which was the basis for the television series . While the movie is not up to the above mentioned models , it shows a more realistic approach to the insanity of war and the humor the British prisoners brought to their predicament . One thing comes clear , Dirk Bogarde was brilliant in his portrayal of Sgt . Maj . Charles Coward , a man that played a game of cat and mouse with his Nazi captors . Coward seemed to know how to escape from the Germans , only to end up being taken prisoner again , and again . He even finds love with a partisan girl during the time of war ! The film was obviously shot is England . Evidently , this was a low budget effort , and it shows . Had it been a Hollywood production , it would have been blown out of proportion , but what we really enjoy from " The Password is Courage " is the bonding one watches among all the prisoners .
At the tone , please leave your message . . . .	David Ellis , the director of " Cellular " shows he can produce a thriller for us to enjoy . The film kept reminding this viewer about " Phone Booth " , which was written by one of the screen writers , Larry Cohen . While the latter film packed much more suspense , " Cellular " has some thrilling moments going for it . As films of this genre go , it involves us for the pure entertainment that it is . After a placid walk to take her young son to his school bus , Jessica is shocked when her house is invaded by some strange men who proceed to kidnap her . She is taken to a remote house and one of her captors proceeds to destroy the wall phone attached to a post . Left alone , Jessica plays with the wires , and surprise , surprise , she is able to reach Ryan , a beach boy that has been dumped by his girlfriend and he is on his way on an errand trying to please her , when a strange call comes in for him . The rest is formulaic , as we have already seen these types of situations and know , perfectly well , what will happen and all the horrors that are packed into the movie . " Cellullar " is by no means a horrible film , on the contrary , it holds our attention until the end . Chris Evans , is about the best thing in the film . He plays Ryan , who saves the day as he proves he is resourceful enough to get Jessica free from the bad guys and get these scums arrested . Kim Bassinger plays the kidnapped Jessica . William H . Macy , one of our best actors working in films today , has nothing to do , only coming alive at the end . Also Jason Statham is good as Ethan . If the viewer is looking for a thriller , " Cellular " will not disappoint .
On the air	Can a mentally challenged black youth be a catalyst to unite people in a South Carolina town ? The answer appears to be that in spite of his handicap , James Kennedy , understood much more than what he was given credit for and went to become a fixture in the sports scene . Also , the film is saying how many of us overlook people with problems that can be helped if only we have the patience Coach Jones showed to the young man because of his own guilt in his heart . " Radio " , directed by Michael Tolllin , is a formula film inspired on a true story . Yet , the movie is not a complete failure because of the inspired performances the director was able to get from his wonderful cast . Coach Jones is instrumental in getting the young man , who is called Radio because his passion for collecting them , involved in sports , a passion he discovers in this retarded man who has had only hard knocks in his young life . Coming from a poor background , Radio , lives with his mother who is protective of him and questions the coach's intentions . Radio is seen by the school kids as a mascot , at first , then , his sunny disposition wins him the acceptance of everyone because he is a good person without an ounce of malice in his body . The film owes a lot to Ed Harris and Cuba Gooding Jr . who make a great pair as the coach and Radio . Mr . Harris , one of the best actors of our times is never boring in anything he graces with his presence . He gets the essence of the principled coach who sees the possibility to make amends for something that bothers him from his past . Cuba Gooding Jr . is also at his best portraying the mentally challenged young man . The supporting cast is excellent . S . Ephata Merkerson , one of the best actresses of her generation , does interesting work as the mother of Radio . Alfre Woodard , another good actress plays the high school principle with style . Debra Winger , only has a few scenes in the film . " Radio " , while being sentimental , will warm anyone's heart because it shows how we tend to see some people are in our society that we know nothing about and how quick we are to judge them . Michael Tollin puts a lot of ideas in the proper perspective for us .
For me and my gal	MGM musicals dominated the genre . No one could make musicals like they could , although a few studios tried with lesser success , as is the case with this one done by Fox in 1942 . Irving Cummings was a director that tried his hands at directing musicals with mixed results . " My Gal Sal " is the biography of Paul Dresser , an American composer who wrote tuneful , if somewhat bland songs . The screen play is by Theodore Dreiser , a writer on his own right , but who had nothing to add to make this film work better . This is a musical that has a dated look from the beginning . The situation is preposterous , at best . Rita Hayworth shines as the red headed Sally Elliott , a singing star of the musical theater of the time . She is responsible for the discovery of young and inexperienced Paul . She likes his songs and doesn't hesitate in stealing one to include in her show . Never did the technicolor loved anyone as it loved Rita Hayworth ! She was a beautiful woman who lights up the screen any time we see her . Victor Mature , as Paul , plays an unworldly Paul Dresser . He is a country boy and it shows . It is through his association with Sally that he gets the kind of sophistication he never had . In minor roles James Gleason , as Paul's agent is excellent . This character actor graces with his presence dozens of films where he is always in the background . The great Phil Silvers appears briefly in a couple of key scenes . He was a talented actor of the stage and the screen and television that was always a welcome addition to everything he appeared in . Also , Carol Landis is seen in a small role . See the film as a curiosity piece . The songs are tuneful , if forgettable .
Bohemians in Alphabet City	It's obvious this musical has an incredible fan base . That became evident when we saw the movie version the other day . There were a lot of young people in groups that came to see what director Chris Columbus did to the musical that is still running on Broadway after nine years . The screen adaptation is by Steve Chbosky . " Rent " , written and composed by Jonathan Larson , started as a small musical at the NY Theater Workshop and then was transferred to the Nederlander theater where it's still playing . The film has six of the original cast members in it , the exception being Freddie Walker who is substituted by Tracie Thoms and Daphne Rubin-Vega who was the original Mimi , a role that went to Rosario Dawson in the film . This movie will definitely resonate with a younger audience . The music is targeted to them . This is a pop-rock opera and make no mistake about it . Don't go thinking you are going to find anything resembling Puccini's " La Boheme " . The musical is extremely loosely based on the characters from the opera , but that's where all the comparison ends . The people one sees in the musical are more real because the pain of what is going on in their lives is clearly evident . The AIDS epidemic affects a few of the characters ; there are gays and lesbians just being themselves without anyone judging what they do . At the bottom of it all is every day survival in that environment . What " Rent " is , it's a celebration of the life on that side of New York during the 80's when anarchists populated the lower east side of Manhattan squatting in abandoned buildings and living precariously at the edge of a society that didn't want them around . The young people that were attracted to the area brought with them a new way of living without prejudice . Alas , everything comes to an end . In fact , just a tour of the area today will show the gentrification that is taking place after Mayor Giuliani and his ilk got these bohemians evicted in order to give way to condominiums and new luxury dwellings where the people the movie celebrate will have no chance to live in them at all . This seems to be the problem when artists create spaces that later on are taken over by the establishment , only to displace the creators , as has happened in Soho , Dumbo , and will not be too far behind in displacing the Williamsburg's artistic settlers . As a film , " Rent " , has great moments . Even though one has heard the songs many times , there is still a fresh take on them by the talented cast that sing them . Anthony Rapp , Adam Pascal , Wilson Jermaine-Heredia , Jesse Martin , Taye Diggs , Idina Menzel , Tracie Thoms and Rosario Dawson work as an ensemble under the direction of Mr . Columbus , who would have appeared as an unlikely candidate for directing the film , but who brings the best from his talented cast . By the way , " Rent " was filmed in the west coast , so don't go looking for any authentic East Village locations , since most of what one sees was probably shot in a studio . The Horseshoe bar is shown on the outside , and a scene of Tompkins Square Park , but the rest is fake .
Resurrection	Wim Wenders ' documentary seems to have been made as a companion to the best selling CD . Ry Cooder was responsible for resurrecting these old Cuban musicians from oblivion . We saw this film in its debut day at the Angelika and remember the emotional response by many people in the audience as the documentary unfolded . Having seen the DVD recently , it brought back memories about that June day . Actually , all praise has been directed at Mr . Cooder , who is the man who had the clout to bring this group into the attention of the world , first with the recording , and then with this film . However , no one gives credit to Juan de Marcos Gonzalez , the man responsible for getting all these forgotten musicians together . It's because this man's love for that type of music that one is able to appreciate the men one sees in the film . The tremendously talented Cuban musicians are finally given the tribute they were due because their contribution to the kind of music that will always be heard because the way it resonates with the listener . As far as the document go , the Cooders , both Ry and Joaquin , are given a special treatment , but then again , without them , who would have even heard of the Buena Vista Social Club ? : No one ! Ibrahim Ferrer , Eliades Ochoa , Ruben Gonzalez , Pio Leiva , Guajiro Mirabal , Compay Segundo , Cachaito Lopez , Omara Portuondo , and the rest of the players are shown with great respect by Mr . Wenders , who seems to be enjoying directing these all timers doing what they do best . One can only cry for what the regime in that unhappy island did to this great musicians for such a long time until the powers that be in Cuba found out how much money they could make by exporting the same people they had chosen to forget .
Pygmalion hip hop style	This film , directed by Sara Sugarman , and coming from the Walt Disney people , is clearly targeted for teen agers , as the familiar themes are at center stage . While the film doesn't break new ground , it's easy to see why young viewers would be attracted to it . Dyan Feldon wrote the book in which the movie is based , and Gail Parent , a woman who knows how to write comedy , adapted it for the screen . The film best asset is Lindsay Lohan , who plays the main character , Lola . She has been taken from her Manhattan environment to suburban New Jersey and is enrolled in the Dellwood High School , where she sticks out as a sore thumb . In order to appear arty and with it , Mary Elizabeth Cep becomes just plain Lola . In her mind , the new name gives her a sophistication the other kids don't have . In her deception , Lola makes everyone believe her father has died in a car crash , when in reality , he is well and living in Manhattan . She becomes friendly with Ella , a shy and smart girl , who under Lola's influence begins to lighten up . Ella is a girl with high moral principals , something that the movies don't like to emphasize too much . Lola , on the other hand , is not a bad girl , but she is clearly living in a world of make believe . When Ms . Baggoli , the drama teacher begins casting for the school production of " Pygmalion " , she decides to " update it " by staging the material in hip hop and Lola , who is competing against the favorite Carla , wins the role of Eliza . We only get to see a small part of the play itself . After watching it , a new star , Lola , is born . The film capitalizes on Lindsay Lohan's talent . Ms . Lohan is a charismatic young actress who excels in these types of roles . Adam Garcia , Alison Pill , Megan Fox , play some of the teen agers in Lola's life . The great Carol Kane is wonderful as Ms . Baggoli , the music teacher . She is perfect as this drama teacher in suburbia . While most comments in this forum seem to be critical of the film , it is light and predictable , but Sara Sugarman , its director appears to know how to tell this story with a light touch .
Victor and Valentina	This Mexican film directed and written by Jose Buil and Marisa Sistach , takes us back to the beginning of the last century to the times when the country was at the brink of the revolution that took place in the 1910's in that country . We meet Victor , the son of the owner of a small circus that travels the back roads of Mexico bringing their kind of entertainment to the masses . Victor is befriended by Guy , a French man , who brought one of the Lumiere cameras to the country and shows his films to the unsophisticated crowds . Victor falls in love with the technology and Guy , sensing the young man's eagerness , is happy to part with his camera . At the same time , we are taken to Valentina's house , where her father is preparing pamphlets that are pro-Madero , who is in exile in San Antonio . As the police raids the place , Valentina is able to hide in an attic with the money that has been collected for the cause . After she flees the house , she ends up at the circus . Victor takes a liking to the young woman ; it's clear he has fallen in love with the innocent girl . The saga of Victor and Valentina as they elude the police that is on her trail is at the center of the action . The atmosphere of the circus and its performers comes alive in the film . Victor's father is a dying man and he expects his son to keep his trade , but the young man has been bitten by the bug of the cinema as he films whatever strikes his fancy with the primitive movie camera . The DVD we recently watched was almost impossible to see because of the dark tones used by the cinematographer , Gabriel Beristain . Most of the time was hard to distinguish the actors against the mainly night action of the film . One can't imagine if it was the directors intention , or just the way it turned out , but be warned that most of the images are almost lost in the dark backgrounds . Victor Luna , a talented actor , is Victor . Ana Claudia Talancon plays the beautiful Valentina . Carmen Maura makes an appearance as Lupe , Victor's father companion . Patrick LeMauff is Guy , the French man who introduces Victor to the world of cinema .
I confess	Robert Lepage , an actor and writer turned director , whose previous work showed great promise , has done wonders in this uneven , but interesting take on the life of two brothers in Quebec City , where he sets this multi layered story . The film mixes eras , as the original story dates back to the 50s when a young woman , of a working class and devout Catholic family , finds herself pregnant under the most mysterious circumstances . Although our suspicions point in one direction , nothing is completely black and white . The story concludes in the 80s as Pierre , who had been away in China , returns home to attend his father's funeral . Pierre's brother , Marc , never comes . Pierre finds out , to his horror , about Marc's secret life and meets the man who holds the key to the mystery at the hotel where he is working . Raymond Massicotte , knows more than he wants to tell . The other element in the film is a vignette about Alfred Hitchcock . The director had gone to scout locations and do local casting for his own " I Confess " , which in a way , parallels the action of this movie . This part is not completely as interesting , and it's somehow distracting from the other narratives . Lothaire Blutheau , one of the best Canadian actors , whose work we have admired for a long time , is seen as Pierre , in a great performance . Pierre Goyette plays Marc with sincerity and high intensity . Jean-Louis Millette has some excellent moments as Raymond Massicotte . Kristin Scott Thomas is seen as Hitchcock's assistant . Robert Lepage directed with an eye for detail in this involving drama . The film is worth viewing because it shows Mr . Lepage in great form . Sacha Puttman's background music plays well with the action . Alain Dostie's cinematography captures all the darkness in the story .
On the beach	Robert J . Siegel owes a great debt of gratitude to Lauren Ambrose , who makes a luminous appearance in " Swimming " . Mr . Siegel contributed to the writing of the screen play with Liza Bazadona and Grace Woodward . The end result is amazing because the director and his team have accomplished a lot with what seemed to be a low budget . Which goes to show how some Hollywood productions would be better if they went for quality and artistic values , rather than millions of dollars invested in silly movies . We are taken to Myrtle Beach during the busy summer season . There are all kinds of people coming to make the scene and to have fun . In the middle of the action we find the Wheeler siblings who are trying to make a go of their hamburger joint facing the beach . Their parents have moved to Arizona and have turned the restaurant operation to Neil and Frankie , who we first see feverishly working the rush lunch hour at the beach side restaurant . Frankie is a girl who hasn't experienced much in life . In contrast , her best friend , Nicola , seems to know a lot for her young age . Frankie is the epitome of kindness . When the beautiful Josee comes looking for a summer waitress job , Neil decides to give her a break . Frankie feels an attraction to this newcomer because , perhaps , she embodies all what she would like to be and it's not . Frankie dresses plainly and has no sense of style . Josee takes her under her wing , and Frankie repays her kindness by letting her share her room and bed . Josee seems to be hip to try anything that will give her a thrill ; she is a callous young woman that seems to be using the new situation to her own advantage . When Heath enters the restaurant asking for eight hamburgers without buns , Frankie is intrigued . She only finds out the meat is for the two dogs he keeps in his van . Heath is a tie dye artist who earns a living selling his " artistic " tee shirts to the summer tourists . Frankie sees in Heath the promise of love with this caring young man . Lauren Ambrose is a revelation in her portrayal of Frankie . This young actress surprises us in that he projects such an intelligence and common sense for someone her age . Ms . Ambrose is what holds the film together as she makes us care for this girl . Excellent ensemble playing by the rest of the cast , but worth a mention is Jennifer Dundas , as Nicola . Also Joelle Carter is the beautiful Josee . Jamie Harrold is good as Heath and Josh Pais plays Neil with conviction . Let's hope Mr . Siegel will follow up this indie film with something he and his writing partners might do next .
Interview with a legend	" Bette Davis : A Basically Benevolent Volcano " was shown recently on TCM . This is basically an interview with Bette Davis more than a documentary . In it , we get to see the star of so many films talking to the camera about her views on her career and her films . Since it is a candid conversation with Ms . Davis , she seems to be directing her opinions to us , the viewers , on the other side of the room in an intimate way . The narration by Ian Holm makes a good deal of sense , enhancing what we one is watching . What this interview could have used was a different format in which , in addition to telling us about herself , more emphasis in her career could have been illustrated with film clips that would have had a more comprehensive and cohesion in examining and illustrating her long association with the cinema . As it plays , one only gets to see some of her most obvious achievements , while other films in which she shone are not even mentioned , or are bypassed without an explanation . We understand the limitations of this format , and the viewer is lucky to catch a fleeting glimpse of the woman who was a down to earth person in the land of make believe . Ms . Davis never lost touch with her Yankee values and no nonsense attitude toward everything she did . In fact , her puritanical background indicates her upbringing and the influence her mother had on her . Bette Davis , the consummate actress and artist , confesses her quest for perfection and how most of her work didn't quite satisfy her . In fact , the only film that comes close to her best work seems to be " Dark Victory " , which she considered to have met her criteria for the perfection she wanted in everything . It's a shame that only Olivia DeHavilland , Anne Baxter , Geraldine Fitzgerald and Joseph L . Mankiewicz offer their opinions about Bette Davis . They knew her well , but one misses hearing from other voices too . The interview is essential for Bette Davis ' fans who can see one of the legends of the cinema recounting her life for our benefit .
South of the border	Archie Mayo's " Bordertown " is a film that by today's standards would be deemed politically incorrect . The idea of the poor Mexican immigrant that wants to better himself , only to see people step all over him , is at the center of this tale . Juan Ramirez , the young lawyer , trying to defend the victim of an accident caused by the young and reckless Dale Elwell , is defeated by a much more experienced Anglo lawyer , who happened to know the system and the judge , obviously . As a result , Juan , decides to leave L . A . to go to a border town , probably Tijuana , where he becomes a partner of Charlie Roark , a decent man who sees the potential in Johnny , as he calls himself now . What Charlie doesn't know is that he is married to a scheming woman that couldn't care less for him . She has to get rid of her husband in order to get her hands on his money and looks to Johnny to help her , but of course , he wants nothing to do with her . Paul Muni was a great star at Warner Bros . at the time of this film . We were never fans of Mr . Muni , who in this film gives a clichd account of the Hispanic Juan in a performance that goes over the top and doesn't convince anyone . On the other hand , Bette Davis , as Marie Roark , is her usual excellent self in a more nuanced performance . We see why later on , Ms . Davis will use all what she shows in this film and more to be the great star that she was . In minor roles , the formidable Eugene Palette plays Charlie Roark and Margaret Lindsay is seen as Dale Elwell , the rich girl that provoked the accident . This film is a rarity seldom seen these days .
Rags to riches	" The Easiest Way " is an example of how Hollywood could deal with thorny subjects before the arrival of the Hays Code . We are presented with a situation in which a young , poor , but attractive young woman , could go up in the world using her natural charms in a realistic way . That was going to change in a few more years , as the Code would not let themes such as this one be dealt with the frankness prior to its arrival . The film , directed by Jack Conway , is curiosity piece by today's standards . The original work was made for the stage where there was an open mind about risky situations . We are presented with a poor family at the beginning of the story living in a crowded tenement . Laura , the beautiful young girl has no future of getting a rich man that will take her away from the poverty she is living . When a rich man enters her life , she sees the opportunity to escape her humble origins . The film deals in a realistic way with the subject of the illicit affair between Laura and Bill Brockton . When she falls for young Jack Madison , she believes that she must abandon the man that provides her comfort and easy life , until she finds herself penniless and must face with the fact that she has to go back to Bill , but loses Jack in the process . At the end , we watch her spying outside her married sister's suburban house which is the epitome of happiness . Constance Bennett makes an interesting Laura , but this is not her best role in the movies . Robert Montgomery is not seen enough in the film . Adolph Menjou makes a great Bill Brockton , the rich man who loves Laura in spite of the fact he knows Laura doesn't care for him . Clark Gable made a good impression as the brother-in-law critical to Laura . Marjorie Rambeau , Anita Page and Hedda Haper appear in minor roles .
Provincial life	Life in this small town in an Argentine province , seems to be typical of what one would expect . We meet two gossips behind partly opened blinds prying on their neighbors . Through them we get to know part of the story , as they comment about the family across the street . There is a problem : a young and beautiful woman is pregnant by a much younger man that also lived nearby , and whose parents have evidently thrown out of the house for the shame he has brought them . Director Fernando Musa takes us to see how this family live in strained circumstances . Chiche is allowed to see Marianito in her home with her parents ' consent . It's not a typical situation because of the small mindedness of places like this one to be so open about something such as an out of wedlock pregnancy . " Chiche bombon " is a good effort by its director , who followed up his much accomplished film , " No sabe , no contesta " with this tale of hopelessness and frustration in an area where unemployment seems rampant . Not until the end , Chiche , the young pregnant woman , discovers some hope that arrives in the form of religious faith when she joins a door to door sect dominated by a mysterious man . Andrea Galante as Chiche is good . Federico Canepa as the troubled young man remains a puzzle , as we never get to know what made him leave Chiche . Ingrid Pelicori and Enrique Liparace play Chiche's parents . The gossips as played by Vivien El Javer and Renee Rosana Darin are perfectly portrayed . Fernando Musa shows he is a director that is not afraid to tackle difficult themes . One only wishes he could reach a bigger audience in future endeavors .
Coming to America	Joshua Marston has created a film that is disturbing , as well as positive in trying to condemn the illegal traffic of drugs . This movie should be a warning to would be ' mules ' to think about it twice before embarking into a trip that could well land them in jail , away from family in a foreign country , or even dead . SpoilersMaria , in the film appears to be not dealing with reality . On the one hand , she wants to improve her life , but on the other she finds that after getting her share of the money for transporting the drugs , she doesn't have one iota of remorse about the criminal act she has committed . Obviously , in her mind she justifies the end because of what she had to go through . Of course , the problem that she faces is the threat the drug people tell her about what they'd do to her family back in Colombia , which , would be a deterrent for these young people to come forward and accuse the higher ups . We never get to see in detail what happened to Lucy , the friend who dies when a pellet bursts inside her . This is the danger the " mules " face in transporting the drugs . We hear repeatedly about deaths in the news of people who don't make it to the end . It is a horrible death . Maria deceives Carla and her husband in order to get shelter in New York when she goes with Blanca to visit her under the pretext that Lucy had sent her to say hello . Maria shows a sophistication , rare for a girl that is from a rural area of Colombia . She is a survivor . Catalina Sandino Moreno is a young woman of dark beauty . The camera loves her ; she is a natural . Her take on Maria is right . Also excellent is Patricia Rae , as Carla . This kind woman opens the door to her home just because she is a friend of her sister . Guilied Lopez , also is good as Lucy . This is an eye opener and a cautionary film that must be seen by anyone that is considering being a mule .
The Addams family	This was obviously a Claudette Colbert vehicle . " The Secret Heart " is not shown often these days , and it's a good melodrama , typical of the era . Robert Z . Leonard directs with panache this story about a woman's sacrifice and decency . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you should not read further . We first meet Leola ( Lee ) aboard a luxury liner with Chris Matthews , who is obviously in love with her . Lee has been asked to marry Chris ' best friend Larry , and Lee feels her duty to go ahead with her plans to marry this troubled man , a widower with two small children . What Lee gets from that union is much more than what she bargained for . Larry turns out to be an embezzler at the bank he works for . His guilt will make him commit suicide . Lee decides the right thing to do is to repay Larry's debts and hide from the young children the fact about their father's suicide . Chase , the boy , is a grounded person and he goes on with his life . Young and fragile Penny , who adored her father and the music he played , never recovers and retreats into a cocoon ; she becomes a troubled girl that only finds comfort in playing the piano just to imitate her father . Claudette Colbert does wonders playing the courageous Lee . She caters to the children and becomes a successful real estate agent . Of course , as the stereotypical step-mother of all dramas , she is not appreciated by Penny , the girl that carries a grudge toward Lee . Walter Pigeon is the man who has loved Lee forever , but he is too decent to even come close to her . June Allyson is perfect as Penny , the neurotic girl who will find the truth about her father's fate at the end . In minor roles we see Robert Sterling , Patricia Medina , Richard Derr and Lionel Barrymore . This film is well crafted and acted under Mr . Leonard's ti
The best of all worlds	Julio , a Cuban writer , returns home from Spain to find his teen aged daughter , Millie , has been seeing an older Spaniard , Manolo . Like others of her generation , Millie , thinks the older man will be her ticket out of the country . On the other hand , Julio , and his wife , Miriam , seem to be part of a privileged citizens . After all , he has been abroad for a while and his wife is a doctor . Their house doesn't seem to lack all the material comforts only afforded for bourgeois socialist classes . This novelist , who seems to be having a case of writers ' block , has no problems in the bedroom department . No sooner does he arrive in Havana when he resumes an affair with a beautiful teacher , Silvia . In turn , his own situation with his wife suffers because Miriam finds a kind soul in the man that would have been her future son in law . In the meantime , Julio has bedded a luscious young television reporter and has made a mess out of his relationship with his mistress . Gerardo Chijona , the director and co-writer of this film , has done better . While this is by no means , a horrible film , it's just not believable . As a comedy , it has some moments . There is a lot of gratuitous nudity in the film . Luis Alberto Garcia , who plays Julio does good work as the man who can't commit to his wife , or his mistress . Sancho Gracia is seen briefly . The excellent Susana Perez and Beatriz Valdes are the best asset of the film . Both actresses are convincing and help to the overall enjoyment .
The music man	Jerome Kern is the subject of this biopic that MGM put together as an after thought because even though it's about the great composer's life , little is learned about him . The movie was directed by Richard Whorf as a great spectacle , one in which the magnificent talent employed by the studio is showcased interpreting Mr . Kern's music . The composer is seen arriving in New York and being referred to a man who is supposed to be the best in arranging songs . The fictitious James Hessler is seen as an influential figure who worked close with Mr . Kern and acted as his mentor and collaborator . By his own admission Mr . Kern was not an exciting figure , but he left behind a body of work that still is vital and has survived the passing of time , as his songs became standards . The main reason for watching the film is to enjoy the MGM stars doing what they did best , singing and dancing for our benefit . In a spectacular and colorful finale , we are treated to a wonderful production number involving Jerome Kern's best known songs . Robert Walker's take on the composer makes a bland figure out of Mr . Kern . Van Heflin as Hessler proves to be much better . In the musical numbers we are treated by Lena Horne , June Allison , Tony Martin , Cyd Charisse , Lucille Bremen , Van Johnson , Frank Sinatra , Judy Garland , Angela Lansbury and others . Although the film doesn't break new ground , it's a wonderful way to catch up with the stars in the background in some great renditions of Jerome Kern's beautiful songs .
A cruise to nowhere	The problem with " The Weight of the Water " , the film , is the way the novel by Anita Shreve , was adapted for the screen . This is the basic flaw that even a good director like Kathryn Bigelow couldn't overcome when she took command of the production . The novel , as it is , presents grave problems for a screen treatment , something that the adapters , Alicia Arlen and Christopher Kyle , were not successful with their screen play . The picture is basically a film within a film . Both subjects , the present time and the story that is revealed as Jane gets involved , parallel each other , but one story has nothing to do with the other . Also , the way this film was marketed was wrong . This is not a thriller at all . What the book and the film are about is human situations that are put to a test . In the story that happened many years ago in a settlement in coastal New England , there was a notorious murder at the center of the narrative . It has to do with a wrongly accused man , Louis Wagner , a man that is basically crippled with arthritis that is accused by Maren Hontvelt , his landlady , as the one that killed two women , Karen and Anethe . In flashbacks we get to know the truth of how an innocent man is hung for a crime he didn't commit . The second story shows how Jane who is traveling with her husband Thomas , in his brother's yacht . She is a photographer on assignment about the place where the women were murdered , years ago , is lured to the subject matter she is photographing , and makes the discovery of the truth . Her own relationship with her husband Thomas is a troubled one . They are doomed as a couple , one can only see the way he leers after his brother's girlfriend as she parades almost naked in the pleasure boat they are spending time . In the novel the tension comes across much deeply than what one sees in the movie . The amusing thing about the film is that the secondary story is more interesting than the present one . Thus , the luminous Sarah Polley , who plays Maren in the secondary tale , makes a deep impression , as does the accused man , Louis Wagner , who is portrayed by Ciaran Hands . Sean Penn , comes across as somehow stiff as Thomas . The wonderful Katrin Cartlidge is totally wasted . The film has elicited bad comments in this forum , but it's not the bad movie some people are trying to say it is . Better yet , read Ms . Shreve's novel as it is more satisfying than what came out in this movie version .
Friendship	Perhaps not having read Maeve Binchy's book , in which this film is based , and never seeing the film when it was released , helped this viewer to enjoy it , perhaps more than most people that saw it in its commercial debut . Pat O'Connor and his adapter , Andrew Davies , give us a portrait about the friendship of three young girls in the story , as they go from childhood to womanhood in the Ireland of some time ago . We meet the three friends as the film opens . There are Benny , Eve and Nan , who are inseparable . They grow up and their relationship continues right through adulthood . The three friends go to university and we see them attending Professor Flynn's class , which seems to be the girls ' favorite teacher . Nan , the prettiest of the three has no prospects of marrying into money . She decides to go after Simon Westwood , a wrong choice that turns out even worse when she discovers he couldn't care less for her . He just wants to marry money and she doesn't have it . Eva , the orphan girl brought up by nuns , has no prospects either , but she has a cottage in the country that Nan finds convenient for exploring her sexuality with Simon . The best adjusted of the three friends is plain Benny , who seems destined to marry her father's clerk , the reptilian Sean . She has her eyes set on Jack Foley , the hunky jock . Jack in turn likes her , but things intervene between them . Minnie Driver , is a marvelous presence in the film . She makes the plain Benny come alive . Saffron Burrows is perfect as the vain and beautiful Nan . Geraldine O'Rawe plays Eve . Chris O'Donnell is Jack Foley , who makes a good impression . Alan Cumming , Colin Firth and Ciaran Hinds are perfect in their supporting roles . " Circle of Friends " , while not breaking any ground , is still a good movie to watch because Pat O'Connor's direction and the ensemble acting cast .
Daniela	Bertrand Blier , one of the most innovative provocateurs of the French Cinema , is at it again with this satire which will be viewed with pleasure or anger by his fans . Mr . Blier , who also wrote the screen play , is a man whose movies appear to be something on the surface , but he , like other Europeans are really examining the society in which they live . Therefore , it's easy to dismiss this work on the outward appearance of what one sees on screen . The premise is about how money can't buy happiness , or even sexual excitement , as is the case with the poor Francois , a man who , might , or might not , have won a fortune in the French lottery . When he spots the luscious Daniela , he wants her , at whatever cost . The way he figures , even in spite of his health , he is entitled to the gorgeous prostitute now that he has money . Little prepares Francois , an office worker , to a life with Daniella . She is rather complicated , with a pimp named Charly , who has a different plan for her and the man who has paid for her services . Charly enters their lives and everything changes , as Daniella's loyalties are put to a test . The best reason for watching this film is Monica Bellucci , an actress with a lovely face and figure . The spectator becomes riveted to the time she is on the screen . Bernard Campan is the deadpan Francois , a man whose will is put to a test when he gets more than what he bargained for . Gerard Depardieu , a man who owes his career to Mr . Blier , plays the enigmatic Charly . Farida Rahouadj , is seen as the neighbor of Francois and Jean Pierre Derroussin has a pivotal role as well . " Combien tu m'aimes " is not for everyone , but true fans of Bertrand Blier will enjoy this film because of the way he provokes them into areas that are original as well as different from many filmmakers .
Drug culture	In comparison to " An Amazing Couple " , this film has a different texture , as it deals with the realities of drug addiction . The director inserts scenes from the previous film , as we get to see why things happened the way they did in the second installment of this trilogy . It is incredible to think Agnes , very nicely played by Dominique Blanc , has been able to maintain her drug problem for more than 20 years and still keep her job at the local high school where she teaches . Now we know : her husband Pascal , a detective , keeps her supplied with drugs he takes from junkies and dealers . Pascal is Agnes worst enemy because being afraid to lose her , he maintains also a double life ; not only does he not help the woman he loves , but breaks the law in the process . It is even more incredible when we see road blocks where people are checked for possible drug dealing in the school where Agnes teach and where another teacher is interrogated about the drug problem in that particular school . In many ways this film is an eye opening in knowing to what extent drugs are prevalent in today's society , be it in Europe , or the United States . Some of the material doesn't work very well . There are many unanswered questions in this whole mess . The best thing for the film are Gilbert Melki , as the detective that is willing to break the law and Dominique Blanc , as the tormented Agnes .
Merry Christmas thanks to Irving Berlin	The music of Irving Berlin , one of America's most distinguished composers of the 20th century , is at the center of this pleasant holiday film , that if one is to judge by the comments submitted to this forum , is a perennial favorite of audiences that discover this charming movie , or just go back to visit from time to time . Directed by Michael Curtiz , a versatile man ; he was at ease with drama as well as comedy , or musicals . He shows a light touch that helps make this a cherished film for movie fans of all ages . Based on material by another great team , Norman Panama , Norman Krasna and Melvin Frank , the movie is light as a feather . The film is sort of a variation on the theme , " let's put on a show " , or even , " if we stage it , they will come " , we know how it will end , but we feel good , and enjoy it even though we know the plot by heart . The main reason for watching , besides Mr . Berlin's wonderful tunes , is hearing those standard songs delivered by the likes of Bing Crosby and Rosemary Clooney , who were at the top of their careers . They had such wonderful and melodious voices , they enhance the songs they interpret . The story is just a pretext to bring together the talented principals plus Danny Kaye , Vera Ellen , Dean Jagger , and the marvelous Mary Wickes , in a film that will delight anyone , anytime , but especially at Christmas .
Perry Mason , gourmet cook	Michael Curtiz , one of the most prolific directors Hollywood had , is at the helm of this film , based on one of Erle Stanely Garner's stories , featuring Perry Mason , the famous lawyer . With a screen play by Tom Reed , this film offers a glance at some of the best players working in films in the Hollywood of the thirties . Warren William , is Perry Mason , a man who knows a lot about the law , as well as what to cook for dinner . Mr . William is at his best playing the lawyer-detective . Margaret Lindsay , is the lady at the center of the crime that Perry Mason is trying to solve . Ms . Lindsay was a beautiful actress who adds a touch of class , as well as mystery to her take on Rhoda Montaine . The rest of the cast assembled to back the principals was made up of some of the best character actors of the era . Donald Woods is seen as Carl Montaine . Clarie Dodd plays Perry's secretary Della Street . Allan Jenkins is Perry's assistant Spudsy . A little gem of a film for lovers of the genre .
Designing woman . . .	Hollywood sometimes asks a lot of the movie going public by showing something as obvious and silly as this film . I mean , this New York based , Alabama born designer , is a product of someone's imagination not dealing with reality . Would you buy anything this tacky ? I don't think so . Donna Karan or Ralph Lauren she is not . Would anyone in her right mind buy any of those ' creations ' ? I wouldn't be caught dead in one of them ! What about her past ? How conveniently to forget in New York the reasons she left the small town in the first place . Didn't she think the past was going to catch up with her ? How about marrying the son of the bitchy Candice Bergen ? I would like to know how she was going to get away from coming up clean . Well , if after all the mind stretching on one's part , one has a laugh or two , then it was well worth seeing this piece of fluff . The best thing going in the film is the presence of Reese Witherspoon . She's a born charmer and the only reason for seeing this predictable movie . The other good reason is Josh Lucas who makes a very manly Jake . He plays very well against Ms Witherspoon .
Grace's diner	Not having a clue as to when this film version of William Inge's play " Bus Stop " had been made into another film , we decided to give it a try . As it turned out , it was an actual filmed play as it was seen at the Claremont Theater in California , directed by Peter Hunt . " Bus Stop " was a success on Broadway . It boasted Kim Stanley , one of America's great actresses of the last century in the title role , and the incomparable Elaine Stritch as Grace , the owner of the roadside diner where all the action takes place . The play , directed by Harold Clurman , a pillar of the New York theater , was a smash hit . The film version that followed in 1956 starred Marilyn Monroe . This 1982 filmed version sticks closely to the original Inge play . Cherry is played with great feeling by Margot Kidder , a good actress who knew her character well and projects sincerity and charm in her approach to this woman . Tim Matheson , who should be seen more often , appears as Beau . The solid cast also included veterans of the stage and screen , Claude Akins , Pat Hingle , Joyce Van Patten , and Barry Corbin , among others . Director Peter Hunt gave a quick pace to the production and it shows by the way the audience responds to all the key moments in the play . If it happens to show in your cable network , give it a try , you will not be disappointed .
The Chinatown club	Never heard about this film , but it looked promising . The main attraction was Seann William Scott , the lead actor . As the film started and in the credits we saw two names , immediately we thought this film had been disowned by the studio as it appeared it went to DVD before its commercial release . " Stark Raving Mad " turned out to be a surprise . Sure , it could have been better , but actually , it keeps the viewer involved in all that is going on . The club in Chinatown where the action takes place is next to a bank and Ben and his partners are trying to rob it . The club owner , Don Partridge , doesn't want the noise to go too loud , but that is exactly what Ben and his men are capitalizing on because they have to use explosives in order to get to the bank . In the meantime , everything that could go wrong , happens . The wrong DJ shows for the job . There are a couple of albums that Ben wants to be played at certain times , as they are blasting the walls . Unknown to Ben , the place has been infiltrated by the FBI . Because Ben is instrumental in saving an undercover agent , he gets this man's good will . The plan is clever , but it has a lot of risks . Ultimately , the gang is able to do the job and fool Gregory , a sadist criminal , and the Chinatown gang that thinks they can get their hands in the loot . Seann William Scott makes a wonderful Ben . Mr . Scott , who has worked on comedies before , shows he knows what he is doing and at the same time shows a range that was hard to imagine he had . Tim Sharp , who plays Rikki , Ben's closest associate , has some good moments . Lou Diamond Phillips is perfectly villainous as Gregory . Adam Arkin is seen as the owner of the club in which the action takes place . Directors Drew Daywalt and David Schneider , who also collaborated on the screen play , clearly demonstrate they know how to stage the heist and both seem to be having fun with the young cast they gathered .
Painting by numbers	Michael Taav's film came out of nowhere , as I don't think this movie was ever commercially shown , at all . The director , working with his own material does wonders in presenting a film that is mysterious , sexy and gory at various stages , but it will never bore , or disappoint the curious viewer . The casting of the film is wonderful . We don't get to see much of actors of the caliber of the ones involved in this Indie often . Mr . Taav seems to be telling us there are a lot more things involved in human relations than really meet the eye . What happens at the beginning of the film in a sequence that is amazing , will ruin someone's life forever because of the action of an abusive parent . The triangle at the center of the story is thrown together by circumstances beyond their control . Will Patton does another excellent appearance as Wesley , the man obsessed with Margaret , who is married to his boss . Robert Pastorelli , RIP , was wonderful as Willie , a man who is more mysterious than what he appears on the surface . Bebe Neuwirth is Margaret the repressed wife . This actress gives one of the best performances of her career . The last scene at the abandoned house that needs a paint job is something so original , yet no American film , in recent memory , has dared to show the climax in such a " colorful " detail . Mr Taav shows he has a great talent worth waiting for his next film will be welcomed by the ones that watched this movie and hopefully a wider audience .
Doghead	Samuel , a young man who suffers from a rare brain disorder , not unlike epilepsy , is at the center of this story . He has problems when he gets bouts that makes him black out and loses all notion of time , or who he is . To complicate things , Samuel after going to a party , falls asleep in the back of a van . Little does he know he'll end up in Madrid , a city where he doesn't know anyone . Samuel finds a job in a supermarket , but he is let go after he suffers one of those spells that afflict him . At the same time , he meets a kooky girl named Consuelo who is a kindred spirit and likes Samuel from the start . Not having means to provide for himself , Samuel goes to an agency where he is hired as a helper for older people . He experiences horrible situations , as well as an excellent one with Angelito , an Alzheimer sufferer who bonds with him . While Consuelo is visiting Samuel at Angelito's , the son of the old man arrives . He doesn't like the idea of finding the girl in his father's place . This man will come back to make thing difficult to Samuel . Santi Amadeo's film was a rare find the other day when the film was shown on cable . Not having seen anything by him before , we were happily surprised by the quality of the situation and the sweetness of the main character , who in spite all that befalls him , never appear to want to take revenge on the same society that has no place for people like him . Mr . Amadeo , who wrote the screen play is a director with his heart in the right place ; he shows us a young man who has a great potential , but with a handicap who is not bitter for what life has given him . Juan Jose Ballesta , who made an impression in El Bola , does an excellent job as Samuel . Adriana Ugarte contributes to the enjoyment of the film . Veteran actor Manuel Alexandre does a fine job as Angelito , the older man who finds in Samuel a kind of love and friendship that has been lacking from his own relationship with his own son .
Friendship	The acclaimed best seller " The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas " finally comes to the screen . With a fairly accurate treatment by the director of the film , Mark Herman , the story of an innocent boy in the middle of one of the worst moments in history , offers us a view of what it was like to be in the middle of a conflict in the eyes of a lad who knew nothing about the horrors . Bruno's world , as he knew it , comes to a complete stop when he is informed he and his family will have to leave Berlin on account of his father's promotion . One can imagine how devastating it is for the little one to part with childhood mates . What Bruno didn't count on was the absence of playmates in his new surroundings . Bruno's father has been promoted and is now in charge of a labor camp , an euphemism for Auschwitz , the place where Jews were exterminated . The boy spies people behind the barbed wire dressed in what appears to be striped pajamas . Little does he know the horrors performed in that place . The only thing he notices is the strong smells and the smoke billowing into the country air . Bruno has a first hand look at one of those people when Pavel , a slave-like servant comes to help in the kitchen . One day Bruno goes near the fence of the camp where he sees a boy about his age dressed in the striped garments . They like one another right away . The only problem is Shmuel , the boy behind the fence can't get out to play with Bruno . Their friendship is put to a test when Schmuel , who is brought to replace Pavel , is caught eating a pastry . Bruno , when questioned , denies he has anything to do with it , when it was at his insistence Schmuel took the cake . The boys continue to bond at the remote corner of the compound , both on opposite sides of the partition . Bruno's mother who catches on to what is really going on in the labor camp , gets sick upon knowing the truth . The father determines it's better to send his wife and kids away to a relative to get them out of the way . Little prepares the old man to realize the fate that awaits Bruno when he and Schmuel finally device a way to play together . Mark Herman , the director , got good performances , in general , out of his English cast . Asa Butterfield who portrays Bruno does wonders as the confused boy whose loyalty to a new friend is questioned , but who ultimately does the right thing . Vera Farmiga and David Thewlis are seen as the parents . Jack Scanlon appears as Schmuel . David Hayman , Rupert Friend , Richard Johnson and Sheila Hanckock , among others , do fine work as well .
Jersey Girls	Mira Nair , the talented director of this film keeps surprising us . She gets excellent acting from the different casts in all her movies . " Hysterical Blindness " is no exception . Ms . Nair working on the screen play by Laura Cahill , and based on Ms . Cahill's own stage play , takes us to a town in New Jersey , so close to Manhattan in geography , but far away in the way these people seem to be living in another planet . Debby Miller blames her mother for whatever is wrong with her life . Her father left her when she was quite young . Her mother , Virginia , makes ends meet by working as a waitress in a local diner . Both daughter and mother have been cheated out of happiness because of the loss they have experienced . While Debby dwells on her unhappiness , Virginia seems to have adjusted quite well . Debby is a woman that is desperate to find a man . Obviously , she is quite capable to give her best into any relationship . It's sad how she goes after the one man she should have avoided in the worst way . It will be too late before she realizes the mistake she has made . Throughout the film , Debby and Beth , share their hopes and aspirations . While Beth is grounded , Debby is flighty , hoping for things she can't have . On the other hand , Virginia meets a nice man , Nick , at the diner . They begin a friendship that unfortunately is cut short by tragedy . All in all , the film final scenes tells us that Debby realizing her mistakes goes back to her roots and to her friendship with Beth . The strength in the movie is the great performances Ms . Nair gets out of the four principals . Uma Thurman is good as the Debby . Gena Rowlands , as the mother , makes an appealing Virginia , who makes us care about her . Juliette Lewis , as Beth , is also endearing . Ben Gazzara makes a short , but effective contribution as Nick , the man who finds love with Virginia . This is a film that shows Ms . Nair's talents perfectly .
Finding herself	Myra Paci's film was in many ways , a surprise because it came unexpectedly . For a young director , Ms . Paci , shows a lot of talent in the way she has constructed the film and in the performances she gets from her actors . The film presents the story of Gilda , a young woman getting over the death of her father . At the same time , it's revealed , accidentally , her father might have been involved with another woman . Her reaction is not typical , as she decides to go away to her grandparents in New York as a way to rebel against her mother . She also goes hoping to meet an actor who she has been obsessed with . Getting to know this man proves to be a let down for Gilda . This young woman feels betrayed by all the men she had loved and suddenly realizes where she belongs and returns home to make peace with her mother , who Gilda has blamed , in a way , for all that has gone wrong in her life . Susan May Pratt , is Gilda . Her performance seems effortless . Chris Noth is perfect as the egotistical Michael De Santis , the well known actor and the object of Gilda's love . Laila Robins , an extraordinary actress who works in the New York theatre extensively , brings an intelligent approach to Gilda's mother , who has also been betrayed by her husband . Mary Louise Wilson and Josef Sommer make brief appearances as Gilda's grandparents . Also , Michele Placido is seen as Giorgio .
Tabloid pictures	The present climate of gossip tabloids in this country have created the need for paparazzis . Those ubiquitous parasites seen all over the place , taking pictures of celebrities either adoringly , or at their worst , depending on the agenda of the publications they sell their pictures to . If someone is loved , we'll get to see them ad nauseam , at their best " goody-goody " selves . But if they fall out of grace , or will not cooperate with these vermin , every nasty little detail from their lives will be front page fodder for people buying those trashy magazines . This is the premise that Paul Abascal presents in " Paparazzi " . Working on Forrest Smith's screen play , the director show us how an actor , Bo Laramie is the victim of a group of photographers that follow him and his family from openings galas to daily situations that will be turned into sensational articles for the naive to read . Basically , the film is Bo's revenge on the same people that cause an accident that leaves his young son in a coma and his wife in a critical condition . In fact , most of the comments submitted to this forum have been negative . While the film doesn't show anything new , it is not as bad as some commentaries make it out to be . Cole Hunter , as the movie star , Bo Laramie , has some good moments . Dennis Farina plays the detective that comes to investigate Bo's claim about the accident . Tom Sizemore , Daniel Baldwin and Tom Hollander are seen as three of the pest photographers intent in ruining the star's life . There are two cameos by Mel Gibson , the producer of the film , and by Chris Rock , that are a surprise in that they appear out of nowhere .
Terpsichore and the Muses	Alexander Hall , the director of " Here Comes Mr . Jordan " , tried to give his old movie a new look by changing it into a musical . It must have sounded like a good idea at the times . The only problem was that this is not as charming as the model in which " Down to Earth " is based on . While the model picture seemed light and inspired , this one doesn't fare as well . In theory , Larry Parks and Rita Hayworth , would have been a match made in heaven . Both were at the top of their fame . Larry Parks was a good actor who could act and sing as well and Rita Hayworth was a joy to watch , no matter in what vehicle . Somehow , the sparks both actors should have given their fans don't materialize , perhaps because of the way it unfolds on the screen . There are some unexpected pleasures in the film , although not the unremarkable music . On the other hand , Rita Hayworth is quite good as the Muse who decides to take matters on her own and comes back to show Danny Miller how to stage his musical for the theater . Ms . Hayworth is at her most ravishing self dressed by Jean Louis and looking like the goddess she was ! Larry Parks tries to be the suave musical theater man that falls in love with his Terpsichore . The supporting cast is excellent . James Gleason , who played in the original film , here is seen as a theatrical agent . Roland Culver is the Mr . Jordan , who arranges the trip down to earth . The incomparable Edward Everett Horton is seen as the guardian angel , or Messenger 7013 , who is made to follow Terpsichore / Kitty provoking some funny situations . William Frawley plays a small part . This is a film to watch to see the gorgeous Rita Hayworth as the top of her profession .
Optical illusion	Fata Morgana , that phenomenon that occurs especially in the deserts of the world is at the center of this German film that arrived via a local cable channel . Not having a clue about it , we decided to take a chance and frankly , we were surprised by the work of its director , Simon Gross , a talented man who also contributed to the screenplay . The setting is Morocco , where Daniel and Laura , German tourists are seen taking the sights . They decide to rent a jeep to go into the majestic desert . At a gas station they meet the mysterious man who will play a key figure in what ensues . The happy trip becomes something of a nightmare because Daniel and Laura are not prepared for what this stranger has in store for them . The most vivid sequence has to be when Laura and Daniel reach the castle they see from a distance . Is it a mirage ? Is it real ? Well , nothing prepares us for the surprising outcome of the story . More intriguing is the ending in which both tourists return to the desert after having finally discovered the way to a nearby town . The menacing stranger is played with equal parts of sadism and mystery by Jean-Hughes Anglade , a French actor that has made a career portraying such creeps . The beautiful Marie Zielke is seen as Laura , and Matthias Scheighofer is the weakest of the trio with his take on Daniel . The vibrant cinematography of Peter Steuger captures in vivid detail the adventure that director Gross had in store for us . The desert has been lovingly photographed as never before . Although ultimately the film doesn't quite make it , we realize we are dealing with a filmmaker that will no doubt go far in his next films .
Dear Santa . . .	Terry Swigoff has come out with the perfect take off on the commercial side of Christmas with this tale of a raunchy Santa impersonator who is such a loser , but with his heart in the right place . Billy Bob Thornton's dialogue with the kid , an angelic Brett Kelly , is the stuff to make a parent cringe in absolute horror . We have always seen the figure of Santa as the perfect man , but never in our wildest dreams have we ever imagined anyone could be this way at all . That's why some people seeing this satire will get grossed out , while a lot of Swigoff's fans will be delighted by Willie , a down and out petty criminal who drinks too much , but always speaks his mind . Tony Cox as the elf is also very good , but this is Billy Bob's film from beginning to end . Mr . Thornton's work is always outstanding , as he has proven before , and he will continue to do so by choosing carefully the vehicles for his appearances . Brett Kelly is a little cherub . He is the perfect foil to Billy Bob Thornton , as he is the epitome of what a kid that age should be like .
Two brothers in Thailand	Oliver Hunt is a young New Yorker who is a secret writer , still living at home . When we first meet him , he is working as a dishwasher in a restaurant . He has a brother , Jake , who has been living in Thailand . Jake has left New York under the pretext of studying Thai culture , but he is really a piece of work , whoring around , indulging in drugs , Thai boxing ; he is living a life of excesses . His worrying parents relent in letting their son Oliver travel to Thailand in order to bring his debouched brother back home where he is supposed to face the music . Alas , poor Oliver is charmed by the sights around Chiang Mai , where Jake introduces him to the bar scene . Jake is a nasty sort who hasn't exactly endeared himself to the locals . They see in him a detestable person who has overstayed his welcome among the easy going locals . Oliver falls hard for the beautiful Lek , a bar hostess that introduces the naive man into pleasures he hasn't known . Lek , who is loved by a local musician , who will come between her and Jake , a situation that will be fatal in the end . " The Elephant King " , written and directed by Seth Grossman , was a rare find . It examines the lives of the brothers in an unfamiliar locale . Mr . Grossman presents a credible story about the siblings that are so different , yet so much alike . By taking the action to Thailand , he introduces another layer of cultural differences that plays well in what he is trying to say . Tate Ellington appears as the shy Oliver in an understated performance . The more flamboyant Jonno Roberts ' Jake shows a young man who has gone beyond his capabilities and has stepped in too many toes . Mr . Roberts is also an asset . The lovely Florence Faivre is the object of both brothers desires . Ellen Burstyn is seen briefly in her usual fine style as the Hunt brothers ' mother . Josef Sommer doesn't have much to do . Mr . Grossman promises to be a director with talent and who , no doubt , will be around for quite a while , judging by what he was able to create in this film .
Kate Soffel	Kate Soffel , the wife of the Allegheny County jail warden , is a woman whose married life appears to be lacking the warmth and love that might have brought her together with Peter Soffel , in the first place . When we first meet her , she appears weak , recovering from an unknown ailment . She is willing to continue her Christian work , distributing bibles to the inmates in her husband's jail . She gets interested in Ed Biddle , a handsome young criminal who is serving time , together with his brother , Jack . It's easy to see why this meek and somewhat shy woman falls deeply in love with the prisoner . He is what her husband is not . When Ed Biddle asks her to help them escape , she is happy to comply . In her mind , Ed represents freedom from her dull life . Kate , who appears to be a loving mother , doesn't mind throwing all away when she falls in love . Nothing goes right as the plan is put in practice . Kate , Ed and Jack are doomed from the start ; in the few days she spends time with her new lover , Kate finds a bliss she never knew . She throws away all her responsibilities aside to go with the brothers into an unknown territory , hoping to escape to Canada . In the end , Kate is alone as she must pay for her actions . Gillian Armstrong , a feminist director , seems attracted to strong female characters , as it's the case in this picture . This is a story based on a true incident in the Pittsburgh of the beginning of the 20th Century . Although Ms . Armstrong has succeeded in presenting interesting women , her Kate Soffel , seems the right person to bring to the screen since she has a personality that recalls other strong women the director has examined before . Diane Keaton , an actress whose choice of roles in comedies , and light fare , have been her trademark , here shows a range most viewers didn't know she had . As Mrs . Soffel , she is full of lust and a passion that only a criminal , Ed Biddle , awakens in her . Ms . Keaton's work is the best excuse to see the film . Mel Gibson is effective as the criminal Ed Biddle in one of his rare dramatic roles . Matthew Modine gives a restrained performance . Edward Herrmann , Trini Alvarado , Jennifer Dundas , Terry O'Quinn , Maury Chaykin , are seen among the supporting roles . " Mrs . Soffel " came and went without much fanfare , but it's worth a look because of the powerful combination of Gillian Armstrong and Diane Keaton and the interesting cinematography by Russell Boyd .
The red tunnel	Gaspar Noe's admiration for the late Stanley Kubrik is evident in most of this film . In fact , what is even more surprising is that a movie has been created from such thin material . This is a film that depends on shocking its audience , as proven by the opening sequences . The credits are nightmarish , as are the scenes that show unrestrained violence perpetuated on the main characters . By confusing the spectator , Mr . Noe creates a suspense , as we all want to know what was the origin of such behavior . Most of this violence , I found , is a turnoff . Mr . Noe is very clever in telling the story from the present to the past , as it certainly would have been a complete let down to see it in a chronological manner . If the director would have decided to do it differently , half of the theatre would have emptied because the last sections of the film are totally boring . Did he need to have the scene in the Metro at all ? How about the tunnel sequence ? Did Mr . Noe have a need to show us in vivid detail what happens to a woman in a situation such as he presents it ? Is it necessary to show Vincent Cassel with his ' thang ' in full display ? How about the disappearing genitalia in the leather bar ? For that matter , how about the naked old man at the beginning of the story ? The advice to any would-be-swingers is : carry enough cash for a taxi , just in case the party sucks big time . Oh , and never go into an underpass anywhere in the world late at night , let alone a red tunnel .
Rain man goes ice fishing in Minnesota	Allan Mindell , making his film debut , takes us to a part of the country that seem to be in a permanent winter state . The screen play by Richard Murphy places the story in Milwaukee . We are introduced to Albert , an autistic young man and his over protective mother , Edna . Albert is a champion ice fisher who seems to have a knack for winning tournaments that pay a lot of money . As it's the case with autistic persons , they might appear to be helpless in some areas , but they can be brilliant in others . Albert has a problem : there are a few people who would love to steal his money ! We first meet Tuey and her brother , white trash people from the South , who see a good scam whenever they find one . Tuey passes herself as a reporter interested in interviewing Albert . She is pathetic interviewer , but the young man is too gullible to see it . Edna is killed in a hit and run accident that leaves Albert alone to fend for himself . In addition to Tuey , another low life character appears in the picture , Jerry , who claims he is Albert's real father . There is also a kind man , Sean McNally , who owns a store . Albert likes to make copies of 20 dollar bills in Sean's Xerox machine . Tuey , at the end is the only decent person of the whole lot as she realizes the kindness of Albert in trying to help her brother Stan . Jerry , on the other hand is the one that actually seems to be the successful one in getting rich . In an ironic twist at the end , we see how Albert , the mentally challenged young man , gets the last laugh ! The director gets good performances of this multi talented cast . Best of all is Alison Folland as Tuey , who redeems herself at the end . Tom Garity also is charming as Albert who seems to inhabit his own world . Randy Quaid is perfect as the oily Jerry . Debra Monk and Bruce Dern are seen briefly as Edan and Sean . Mr . Mindell will probably do well in the future as he shows he has a good understanding in what make these characters unique .
Femme fatale	John Cromwell was a director that aimed to please , as demonstrated by the films he left behind . " Dead Reckoning " is a film that is satisfying while one is watching it , but later on , in retrospect , we question a lot of what we have seen as the plot doesn't make sense in many ways . All the elements of the Film Noir genre can be found in it . We have a war hero Rip , who is investigating the disappearance of his buddy , who he watches running away from a train in order not to testify with him in Washington . The action takes us to a Southern coastal town , where supposedly , the escapee has gone to . Little prepares Rip to find his friend burned to death in the morgue . Thus begins a tale of deception that has lots of interesting twists . The film benefits from its two stars , who play a game that on the surface seems to be one thing , and with a surprising twist at the end , turns out to be something else . Humphrey Bogart excelled in movies like this . He is tough , but he has time to have a great rapport with Dusty , the former singer at the local night club . Lisabeth Scott plays the siren with an air of mystery . It comes as a big surprise what happens at the end . Morris Carnovsky , a great theater actor of the time , is Martinelli , the crooked owner of the night club . Also a young William Prince plays the man who ran away to find a tragic fate by doing so .
Why bother remaking this film ?	As it was , the original Oceans 11 , wasn't a masterpiece of filmmaking ! Whatever was in Mr . Soderberg's mind in taking this project , is beyond comprehension . The plot is ridiculous , to put it mildly . It is very convoluted and just to think this gang could carry it off just goes to show us the arrogance not only of the director , but the whole production company involved with this mess . Are we the only ones to think that Brad Pitt is a bad actor ? He just doesn't register an emotion in this film , at all ! What about that other over-rated star , turned producer , actor , screenwriter , Matt Damon ? He is just beyond help . These 2 actors could improve a lot by taking serious acting classes before they even venture out again . Their characters are phoneys , as they're portrayed by these 2 on screen . The only one that shines in this film is George Clooney . He is an actor with a terrific screen presence and a natural , in comparison with the rest of the others . His scenes with Julia Roberts show a rare chemistry and we believe in their past and present involvement . The rest of the cast is just blah . Why doesn't Hollywood use writers and directors who can give us original stories with plots that can be believed instead of remaking films that had their moment and don't merit a remake in any way , shape , or form . Amen !
How deep was my valley	Ida Lupino was one of the best screen actresses of her generation . If one should doubt it , take one look at " Deep Valley " , which was filmed when she was about 32 years old . Ms . Lupino transforms herself into a much younger woman , who makes the viewer believe she is a girl in her late teens , or early twenties . Jean Negulesco had a lot to do with the good work he extracted from his players . The film , which is rarely seen these days , presents us with a dysfunctional family living in an isolated farm in California . Libby , the young daughter of the family is seen tending to her sick mother who is bedridden ; her father doesn't seem to talk to the mother , leaving Libby in a difficult position . To make matters worse , Libby suffers from stuttering and from shyness , as she feels trapped into duty and not having the same things other girls , her age , can do . " Deep Valley " is a film that presents a plausible romance between Libby and Barry , a convict working on the road construction nearby . Also , Jeff Barker , one of the men from the highway project falls for the young woman's beauty . Things become entangled as Libby finds the escaped man , Barry , and they fall in love . The lovers are doomed from the start , as one realizes Libby and Barry have no chance in being together . What Libby feels for Barry makes her speech problem go away as she regains a confidence she never had . The film is worth a look because of Ida Lupino . As Libby , she makes this girl come alive without ever striking a wrong note . Dane Clark is also quite good as Barry , the convict . Wayne Morris plays Jeff Barker , the man that loves Libby , but he realizes she doesn't care for him . Fay Bainter and Henry Hill play the older Sauls . The film is helped by the musical score of Max Steiner and the black and white cinematography created by Ted McCord .
Andy loves them all	The Andy Hardy series , based on Vivien R . Bretherton's stories , proved to be a favorite of the public at the time they came out . It was a different and innocent America . These were the teen agers of that era , and their world , as Hollywood interpreted it . This picture was directed by George B . Seitz . Andy loves Polly , but when a friend asks him to take care of the beautiful Cynthia , he complies . Enter the girl-next-door , Betsy , and the problems begin . As usual , the fatherly figure of Judge James K . Hardy , is there to guide his young son into doing the right thing . In fact , Andy and his parents didn't suffer from the generation gap that became prevalent later on ; the openness of family relationships of that time is so refreshing and shows how much has been lost . It probably had to do with a loving mother , Emily , who stayed home and supervised her children . The cast is delightful . Mickey Rooney shows why he was one of the most loved actors of the time . Judy Garland is a sweet Betsy and has an opportunity to sing three songs in the film . Lewis Stone and Fay Holden as the Hardy parents , are good and solid . Cecilia Parker is sister Marian . A young Lana Turner is seen as Cynthia and finally , Ann Rutherford was perfect as Polly . A delightful comedy that about a more happy era in America .
Fatal beauty .	As if by coincidence , we had watched " La fille coupee en deux " , directed by Claude Chabrol , last night , and lo and behold , this earlier Hollywood version of the same story was shown the following night on cable . This is the third version of the same story , the other came out in Milos Forman's " Ragtime " , that we have seen about the life of Evelyn Nesbit , a beautiful woman , who at the turn of the twentieth century found herself at the center of a love triangle . That the real Ms . Nesbit was an adviser of this 1955 Hollywood version , lends one to believe the screenplay was tilted to show her in a better light , as is the case with this film . Stanford White , a famous New York architect , builder , among other things of the Washington Square Arch , was a man who loved beauty wherever he saw it . At the time when one first meets him , he was forty eight years old . Married to Elizabeth , who was his same age , he is left alone as Mrs . White departs for Baden-Baden because of her arthritis . This man falls for the gorgeous Evelyn Nesbit , a poor young woman , whose main talent was her beauty . Evelyn also breaks young Harry Kendall Thaw's heart . This young man about town , a rich heir to a large fortune , wanted Evelyn , at all costs . His passion was his downfall . His infatuation with the ravishing beauty proved to be fatal . Harry's mother had a lot at stake , as she tried everything to get his son away from the woman she perceived to be a threat to her son's well being . Joan Collins , who was at the height of her beauty , plays Evelyn . It was one of her earlier screen appearances , although not her first . Her take of Evelyn , perhaps influenced by the real Ms . Nesbit , shows us a naive young woman who falls prey to forces that were bigger than her . There was also a sexual undercurrent in the story , something that in those days was not dealt with reality . Ray Milland and Farley Granger play Stanford White and Harry Thaw , respectively . A good supporting cast was assembled for the picture . Luther Adler , Cornelia Otis Skinner , Glenda Farrell , Gail Robbins , and Phillip Reed , among others , are seen in the background . The film was directed by Richard Fleischer and based on the screenplay by Charles Brackett , long associated with Billy Wilder , and Walter Reisch . Milton Krasner's cinematography contributed to make this a better film .
Unemployment line	John Woo's casting for this film is what probably didn't make it work out . Ben Affleck , as an action hero registers nothing ! Maybe with another actor this movie would have fared better . Other than that , the film has a lot of elements from other films . We know from beginning to end how it's going to end . It's a shame that the story by Phillip K . Dick doesn't go anywhere . It was obvious a vehicle for its star . Aaron Eckhart fares much better than Ben Affleck . There is no chemistry between Uma Thurman and Affleck . The chase scenes at the end in the Seattle area are about the best things , but that too , has been done before . Watch it at your risk .
My kingdom for the woman I love !	As biopic films go , this one has taken a lot of liberties in order to produce an entertainment that will be appreciated by people that didn't know many of the details which surrounded the abdication of the heir of the English throne in the 1930s . Written by Sarah Williams and directed by without much excitement by Dave Moore , we are given an account of what went on behind the scenes in one of the most remarkable stories of the last century . Edward , who would have been the king of England after the death of his father , has to do some reckoning about whether to give up the reins to the empire in order to marry the woman who conquered his heart . This was one of the most romantic episodes involving a royal house in Europe in the last century . Duty , honor , something that is a natural for the monarchy of that country , was a burden Edward was not ready to accept because it excluded the twice-divorced Wallis Simpson , who he fell in love with and put him at odds with his family and the English establishment , something unheard of in those days . The result was his abdication and a life without his family , who protocol dictated to stay away from him after the scandal . Edward and Wallis lived the jet set life of the few privileged people of the times after he resigned the right to be crowned king . The film only deals with the events that led to that break . Joely Richardson shows an uncanny resemblance to Wallis Simpson , a woman with her own style who made headlines and who appeared to have lived a fulfilled life next to the man who gave up everything for her . Stephen Campbell Moore is seen as Edward . Mr . Campbell Moore makes a good impression as this somewhat rash young man who couldn't care anything about the power his position would have meant for him . He was an unselfish man who threw everything away for love . Mr . Moore got interesting performances from the supporting cast , especially Richard Johnson , as Stanley Baldwin , the man who opposed the marriage from the start . David Calder is seen as Winston Churchill , who proved to be a true friend to the troubled monarch . The excellent Margaret Tyzak , who has little to do , appears as a proud Queen Mary . This film , although far from accurate , shows a page of history from the not too distant past in which we are shown a different situation of the royal family of England , something that in today's standards wouldn't have occurred at all .
Ghost of Halloween	Frank LaLoggia's " Lady's in White " is a film that is seen from a young boy's perspective . The director , who also wrote the screen , play takes us back to Willowpoint Heights , a small town with a dark past . As the film opens , the grown up Frankie Scarlatti returns for a visit . He is a well known novelist who decides to stop at the local cemetery before doing anything else . In fact , that cemetery holds the key to the mystery that happened years ago , in which Frankie , was the principal player . The film reverts to a Halloween day , years ago , in which young Frankie first meets the evil person that is committing the horrendous crimes in the area . Only young children are murdered . During a prank , two of Frankie's friends lock him that night in a cloakroom . He sees the ghost of a young girl that has been a victim , years ago . Also , he gets to see a person enter the room to leave things in a hiding place . Those things , Frankie discovers , later on , belong to the children that were murdered in the town . Lucas Haas , who started in films as a young boy , was an unusual presence in his early appearances . His contribution to the film is one of the best things in it . Len Cariou , Alex Rocco , Katherine Helmond , Jason Presson , are seen among the supporting players . " Lady in White " will please young minds who will watch the film without comparing it to other better made films of this genre .
Proof of love	People living intense love relationships are sometimes asked to test the way they feel . Sometimes , the things they ask of one another can be far fetched and will carry dire consequences , as it's the case with Arturo and Carmen , a young Mexican couple having a passionate love affair . Carmen is jealous of a blonde student that she feels has her eyes set on taking Arturo away from her . Carmen dares Arturo to get in her house late one night and write how much he loves with his own blood on her bathroom mirror . Later , the two lovers who are fascinated with morbid aspects of " Romeo and Juliette " , decide as another proof of their love to take sleeping pills . The last test comes in as Arturo seduces the blonde to a couples ' motel and Carmen also takes a young man who has been after her . Arturo and Carmen finally prove to one another how deep is their love . Jorge Prior , the director of this 1994 Mexican film shows originality in the way he presents this cautionary tale about the extremes some people go when they are blinded by love and the desire of eliminate the world around them . This black comedy was an unexpected surprise . Mr . Prior shows he has an eye for this type of comedies . Damian Bichir , a Mexican actor who is always interesting to watch , does an convincing job as Arturo , a young man so in love , he can't see what the consequence of his actions will lead him into . Claudia Ramirez is also good as Carmen , the fickle girl who wants Arturo about everything and will do all in her power to eliminate whatever obstacle that takes her away from her man . Lorena Herrera and Cesar Bono are seen in minor roles .
" We'll always have Bloomingdale's "	" Serendipity " was a film I missed when it was originally released . Since there was nothing else playing the other night , I decided to take a look at it . The movie is pure sugar , so , diabetics , watch out ! Spoilers herein . The screen play is a combination of styles we've seen before . Marc Klein has an ear for the way New Yorkers talk , but he seems to have been influenced by other movies of this genre that have been done better and with more flair . Peter Chelsom's direction doesn't add anything to the story either . The idea that this pair that fates conjures to bring together at Bloomingdale's at the height of the Christmas shopping season , is a pleasant one , but just to think that these two newly discovered ' soul mates ' will make it against all probabilities just by sharing some wicked looking desserts at Serendipity 3 , is preposterous . I'm not saying it can't happen , but it's extremely rare to have a Sara so coy and so silly to think she wouldn't give Jonathan her phone number right away . It's not every day one finds a hunk like him to let the opportunity go by , acting the way she does . I mean , she should have called a limo and taken him home immediately , why wait ? John Cusack has done better work than in this film . Kate Beckingsale is an actress that is not easy to classify , but in this film she is not shown at her best . This is not an unpleasant film to watch if one doesn't expect too much from it .
My old Kentucky home	Drew Baylor , the young athletic shoe designer , comes up with an idea of a sneaker that will revolutionize the industry . Well , sadly to say , his invention is like the Edsel of the Spasmodica Shoe Company ! His boss reminds Drew how his design is responsible for the almost one billion dollars the company stands to lose . Sad and dejected , Drew contemplates suicide ; what could be worse than feeling the derision of his co-workers and his stand in the industry ? As he is preparing to put an end to his life , the phone rings and it's his sister announcing their father has died while on a family visit to relatives in Kentucky . Drew must go to take care of the arrangements for the father's funeral . Along the way , he meets on the red-eye flight a chatty flight attendant , Claire , that will be connected to him in ways he didn't expect . His relatives prove to be too much for Drew , who didn't count in seeing so many of his kin in one place . His family has not forgiven the fact that the father married a California woman and moved there . After all , these are proud people that love their life in Kentucky . Things get complicated as Drew and the rest of his family wants to have the old man cremated , something the family in Kentucky looks down upon . One relative takes Drew to the plot in the cemetery that has been reserved for that side of the Baylors . Drew decides to go on with the plans . It's because of the kindness and love he receives from all these unknown relatives that he has a change of heart and decides to comply with their wishes , but alas , it's a bit too late as the cremation went through . When Claire appears in Elizabethtown , whatever they felt on that first meeting has changed . Claire is a beautiful young woman who likes Drew for what he is . Claire is intrigued by why hasn't Drew made a cross-country trip . She has a plan for him to see the beauty of the country in its back roads and real people , which is what he does on his way back home . By the time he reaches Oregon , he will be a changed man . Cameron Crowe's " Elizabethtown " appears to be a film that has captivated audiences , judging by the positive commentaries in this forum . The fact remains , this film " borrows " from other Crowe's films incorporating them into this narrative . The film is in part a road film , most notably the last sequences in the movie that involves Drew's trip throughout the land . Orlando Bloom seemed a strange choice for Drew . His accent is perfect and he is totally believable as this man that has to come to terms with the death of a father and a failure in his designing career . Mr . Bloom makes a good contribution to the film . Kirsten Dunst plays Claire . At first she is a bit annoying and pushy . It's clear from the start she really likes the taciturn Drew , who doesn't want to get too involved with her . Susan Sarandon has only a few scenes . Her tap dancing at the memorial service for her husband is hilarious . Although this is not one of the best films of Cameron Crowe , it is by no means a disappointment . John Toll's cinematography shows the heart of the country and its uncomplicated folk at their best .
Memphis blues	This is a rare movie in which black performers were given the recognition that Hollywood denied them . Alan Reisner directed a film about the fictionalized life of one American original , W . C . Handy , a composer whose legacy in our popular culture was never acknowledged . It would take years before black actors would be seen in mainstream films . Will Handy was a multi talented man whose humble origins we see as the film opens . His father , Rev . Charles Handy , is a preacher in a black church in Memphis . It's clear from the start the boy is destined for greatness , but his father clashes with him when he finds a job working at the local club that is frequented by characters , that in the Reverend's estimation , are loafers and sinners . With the help of a singer , Gogo Germaine , Handy's music becomes popular . His long time girlfriend , the sweet Elizabeth , sees in Gogo a rival who will take him away . It is through the love of his mother and when Elizabeth realizes the talent of Will Handy , that everything seems to come together . Nat " King " Cole plays the title role . Mr . Cole was one of our best interpreters of the standard repertoire of his time . He had such a clear and elegant diction that no one came close to him in delivering a song . His acting is rustic , but that is expected from a singer turned actor . Eartha Kitt is one of the best things in the film . She is Gogo Germaine , full of passion and sex appeal . The sweet and young Ruby Dee appears as Elizabeth , the woman who loved Will Handy . Juano Hernandez , another talent who never got a big break in the movies , is Rev . Handy , the upright minister who wanted his son to follow him in the church . Pearl Bailey , Mahalia Jackson , Cab Calloway , Ella Fitzgerald , Billy Preston , and the rest of the cast are fine in their roles . Some of the great music of W . C . Handy is heard in the soundtrack of the film performed with great style and elegance .
They'll always have Paris	Julie Delpy , the talented actress of " 2 Days in Paris " surprises with this tale of a pair of lovers at a crucial moment of their relationship . Ms . Delpy , who wrote and directed the film shows how well she has learned the lessons of being in front of the camera . The end result is a delightful film that owes a lot to previous films where she has appeared . Throughout the movie one felt the presence of Richard Linkletter , who directed her in two films that bear some resemblance to this one , and Woody Allen , in the way Ms . Delpy presents the character of Jack , her lover of two years . Jack , a New York neurotic , feels out of his usual turf . In a way , he is totally overwhelmed by the life Marion , his girlfriend , has left behind for a life in America . Julie Delpy plays Marion wearing thick black eyeglasses that hide her beautiful face in a way we are not used to see her in movies . She plays the straight part against the goofy Jack of Adam Goldberg . Mr . Goldberg has some good moments when he is at his nastiest , like with the group of tourists he misdirects in order to get ahead of them in the taxi queue . One hopes Ms . Delpy will come with another film in a not too distant future for she shows a natural ability to set a pleasant story in an enjoyable way .
Surviving a love affair .	Alfonso Albacete and David Menkes , the directors of this movie , want us to believe that a gay man can live a life of a straight person if only he meets the right woman , which seems to be the point of this comedy . " Sobrevivire " , while not a horrible film , by any means , answers its own question when at the end , the young man can't resist the attraction of another man , leaving the unhappy woman to deal with her new reality by herself . Marga , the young woman at the center of this picture sees her whole life change when Roberto , the love of her life , falls asleep at the wheel killing himself and almost causing her death . To make matters worse , Marga loses a nice job because her friend , who is having an affair with one of the bosses , wants her out of the picture . What's a beautiful woman of no means to do ? Open a video rental place ! Marga meets Inaqui one day at the video store she is now running . It's obvious he likes her too , but little prepares us to realize that Inaqui has another life , a gay one , at that . He likes Marga , and she feels the attraction too . They become lovers until one day Inaqui sees his former boyfriend and goes back to his old life . The story is hard to believe . Emma Suarez is a beautiful woman . Unfortunately , this film doesn't do anything for her . Juan Diego Botto , another handsome actor , does whatever he can , in a role that sounds fake from beginning to end .
Walking the tight rope	When we last saw Oliverio , he was a man that appeared to be lost when he finds himself alone , as Ana , the woman he really cared for , decides to go to Spain , without even thinking about him . Oliverio , as we meet him in this new sequel , goes away from Argentina and settles in Spain . In a way , this film was probably director Eusebio Subiela's comment on how he looked at the economic crisis he saw in his own country during those dark days in which a lot of people decided to go and look for a better life abroad . The movie , doesn't bear much resemblance with the previous one . The only thing that doesn't want to leave Oliverio is the figure of Death that follows him everywhere . The poetry of the previous film is not evident as much in this new movie , but at the same time , it doesn't have that fatalistic view because it is more positive than the previous one in that , at last , Oliverio , finds true love with a circus performer who dares him to take chances , the same way she does , when she performs on the high wire . Dario Grandinetti is a frequent collaborator of Mr . Subiela . They both are attuned to the work the director wants to extract from his actors . Ariadna Gil is seen as Alejandra , the girl who steals Oliverio's heart . Nacha Guevara and Sandra Ballesteros return again as Death and Ana . Although this is not one of Subiela's best pictures , it still has some good elements that will not disappoint his fans .
A boy's best friend : his dog !	We stumbled into " Far from Home " by chance . It proved to be a solid entertaining way to spend almost an hour and a half in good company . Phillip Borsos , the director , has to be congratulated for capturing this adventure that shows a boy surviving some of the worst conditions when he is shipwrecked . We would recommend this film to families with children because it shows how a boy forms a bond with his beloved dog under the worst possible circumstances . The beauty of British Columbia and its rugged scenery serve as the background to this story . A close knit family living in a rural area and loving the outdoors are at the center . When Yellow , the dog that appears at the McCormicks , Katherine and John , the parents , appear reluctant in keeping it . Angus , the teen ager son , sees more than his parents and accepts the challenge , and responsibility in keeping Yellow in check . When Angus and his father take to the water in John's medium sized vessel , they bring Yellow as well . They encounter rough seas and the ship capsizes . John hangs to the boat , but Angus is separated from his dad . What follows is a parents ' worst nightmare . Every effort is made to look for the boy . It takes many days to locate Angus and when he is going to be rescued by a helicopter from the top of a tree that serves as a bridge , Yellow , his beloved dog , loses his balance and falls into a river below . Angus is saddened by the lost of Yellow , but deep inside , he never loses faith . We watch him whistling for the dog , who has responded to the signal before . Throughout the ordeal Angus never loses hope of being reunited with Yellow . Jesse Bradford , makes a great impression as the resourceful Angus . Bruce Davison and Mimi Rogers are seen as the parents . Ultimately , the trainers of Dakotah , the Yellow dog in the picture , must be congratulated for their skill in making this amazing dog perform some excellent work and its inter action with Jesse Bradford . A film for all ages , but mostly for young children thanks to Phillip Borsos .
When Charles met Celia	Independent film making is to be commended because it brings a different view about things that are so over blown by mainstream Hollywood fare . That said , it's completely incomprehensible the negative comments generated by " Passionada " . This film , directed with style by Dan Ireland , deserves better than what has been written in IMDb . Most of the venom directed to " Passionada " seems to be about its authenticity and the ethnicity of the characters being misrepresented by the cast assembled . Those complaints are baseless . Do the same people that put it down have anything to say when they watch other mainstream films that have no logic at all ? I don't think so . Lighten up , people it's only a film that aims at entertaining its viewers . " Passionada " is a small film about loss and redemption told in cinematic terms by a cast that plays well together . Jason Isaacs , the card sharpie Charles Beck , finds love with the dark and sultry Celia Amonte , played by Sofia Milos . Their love grows in spite of all what Charles hides from his past . Lupe Ontiveros , an excellent actress , doesn't have much to do in the film , but then it's not her story we are watching . Emmy Rossum is the rebel daughter . Seymour Cassel and Theresa Russell are fine in their small roles . The town of New Bedford , Massachussets , serves as the perfect background for this romantic comedy .
Two sisters and werewolves	John Fawcett , the director of " Ginger Snaps " , presents a horror film that shows a lot of originality . Instead of falling into the clichs of the genre , he avoids all the worst of this type of movies by creating an surreal world that scares the viewer in ways no other film in recent memory does . The tight screen play by Mr . Fawcett and Karen Walton works well on the screen . Best of all , and the main reason for watching " Ginger Snaps " is the work of the two principals , Emily Perkins and Katharine Isabelle , who play Brigitte and Ginger , respectively . Both actress add a lot to the film . There's never a false move from either one of these young actresses , who are clearly on their way to do bigger and better things , as they demonstrate in the film . The film has enough gore for this , and another film . The werewolves have a field day at the lonely fort where most of the action takes place . " Ginger Snaps " is recommended for a mature audience since there are some graphic scenes that will stay forever with younger , and more impressionable minds . Highly recommended for fans of horror movies !
It's a wonderful Bing Crosby ( helped by Frank Capra )	" Here Comes the Groom " was a surprise when it was shown by TCM recently . This film brings together two talented men , Frank Capra and Bing Crosby . This light comedy , with some music , is seldom seen these days , and it's a shame . Although not one of the best films of the director , the film is entertaining and fun to watch . The great achievement of Mr . Capra was the way he brought together a fabulous cast that work well together . Bing Crosby shows why he was one of the best performers of his time . He is always charming and generous to his fellow players . The other surprise in the film is Jane Wyman . Playing a light role she is delightfully playful as the woman who has found a rich man who wants to make her his wife , but she is still in love with the absent Pete Garvey , who just happens to reappear with two cute war orphans that immediately " adopt " her as their mother . The other principals , Franchot Tone and Alexis Smith , are in terrific form . Ms . Smith , especially , is a delight to watch . It's a shame Hollywood didn't give her better vehicles in which to shine . Mr . Tone is suave as Wilbur Stanley , the millionaire who finds out in the worst way , his bride-to-be is in love with another man . Another coup of Mr . Capra is the way he brings a lot of those excellent character actors that had worked with him in other films . Such is the case with Charles Lane , H . B . Warner , Charlest Halton , among others . There is a nice sequence that takes place in the plane that is bringing Pete back to America in which he sings a number with Phil Harris , Frank Fontaine , and Dorothy Lamour . Also in the early part of the film we saw a young and beautiful Anna Maria Alberghetti singing . " Here Comes the Groom " shows why Frank Capra was one of the best directors , and it also helped that he had Bing Crosby on board .
Stressed out	No wonder Charlie , the man at the center of the film is suffering from the pressures of his job . He has too many things to worry about and all his problems affects his stomach functions producing funny noises at the worst moments . What's an undercover man to do ? He gets involved more deeply into trying to do a decent job and in the process , he falls in love with the woman who understands what has to be done to relieve his symptoms . Erik Blakeney has written and directed a film that should have been seen by a wider audience , yet , this movie came and went without fanfare . It deserved a better fate because of the funny screen play Mr . Blakeney created and the wonderful cast that was gathered for the picture . The problem seems to have been in the marketing . This is clearly not a Sandra Bullock vehicle at all ! Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt are about the best thing going for the movie . Liam Neeson's Charlie is one of the funniest roles he has done in his career . Mr . Neeson tends to gravitate toward more dramatic fare , but as Charlie , he proves he is an accomplished comedian . The same goes for Oliver Platt who plays a bad guy interested in domestic activities such as cleaning a messy kitchen , or even thinking about a life in Italy growing tomatoes . The minor roles are equally good . Jose Zuniga and Micahel DeLorenzo are hilarious as a pair of gay drug dealers . Sandra Bullock doesn't get as many opportunities in the movie , but she is seen in the pivotal role of Judy . The group therapy sessions involving Charlie and other law enforcing people are fun to watch . Erik Blakeney shows he can do good work if only he could have the right studio people behind him .
Those airmen in their flying machines	Otto Preminger was perhaps honing his skills as a director , because this film seems to be a dress rehearsal for his greatest achievement , " Anatomy of a Murder " , which is a classic of the courtroom drama genre . The movie is interesting in that it presents a man of honor , Billy Mitchell , who not only was an aviation pioneer , but a visionary that pointed out to the future in uncanny ways . He realized that wars were going to be fought in the air , and that soon the world would shrink thanks to faster planes than the primitive two engine jobs he was flying during WWI . Billy Mitchell was an outcast , rejected by the same people that were too obtuse to realize the upcoming revolution in aeronautics . In trying to prove a point , Billy is found guilty and tried for disobeying orders . It's a sad story in which a highly developed mind , like Billy's has to contend with the ignorance of his peers . Testimony from other leading figures of the time , such as Eddie Rickenbacker , and others speak volumes about Mitchell's incredible insight on the new technology and how vulnerable America was from air raids by enemies . Gary Cooper's approach to the role doesn't clarify much about the real life Mitchell . He is not quite as effective as in many of his most outstanding films . Somehow we don't get any passion out of his character , where perhaps another actor would have run away with the role . Mr . Cooper's take on Mitchell , or perhaps Otto Preminger's direction , doesn't shed much insight in the character . The best thing in the movie is Rod Steiger as Allan Gullion , who is brought to the trial to help the main prosecution officer . He steals the picture in his short time in front of the camera . Mr Steiger brings a different concept to this officer ; he stands out against all the other people around him . What a presence he had ! In contrast with Mr . Cooper's stoic presence , Mr . Steiger was ready to smolder the screen if given the chance . The rest of the cast is outstanding . Charles Bickford , Ralph Bellamy , Elizabeth Montgomery , Jack Lord , James Daly , Fred Clark , among others , enhance this movie . The only problem with the copy I saw , is the horrible coloring that tends to give a fading images . This is a film in need of restoration .
Strike up the band !	Eddie Martin has a problem . He is a man of ambition , but being broke doesn't help him bring back the band he , and Damon Dillingham , put together to play at one of the best rooms in Manhattan . What to do ? Eddie is responsible for getting to the Rogers , a well to do family from another state to advance him money for the musical education of their talented , and beautiful , daughter , Ann . Things get complicated when Ann , who boards a train for New York , meets the handsome and debonair Damon Dillingham , who falls for the beautiful young woman the moment he sees her . Once Ann is New York , Eddie has Damon impersonate the great classical professor Blanchetti to dupe Ann . The talented Ann , wants to sing popular music and she gets her wish when she auditions for the Damon's band engagement in an exclusive club . It's at this point where all things are solved . John Auer directed this RKO comedy with music showing he knew what he was doing . The best thing in the film is Frances Langford , whose beautiful voice and charming screen presence assured a good time for all her fans . Ralph Edwards , as the scheming Eddie is also fine in a delightful comic turn . Phillip Terry's good looks plays well opposite Ms . Langford . June Clayworth , Mabel Paige , Grady Sutton are seen in supporting roles . Gene Krupa and his wonderful orchestra are also seen in the picture in a couple of musical numbers .
It happened in Barcelona	This film , which according to IMDb appears to have been made for television , was shown in a cable network not long ago . This 1992 movie was directed by Gary Nelson , and while not a masterpiece of the thriller genre , it is not without its own merits . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you should stop reading . The main attraction for watching this movie was the late Robert Urich . Mr . Urich was a personable performer , who was always good to watch . In the film he plays and FBI agent that suffers a tragic experience in his life with a sting gone wrong , where a young child is killed by accident . Mr . Urich played Nick Sastre , a man of Catalonian parents , that is called back by his old handler at the FBI , to help with the investigation of a branch of the Spanish mafia that is trying to operate in the Los Angeles area . During a night on the town with Aldo Testi , he is shot and becomes paraplegic . In his strong will to survive , he undergoes physical therapy that shows him how to use to the best advantage the wheel chair he must use for life . The action then switches to Barcelona , the beautiful city by the Mediterranean where Nick reacquaints himself with Aldo Testi , the bad guy he is trying to expose . We meet an amazing array of characters that are part of a new world for Nick . In a way , it's a big stretch of the imagination that Nick will survive the adventure because of his condition , but we go along for the ride , making excuses for what we know it's almost impossible . Aside from Mr . Urich , Dakin Matthews plays the FBI agent in charge of the operation . David Ryall makes a mean Aldo Testi . There are good appearances by some notable Spanish cinema stars . Assumpta Serna plays the mysterious countess in Aldo Testi's employment . Ariadna Gil is seen as the woman who makes a notable change in Nick's life .
Tense time at Ozzie and Harriet's	The adaptation to the screen of Joseph Hayes ' play by Mr . Hayes , himself , is given an excellent treatment by William Wyler , one of the great film directors of all times . The play was claustrophobic ; there is little to be done in opening it and at times it feels as though we are in the theater watching the drama unfolds . Instead of detracting from it , this atmosphere contributes to the drama we are watching . This film juxtaposes good and evil . We have the Hilliard household , which could be the set from anyone of the sitcoms of late 50s TV . There is the father figure , the decent Dan who is happily married to Eleonor and they have two children that seem to be their pride and joy . Into this house a trio of escaped convicts arrive ; they are ruthless . Led by Glenn Griffin , these desperate men bring panic to the Hilliards , who become paralyzed by the harm they might encounter at the hands of the criminals . This film is a tribute to the great acting of Humphrey Bogart and Frederick March . Their characters are well defined and both actors play extremely well together . Mr . March was an accomplished actor of both the theater and the screen . Mr . Bogart holds his own against his co-star in a show of wills , unrivaled in any of the films of the 50s . The cast assembled was first rate . Under Wyler's direction they give detailed performances . Martha Scott , Arthur Kennedy , Gig Young , Dewey Martin , among others , shine in this movie .
Cat and mouse	Neil Randall , a successful advertising executive , is seen at the beginning of the story talking with a colleague about a project that will be the subject of their impending meeting . Although Neil puts in a good word for his friend , he ends up being tapped to do the job because of his experience . There is something about Neil that doesn't feel right in our mind . Neil seems to be the man that has it all . He owns a beautiful home , is married to Abby , a gorgeous creature , and is the father to a cute little girl , Sophie . Abby , a promising photographer has given her ambition to be a wife and mother . As Neil and Abby prepare to spend a week-end with his boss , where he will probably be told he is a partner in the agency . We see an older woman comes to babysit with the girl . What follows then , is a nightmare Neil didn't prepare for . A demented man is in their car asking a great deal of money as ransom for Sophie's release . Tom , the abductor , seems to know a lot about Neil , being always ahead of the game . Thus begins a night ride through Chicago where Neil and Abby are taken from place to place until Tom's demands are met . Mike Barker , the director , gives a stylish account of this thriller that seems to have been disowned by the people responsible for its wide release and went to DVD and cable immediately . Written for the screen by William Morrissey , this thriller of suspense begins well , but there are too many clues that will help an observant viewer to discover the truth behind this long night's journey to nowhere . Gerald Butler makes a good impression as Neil , the arrogant and ambitious man that thinks he can pull anything and not be punished for his actions . Pierce Brosnan , acting against type , also contributes to the film . His take on Tom , the man that appears to be acting out of greed , hides behind a menacing attitude that paid big time . Maria Bello , on the other hand , has little to do in the film . The film will be gratifying for fans of the two principals . Mr . Barker who has worked extensively on television has a keen eye for detail . Ashley Rowe's cinematography is one of the main assets of this feature . The original music score by Robert Duncan works well . The art direction of Michael Wong contributes to the enjoyment of the film .
Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz	Juana Ines de la Cruz was a woman ahead of her times . She had everything going against her ; she was a woman , she had intelligence , and she intimidated the people around her . Everything conspired to make her a target for the higher ups in the Catholic Church in Mexico . The Archbishop wanted to silence her at all costs . These were the times when the so called Holy Inquisition was an instrument of the Church to get rid of anyone considered heretic , or who would question the dogma . It was a convenient way to get rid of the enemies , as the Catholic Church had such power that no one dared to challenge it . Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz wrote some of the best poetry known in the Spanish literature . Her work has survived because of the strength and beauty of her work . Sor Juana was befriended by the Spanish Viceroy and his wife . The virreina , in particular , saw in Juana a kindred spirit . Their relationship had shades of lesbianism , although only a chaste kiss is exchanged between them . When the Medinacellis are recalled home , Sor Juana is left at the mercy of the evil Archbishop who is bent in destroying her . Sor Juana Ines succumbs to the pest that took thousands in her country without being recognized in life for all she gave the world . Maria Luisa Bemberg , a feminist film maker , puts her stamp in this story by bringing together the influential virreina and Sor Juana , a combination of two strong women who lived during a period of uncertainty in Spain and her colonies in the new world . Asumpta Serna has some good moments as Juana Ines de la Cruz . Dominique Sanda is also effective playing opposite Ms . Serna as the virreina . Hector Alterio , Lautaro Murua , and the rest of the cast do a good job supporting the principal players . Cecilia Roth's dubbed the voice for Ms . Sanda . Felix Monti's dark cinematography serves the film well . The film was photographed in a studio , and at times , it looks as though it is a theater set . Ms . Bemberg directed with a sure hand and got a lot out of her cast and crew .
Goldigger	Josette , the sophisticated singer has attracted the attention of David Brassard senior . His two sons vow to get him away from the clutches of this woman who threatens to waste their father's fortune . In order to do so , they decide to go to the Silver Moon night club seeking to talk to Josette , not realizing the older Brassard has gone after the chanteuse to New York . Meanwhile , back at the cabaret , Barney Barnaby , its owner , finds himself in a mess trying to replace the headliner without much luck . Never fear , May Morris , a minor performer , suggests he hires the sweet Renee , a choir singer , to impersonate the absent Josette . It's at this moment when the younger Brassards , David and Pierre , decide to have it out with the singer , but in fact neither brother knows about the real identity of the fake Josette . As it turns out , Pierre , falls heads over heels for Renee . In fact , Renee has a mind of her own and sees the quality in the more grounded brother , David , who in turn falls in love with the sweet young woman , not before having to fight for her with his own brother . " Josette " , directed by Alan Dawn , is a seldom shown movie from the late 1930s that has a lot going for it thanks to the wonderful cast . This was one of the few films in which French star Michelle Simon appeared in American pictures . She was a charismatic presence who holds her own opposite of two great comedians of the time , Don Ameche and Robert Young . The result is a delightful comedy that is worth a look because of the talented cast that was assembled . Also , in minor roles , a wonderful Bert Lahr , the amazing Joan Davis , William Demarest and William Collier , among others .
Security risks	" National Treasure " is a thriller that was obviously targeted for young audiences . John Turtletaub , its director , has created a film that will resonate with those audiences because of the great ride and the adventure it depicts . On the other hand , heaven help us , should anyone feel inspired to emulate the hero of the film and attempts to do something similar , which in a way , doesn't say much about the security in guarding the real " natural treasures " of the country . If we can believe Ben Gates can pull the caper , then there's no problem in enjoying this film , which offers an action packed couple of hours that could have been trimmed a little bit to make it even better . Not being a Nicolas Cage fan , one was prepared for the worst , but this is one of the films in which Mr . Cage is at his mellowest intensity and it's easy to tolerate his antics . Diane Kreuger is a beautiful addition to the film that pays well . Justin Bartha does what he can being a computer nerd and pulling fantastic stuff to help his friend . Sean Bean , Christopher Plummer and Jon Voight , are seen in supporting roles . This is a film that will play well with young minds and with adults that will allow for the silliness of the situation at hand .
The distance	Daniel , a young man serving time in a Spanish prison for abetting a crime . A bad cop , Guillermo , visits the prisoner because he knows of Daniel's role in the murder . At the same time , Guillermo , who is gay , seems to develop an attraction to Daniel , but will never tell him how he feels about him . Guillermo urges Daniel to eliminate a night club owner , Salgado , who is also in jail . Daniel has no choice but to do what Guillermo proposes in order to save his own skin . Daniel , whose ambition is to be a boxer , goes to see a trainer after he gets out . This man , who is reluctant to work with a criminal , makes a bargain to coach him for one last fight when Daniel tells him he has been wrongly accused . Daniel who watches Salgado's funeral from a distance , is seen following his widow , Raquel . She is a former hooker but is no fool , likes what she sees in the ex con . What he didn't know is that he is about to fall in love with her . The police , who are following Raquel , tie Daniel to her , thinking she will implicate the young man in her husband's death . The rest of the story is complicated as others get in the scene and Daniel goes to win big on his first fight . Ultimately , Daniel becomes the target that must be eliminated . " La distancia " is one of the better films that have come out of Spain in recent memory . Thanks to director Inaki Dorronsoro , who also wrote the screen play , the movie combines a couple of genres to make a satisfying product . Mr . Dorronsoro got excellent performances from his cast , especially by Miguel Angel Silvestre and Jose Coronado . Both these actors involve the viewer making their characters seem real . One disappointment is Federico Luppi , an otherwise fine actor that has nothing to do in the picture . Lluis Homar , another good player has some good moments . Director Dorronsoro is a director well worth to watch in future ventures .
I love the way you're breaking my heart !	If there is a clue to the relationship between Doris Duke and her live-in assistant , Bernard Lafferty , it seems to be the moment in which she asks him point blank : " What do you want from me ? " After all , Ms . Duke was used to buy people left and right , as it was rumored was the case when she paid a million dollars to French actress Danielle Darrieux for the privilege of divorcing playboy Porfirio Rubirosa . Doris , who evidently got tired of people and things easily , had the upper hand in dealing with what she needed at any particular moment . " Bernard and Doris " , an HBO film , directed by Bob Balaban , and conceived by Hugh Costello , is based on a relationship that is perhaps a fantasy in the mind of its creators . Fact and fiction are mixed freely , although this movie doesn't try to give us reality because after all , Doris Duke's real life story would have probably made a Hollywood epic . Some things that come out in the film show us an heiress who enjoyed sex . That explains her marriage to Rubirosa a notorious man of mystical sexual prowess . Doris is seen bedding a rough man who , while satisfying her , he sought to have fun with her maid as well . When she fired the servant she immediately regrets it because of being fond of the way she worked . Bernard Lafferty , a man that had a huge drinking problem , came to work for Doris during her last years . In the film , Bernard is subservient and meek , when reality indicates he probably ruled Doris life with an iron fist . The figure that emerges is not exactly who one could imagine him to be because of the many accusations after Doris ' death . The real Lafferty and the screen Lafferty are two different persons . The film is worth a look because of the work of the two principals . Susan Sarandon is totally convincing as Doris as is the case with Ralph Fiennes the way his character was conceived for this screen treatment . This is one of Susan Sarandon's best roles in quite some time . Mr . Fiennes is great fun to watch as the gay butler that loved to wear his employer's finery . Maurice Rubinstein's cinematography captures the plush interiors of the Duke's estate . Alex Wurman contributed the music score and the editing of Andy Keir work well with Mr . Balaban overall concept .
Promises to keep	Some promises , like the one Stephen Mills made to Sue Gober when they were young , are often forgotten as life gets complicated . It's hard to imagine someone will still remember a pledge to meet with a childhood sweetheart forty years after it was made . Such is the premise of this delightful movie in which fate plays a big part of the story . When Frank Keane , a baker , meets Stephen , little does he know how his own life will be transformed after he is asked by Mills to go in search of the woman he promised to meet . What Frank finds is a group of lonely people that meets for a weekly ballroom dancing lesson led by the daughter of the founder of the school . Frank who is going through a rough time after his wife committed suicide , is caught by the gentle folks at the academy . Most of all , by Meredith , a young woman whose life is not exactly perfect and who suffers from beatings at the hand of a rough step-brother . Frank Keane , in turn , is part of a group of grieving widowers that meet to find a cure to their depression . Through flashbacks one gets to know Stephen Mills ' story and what happened to him as a grown man . Paul's recovery from the sad state his wife's suicide has meant for him has a lot to do with his passion for the newly discovery therapy : ballroom dancing , as taught by the famous Marilyn Hotchkiss ' daughter . Randall Miller expands on his 1990 short film of the same title giving it another perspective on the basic idea behind his first movie . There is a definite improvement as the film has opened up to better results . Some of the original cast return to repeat some of the original roles . The best thing in the film is Robert Carlyle . He is not a matine idol in any shape , or form , but playing against type gives him an opportunity to show his versatility . Marisa Tomei , seen as Meredith , does a fine work as the shy Meredith . Donny Wahlberg plays the brutish Randall Ipswich . Mary Steenburgen makes a fine Marianne Hotchkiss . John Goodman plays Stephen Mills . The large supporting cast makes an excellent contribution .
Unemployment line	" Fun with Dick and Jane " reflects , in many ways , what's wrong with our society . We watch in disbelief as more and more CEOs are hauled up to jail and how these unscrupulous people leave their once valued employees to fend for themselves , as best they can . Dan Perisot directs this remake of the 1977 Jane Fonda-George Segal vehicle and brings it up to date . He counts with two actors that are popular to present this new installment in a funny way , Jim Carrey and Tea Leoni in the main roles . Poor Dick finds out in the worst way the job he held has just disappeared and must face reality . Dick and Jane must deal with their sudden status as they see their electricity cut , their housekeeper deserts them and Dick suffers the indignity of having to compete with other unemployed , former colleagues , for jobs that aren't half as glamorous as the vice-presidency he almost had . What's a desperate man to do ? Well , being a resourceful man , he must do what he has to . Jane and Dick start a path into taking the law into their own hands . In a way , Mr . Carrey , one of the producers , mixes a serious problem with his kind of comedy . Jim Carrey is one of the best comedians working in movies today , but he also has an enormous talent for doing some serious dramatic work , as he has already proved . He is a dynamo in the film and turns the situation Dick is facing into fun , in his own way . Tea Leoni , is equally suited to play Jane , the travel agent who suddenly sees all those comforts she was used to , disappear , and must adapt to her new circumstances . Ms . Leoni and Mr . Carrey do some funny things together , making the film look much better than what could have been . The supporting players , mainly Alec Baldwin and Richard Jenkins make good contributions to the film . " Fun with Dick and Jane " is a typical example of those holiday themed films the studios love to unload at the end of the year .
Voyeur in the bayou	This film never had a chance as a commercial feature , but it should have been seen in spite of some weak parts . Robby Henson , directing his own material , proves he can tell a good story . If one adds to this the atmosphere of crooked politicians in Louisiana , the possibilities are endless . The film holds one's interest until one realizes who is the person who killed Mona . The director gives a clue while the sheriff is going in a different direction , either voluntarily , or just to tease us . The other thing that is not resolved is the relationship between Darl and Carla , his stranged wife , and with his daughter , who is hanging out with the wrong crowd . " The Badge " is a much better film than some of the trash that is being shown these days . The film owes a great deal to Billy Bob Thornton , who is the epitome of this rural sheriff . Mr . Thornton acts instinctively ; he is a natural and he makes this character his own . Also notable in the film is Patricia Arquette , who plays Scarlett , the stripper with a heart in its right place . William Devane's character should have been a lot more slimier because that's what we are expecting of him . Will look forward to the next film by this promising director .
E-l-i-z-a	If there is a novel that doesn't lend itself for cinematic adaptation , " Bee Season " , written by Myla Goldberg , would seem to be the one . It doesn't help that the screen play , as written by the talented Naomi Foner Gyllenhaal , doesn't help to clarify for the casual viewer what is going on with the Naumanns of Oakland . In fact , the problem in the novel , as well as with the movie is Miriam , the distant mother who has fled reality and lives in a world of her own . " Bee Season " co-directed by Scott McGehee and David Siegel feels empty because the somber treatment they have given to the movie . The dark cinematography of Giles Nuttgens doesn't help either , but the musical scores of Peter Nasher works well , as a whole . One enters the Naumann world through the sensitive Eliza , a girl much older and wiser than her 11 years indicate . It is Eliza who senses all that is wrong with her family , as it appears they are falling apart in front of her , and as a little girl , she simply can't do anything at all to bring everyone together . As a way to escape the unhappy home , Eliza immerses herself in the spelling bee contests in which she excels . Not until then , does she get the attention of her father , who supports her newly found talent . Saul , the religious studies professor , doesn't even come aware about what's wrong with his marriage until it's too late . In fact , he is a man appears to be unable to communicate with the illusive Miriam , a woman who is deeply disturbed by what happened in her own life with the tragedy of her parents death . Saul and Miriam's marriage is over , but they don't do anything to correct the situation . Miriam's problems come to a head when she is taken away and makes Saul confront the many issues that he probably never dealt with before . Aaron , the older son , is rebelling against his own religion . He needs to experiment with other beliefs because he is at that stage of his life in which he is trying to find out who he is . That is why when he meets Chali , the young Hare Krishna follower , he decides to follow her in his quest for finding a guidance for his life . The ensemble playing is dominated by the youngest cast member , Flora Cross , who makes a luminous Eliza . Her expressive eyes and her intelligence tells everything about her . Juliette Binoche's Miriam is a puzzle . Richard Gere does what he can with Saul and Max Minghella has some good moments as Aaron . Kate Bosworth is seen briefly as Chali . " Bee Season " is a difficult film to sit through because it is a dark look into a family falling apart without a safety net . Also , the way the film has been promoted gives a false impression about its content .
Bang the drum slowly	This endearing film was shown recently on a cable channel . We had no idea what to expect , but decided to give it a chance . In many ways , this South African film paid off big time . Despite its somber theme , the AIDS epidemic in Africa , this is without a doubt , one of the most positive films dealing with the problem , so endemic in that continent . Director David Hickson , gives an excellent account of a young orphan in the midst of turbulent times . Based on the screenplay of David McBryer , the film turned out to be a surprise . Young Masa has seen tragedy in his young life . His family has been decimated by the AIDS epidemic . He decides to go to Johannesburg to try to make a living that will help him support his family back home . His encounter with Nobe , the truck driver , is not a happy one . In the big city , Masa has to face all kinds of dangers in order to survive . Meeting Letti , another street kid , is about the only good thing that occurs to the boy . Together they feel invincible . When Letti disappears , Masa must form a new strategy in order to survive . He encounters Nobe again , but things change between them as the older man realizes the goodness in the young lad . Nobe also decides to awaken their township into doing something to combat the terrible disease by dealing with the ignorance that is the root of the problem . The director gets good performances all around from his mostly unprofessional crew . Best of all is Owen Sejake , who plays Nobe . Junior Singo makes an effective Masa , and Nolatandu Maleke is also good as Letti . A small film that will win the viewer's heart .
Ashes to the sea	" Stealing Home " is a film that will resonate with a section of the movie viewing public because it presents a story which will be easily loved . Directors Steven Kampmann and William Porter , who also wrote the screen play , show they can evoke the era in which the picture takes place . Both of these gentlemen know a thing or two about how to project the right atmosphere through the use of the popular music of the time . Although no date is given , it's clearly the early sixties when Billy and his best friend , Alan , come of age . It's the summer and they are spending it , like always , at the beach where their wealthy families seem to keep a home . There are three periods in which the film is set , once when Billy is about ten , then as a teen ager , and then as a young man in his twenties . Throughout the film , we watch the love between Katie , the friend of the Brown family , as she babysits the young Billy . Then , as a teen ager , Billy's love for Katie is made clear and it's returned by her . Katie is six years older , it's a love that consumes them during one summer after Billy's father is killed in a car accident . The last part of the film shows us Billy returning home as he has been called because Katie has named him to be the disposer of her ashes after she commits suicide . It's a beautiful love story , and it's easy to see why viewers love it . The best thing in the film are William McNamara , as the teen age Billy and Jodie Foster , who is Katie , the eternally beautiful Katie , who for some reason of movie magic , never seems to age . The supporting cast is excellent , John Shea , Blair Brown , Harold Ramis , among them . This is a good summer movie to watch . It's sunniness will warm any viewer looking for a good romantic way to spend some time .
The con men	Ernesto is a man that makes a living out of duping other solid citizens of their hard earned money . Together with Manco , an older man with a lot of experience , he pulls out capers that allow him to make a decent living , but that is not making him a rich man by any means . Enter Federico , an older man who is more experience in the art of deception . Together with the younger Ernesto they prove a winning combination . That only lasts until Pilar , Federico's former love interest , appears in the picture . This Spanish film directed by Miguel Bardem , is light in tone and pleasant to sit through . Other , better made caper films have been made with much clever plots than this one , but the film is easy to take , and at times , it has a lot of funny situations . This viewer will see Federico Luppi in anything , even reading the telephone directory ! He is an actor's actor . We have had the privilege of having seen him in the Buenos Aires stage doing excellent work before his international film career . As Federico , he does what he does best . It's impossible to imagine anyone better in his role . Ernesto Alterio , the son of Hector Alterio , is a young actor who promises to have a great career . Victoria Abril makes Pilar fun as she gets involved with these con men . Miguel Alexandre , a veteran actor , is also good as Manco .
Oscar season	" For Your Consideration " , co-written and directed by Christopher Guest , is a funny piece of cinema , not in the same category of some of this creator's best work . Eugene Levy is the other screen writer , a frequent collaborator with Mr . Guest . The mere idea of having " Home for Purim " in the running with other , much better films , is preposterous at best . We are taken to the making of this picture and the behind scenes that go on in a lot of projects . The director , who loves to eat , has no clue about what he if actually filming . The inside intrigues behind cameras conspire to bring its making to the attention of the entertainment media that thrive in bringing the hype to the general public who love to read about it . The best thing in the film is Marilyn Hack , a character actress who has seen better days . At first , she can't understand the luck in being singled out for emoting and eating the scenery . She is equally matched by Callie Webb , a younger woman with roots in Off-Off-Broadway performance acts , which we get a glimpse of it at the end . The leading man is a man that has distinguished himself for the silly commercials he has made . Most of the material seem to be an inside joke . Some of the stuff is readily grasped , but other gags could be elusive for people not in the biz . Catherine O'Hara shines as Marilyn , a woman of a certain age that is transformed by the buzz the media has generated . At the end , she is a pathetic acting coach showing the ravages of the cosmetic changes she has gone through in order to be on the limelight . Parker Posey is also effective as Callie . Eugene Levy is funny as the worst agent anyone can have . Christopher Guest appears as the director . Ed Begley Jr . is seen as a gay makeup artist . Harry Shearer enjoys for the first time being in the spotlight after a mediocre career . Jennifer Coolidge shows up as the producer of the ill conceived film . Ricky Gervais has a small part as the head of the Sunfish studio who wants to tone down the Jewishness aspect of the initial film . Fred Willard is hilarious as the TV commentator with a reddish Mohawk . Most of the cast has appeared in other Christopher Guest movies . They all contribute to work as a team . Even if the film is not to the standards of the previous work , it's impossible not to enjoy the shenanigans of the behind the camera by the ensemble players .
Gangs of Hong Kong	This film , part of a series , is stunningly good to watch as action movies go . But unfortunately , the copy that was shown at the Angelika , did nothing to clarify a great deal that goes on in the picture because it has the poorest subtitles that this viewer has witnessed in quite a long time . Yes , we get the point , and we realize what's happening with the two principals and all the subplots , but obviously , not being able to fully comprehend the different nuances of this film , we come out of the theatre frustrated thinking of all we missed . When the subtitles are shown against a white , or clear background , they're impossible to read . Directors Wai Keung Lau and Siu Fai Mak presents us with the Hong Kong underground . We hope the other installments will have better subtitles . Please invite a Chinese friend to come along in order to find out what you missed !
A farm in Connecticut	A young and energetic newlywed bride and her architect husband decide to exchange the Manhattan rat race for the pleasures of farm living in Connecticut . Claudia , who is a bubbly woman , is seen running all over the place as we meet her . She is something else ! In fact , she can make anyone dizzy with her effervescent personality . David , her husband , can only sit back and let Claudia be herself . Claudia , who likes to be in all places , all the time , has a flaw in her character in that she loves to listen to a telephone extension while others are talking ; she also loves to pry on the other phone users in the party line that is shared with other neighbors . This character imperfection will get her in trouble , as well as learning first hand of her mother's fatal illness , something David has tried to shield her from . There are some funny moments we meet a British neighbor who thinks nothing about trying to win Claudia over , which makes David think twice about his wife's flightiness and fidelity . We also witness the visit of a Russian singer who loves the farm and thinks nothing about buying it from David and Claudia . They stand to make a tidy profit from the proceeds . " Claudia " , directed with excellent pace by Edmund Golding , was a play before it was adapted for the screen . One can sense the provenance of the material by the way the movie was staged . We can sense the end of each act as different incidents mark the fall of the curtain indicating the breaks in the action . Nevertheless , this is a fun film to watch . A young Dorothy McGuire is the best thing in the film . She shows such a zest for life and vivacity that she dominates the film completely . Robert Young proves to be an excellent partner playing opposite Ms . McGuire . The supporting cast with marvelous actors like Ina Claire , Reginald Gardiner , and Olga Baclanova , contribute to our enjoyment . " Claudia " , which is rarely seen these days , merit a view from lovers of classic cinema .
The monster speaks !	Hal Hartley is an original film maker . With this film , which I recently saw in DVD form , he presents us a modern day parable about the media an its influence on our lives . It's curious to see how ahead of his times Mr . Hartley is when he deals with paranoia , even before the attacks of , in his own subtle way . It was not intentional , I'm sure , but he proves to have a keen eye for what was coming . The film is not one of Mr . Hartley's best , but we see his sure hand behind all what he is trying to do here . He is working with a cast that is working with him for the first time , with the exception of Robert John Burke , the Monster . Sarah Polley , is one of the best actresses working in movies these days . Her Beatrice is a study in contrasts . Also excellent , as always , is Helen Mirren , Beatrice's boss who is ruthless , arrogant , and manipulative . She knows the secret of how to get attention in the worst possible ways . Julie Christie makes a rare appearance as a kind doctor who befriends Beatrice . The scenery in Iceland is magnificent and Mr . Hartley captures it brilliantly .
A girl and her dog	Opal , the daughter of a preacher , is a girl with a mind of her own . When she meets Winn-Dixie , she has found a pal . Her father is a man that is in pain . He is trying to reconcile himself to his present circumstances . Arriving at the small southern town , he must do good work in order to attract a faithful congregation . He doesn't have much to fear , just leave it Opal to get everyone together in a place where people have grown apart . The great book by Kate DiCamillo , is an excellent book for young adults . Joan Singleton adapted it for the screen and Wayne Wang directed a nice cast that produced a movie that , while some would think it's too sugary for their taste , it captured perfectly the essence of a small southern town . The sweet AnnaSophia Robb plays the leading role . This young actress is a natural , or so it seems . Jeff Daniels , one of our best actors is seen as the preacher who can't forget his wife and who has to come to terms with himself . Cicely Tyson and Eva Maria Saint are perfect as two of the town's oldest citizens that are won over by Opal's goodness . Elle Fanning is seen as Sweetie Pie , a lovely girl . B . J . Hopper and Dave Mathews also contributed to the film . This film was clearly targeted for young audiences . It has the right ingredients that prove to be a magical combination for family movies , a girl and a cute dog , a sure formula for appealing to audiences . Wayne Wang , an unlikely choice for director , brings all these elements together for a film that will not disappoint .
The scam	" I migliari " , directed by Francesco Rosi showed up , unexpectedly , on a cable channel not long ago . It's not a film that is seen often , so we decided to watch it because anything by its director , Francesco Rosi , is worth a look . This 1959 Italian feature takes us to the Germany that was way ahead of the rest of some European countries in recovering from the ravages of the the second world war . We are taken to the underworld , where most of the characters live . At the center of it is Totonno who is a somewhat successful scam artist . He sells inferior merchandise pretending it has a quality that is not there . Around Totonno there we find a group of Italian immigrants eking a life in Germany relying on their wits to survive in a more secure environment . After all , their own country was still recovering , sending a lot of the population to other European countries where work was plentiful . The second plot deals with the illicit relationship between Mario , a handsome young man , and Paula Mayer , the wife of a wealthy German man that is behind the schemes of the immigrants . Mario , who falls head over heels with Paula , wants to take her away from that world , but she wants no part in his world of poverty . After all , she has seen it all . She comes clean to Mario as she reveals her past . The atmosphere of the film gives the viewer a bird's eye view of the Germany of that time . Shot mainly in Hannover and Hamburg , this movie reflects the tastes of a lot of Italian film makers of the post war ere in shooting in the streets and a frank depiction of the lives of these small time criminals . Best of all , Alberto Sordi , probably the most versatile of the Italian actors of his generation . Also appealing is Renato Salvatori , a handsome actor that gives an excellent portrait of the complex Mario . Belinda Lee , appears as the beautiful Paula Mayer . Giovanni DiVenanzo's black and white cinematography serves well the story as well as the score by Piero Piccioni . Francesco Rosi delivered with this enjoyable film that should be seen by fans of the director and its stars .
Child photographer turned private eye	This was one of the three films that Bob Hope did for Paramount with the theme of favorites : blonde , spy and brunette . He was at one of the best moments of his career when this spoof about the detective movie genre went into production . " My Favorite Brunette " was directed by Elliott Nugent with a style that made it fun and light to watch . The screen play by Edmund Beloin and Jack Rose parodies those films that showed a charismatic private eye get into all kinds of dangerous situations . In this film , Ronnie Jackson , a photographer in San Francisco is suddenly , thrown into a web of intrigue when he steps into the office of his neighbor , the real P . I , Sam McCloud , who is fed up with the job and is leaving town . Enter the femme fatale , something that is a must in this type of film , Carlotta Montay . She will get Ronnie into all kinds of difficult situations and even the gas chamber as he tries his best to deal with all the bad people that are chasing Carlotta . Bob Hope was excellent in his take of Ronnie Jackson . Dorothy Lamour , in all her beauty , made the most of her Carlotta . Two cameos in the film were notorious because they are uncredited and unexpected : Alan Ladd , and Bing Crosby . Others in the film are Peter Lorre , Lon Chaney Jr . , Charles Dingle , Frank Puglia , Reginald Denny , among the supporting cast . The film is still a lot of fun as it makes fun of other more dramatic movies thanks to the direction of Elliott Nugent .
Tennis , anyone ?	" Wimbledon " was a film that disappeared quickly from the local theaters . When we attempted to see it , alas , it had already gone . This comedy , directed by Richard Loncraine , is of special interest for those tennis fans that haven't had the opportunity to watch the sport at its best and brilliantly photographed . The movie is also a romantic view at the people that headline those tournaments . Paul Bettany and Kirsten Dunst are excellent as the couple one sees at the center of the story . Mr . Bettany is an actor that is always a pleasure to watch in anything he does . Peter Colt , as played by Mr . Bettany , is the has been tennis player facing an uncertain future of working as a pro in local country clubs , to make a living . He is at the end of his best years , and he knows it . In fact , he is constantly reminded about his number in the tennis ranking that he has to clarify for everyone . Kirsten Dunst makes a great contribution to the film as Lizzie Bradbury , an up and coming American sensation . She falls for Peter , even though he is not in her same league . The sunny Ms . Dunst is an absolute delight in the film . This actress is always a welcome sight in anything she does . In the minor roles one sees Sam Neill , who doesn't have much to do playing Lizzie's father . Jon Favreau , is Peter's agent who returns his attention as Peter's fame begins to shine again . Bernard Hill and Eleonor Bron play Peter's parents . The star of the film though , is the magnificent spectacle of Wimbledon , the best venue for tennis in the whole world . We see the excitement of the competition that Mr . Loncraine has created for all people that love tennis to enjoy .
The Irish lad	Peter Sheridan , the director of " Borstal Boy " , shows a good sensibility to the material based on the life of Brendan Behan . Having only seen the play at the Lyceum theater in the 70s , it was intriguing to see what kind of adaptation it received on the screen . The best thing in the film is the young ensemble cast gathered for the film . What comes out in the movie is how friendships made in reform camp affected Mr . Behan for life . The fact that young Brendan can get to like someone as different as Charlie , speaks volumes for tolerance for someone that comes from Brendan's background . Shawn Hatosy does a marvelous job in his portrayal of Brendan Behan . For an American born actor , this young man clearly demonstrates a range that many of his contemporaries don't have . In the pivotal role of Charlie Milwall , Danny Dyer gives a brilliant performance . Lee Ingleby , as the cruel Dale , is perfect . Eva Birthistle , as the daughter of the warden Joyce , is the only female in a man's world and she does a great job in making the young woman come alive . Michael York has a good opportunity in the role of Joyce . The only problem with the film is that the dialog is hard to follow , be it because of the sound track , or the heavy accents Mr . Sheridan has everyone speaking as a way to show authenticity . We watched the DVD version , and had to turn the volume to maximum , and still it sounded muffled . In spite of that flaw , " Borstal Boy " is a powerful movie that needs to be seen .
Only a few weeks to live	Imagine the situation that Georgia Byrd has to face . After a cat scan she is told by the doctor she has an incurable disease and that her days are numbered . Anyone learning about a terminal illness must take stock of what is in store and prepare for a quiet death . Well , Georgia , on the other hand , a woman who has tried to lead a good life , foregoing material pleasures , suddenly decides to spend whatever she has doing what she wants before it's too late . She quits her job at a department store where Sean , the man she likes from a distance , also works . Georgia has always dreamed about a fabulous vacation in places she can't afford . That is why the Grand Hotel Pupp is the only place she even contemplates . Located in the Tyrolean Alps , it's a picture perfect place for the rich and famous and since Georgia has come with the idea of enjoying herself , she doesn't mind the expense . After all , she cashed in all her securities for this last fling . At the resort , she doesn't bat an eyelash about expenses . After all , she figures , she'd better pamper herself . Georgia realizes she must update her wardrobe as well and transforms herself into a beautiful creature . The party of Americans staying at the hotel include the senator from her home state of Louisiana and the rich man who owned the store where she worked in New Orleans . Georgia is an instant hit because she is herself all the time . She makes everyone at the hotel like her because they see in Georgia a genuine person . Wayne Wang , the director of this film has always delivered well crafted pictures that are entertaining . This is a film loosely based on the English film of the same title that was a vehicle for Alec Guinnes and J . B . Pristley , the original writer is given credit . The adaptation for this version works out well because it's never meant to be anything more than a light comedy , a bit predictable , perhaps , but it satisfy none the less . Queen Latifah is a natural actress with a lot of charm . She is the basic reason for watching " Last Holiday " because she dominates it with her charming presence . LL Cool J is seen as Sean , her love interest , who doesn't have much to do in the movie . Timothy Hutton plays the mean spirited American millionaire who feels upstaged by a woman who he learns was his employee . Gerard Depardieu plays Didier , a chef that sees in Georgia a kindred spirit . Alicia Witt , Giancarlo Esposito , and Michael Nouri , appear in supporting roles . The winning combination of Wayne Wang with Queen Latifah proves to be irresistible .
Scenes from a marriage	Jean Harvey , the wealthy owner of a Parisian newspaper , lives in splendor . He entertains lavishly , although as he points out in the narration during the opening scenes , his dinners are perhaps not as elaborate as those of the other wealthy people in their circle . We watch him as the story opens walking proudly throughout the streets of a smart quarter of the city thinking aloud for our benefit as a way of introduction . The next time we see Jean is at one of his Thursday dinners in which a group of friends gather around his table to eat , talk and do what people in his circle do . It's at this moment that are introduced to Gabrielle , his lovely wife , an attractive woman who can hold her own at her parties because she commands attention from her friends whenever she speaks . For all appearances , the Harveys are a happily married couple without a care in the world . Little prepares us for what awaits Jean Harvey as he goes home one day . Jean has told us how he and Gabrielle occupy just one room with twin beds , as they don't believe in separate accommodations . As he enters the bedroom , he sees an envelope addressed to him . Imagine his surprise as he opens it and finds out Gabrielle has left him for another man ! Jean goes into a rage , perhaps because he had no hint of anything wrong with Gabrielle , who obviously , must have been planning leaving him for quite some time . In his state , he trashes a glass decanter and he cuts himself . Nothing seems to calm him from his state until , unexpectedly , we see a feminine figure clad in black ascending the stairs toward the bedroom . As the door opens , one can only see the blue gloves the woman is wearing . It's apparent Gabrielle has returned . It's at this moment when the real fight begins between Jean and Gabrielle . The biggest shock for Jean is to know the name of the man who has charmed his wife into leaving him . Gabrielle feels she has made a horrible mistake , but she doesn't mince words in telling Jean what motivated her into going away . Jean is a cold man who never really understood his wife , as it seems always the case . To make matters worse , being a worldly man , he is more interested in what the friends in his circle will think about him , as it's obvious the servants will talk about them . Patrice Chereau has created a film that surprises at first , and then , when all is said and done , makes us feel we've been had for the way the Harveys decide to settle their differences . Jean will never forgive Gabrielle , although at the end , one gets a hint that Gabrielle is willing to give Jean a part of herself she has kept away from him all along . The film , based on a Joseph Conrad short story , " The Return " , which we haven't read , gets a great staging by the director , who also co-wrote the screen play with Anne-Louise Thivudic . Mr . Chereau combines black and white photography in the early part of the film with color as the story develops . This is a film that makes us think about how some marriages , that appear to be happy , in reality are not so , as proved by the Harveys . Even though they are rich , have a great mansion , live comfortably , entertain friends , yet love eludes them , so Gabrielle has to go outside to feel wanted and needed . The film consists of basically two characters , Jean and Gabrielle . Pascal Greggory and Isabelle Huppert are magnificent in the way they bring these two characters to life . Both actors give performances of such depth , we are stunned by their range and how they interact with one another through the movie . The film is helped by the wonderful cinematography of Eric Gautier who works with the dark colors in the film that compliment the mood of the couple at the center of the action . Also , the background music by Favio Bacchi plays well in the context of the film . Patrice Chereau has directed with his usual panache , and although he sometimes succeeds , we feel this couple should have never gotten married in the first place .
The precinct .	Never saw this movie during its commercial run , but we caught with it on cable recently . " Kuffs " , directed by Bruce Evans , was a surprise we didn't expect . In fact , it appears not too many people saw it . The movie is a mixture of action and comedy , which might not sit well with a lot of people , but in fact , it holds our attention . Something the film shows didn't make sense to us . It seems that in San Francisco certain precincts charge ordinary citizens for its protection , something one has never heard of . In fact , at the center of the film , is how one criminal makes an offer to the young Kuffs , who has inherited the job from his slain brother . That is the only thing we didn't quite get . In the film , George Kuffs talks directly to the camera , taking the viewer into his confidence , which at the beginning feels strange , but after one gets over that , the film moves smoothly and one can see what the director intended . In the theater these moments are asides , and in the film it serves as George's way to explain what's going on in his mind . Christian Slater made a good contribution to the film , although it appears he never liked the finished product . Milla Jovovich plays Milla , but she is only seen at the beginning , middle and at the end of the film , which is strange , but that's the way her part was written . Also in the cast , Tony Goldwyn who has some excellent moments and George de la Pena who plays the heavy Sam Jones . " Kuffs " is more rewarding than other films of this genre .
Open marriage	" Les Liaisons Dangereuses " , a novel by Chordelos DeLaclos , had a great impact in the French culture . It's a work of such impact that it has served to inspire different screen treatments throughout the years . Roger Vadim updated the book to the France of the 1950s . Together with Claude Blule and Roger Vailand , they adapted Laclos ' story among the upper classes . Juliette Merteuil , who is married to the Vicomte Valmont , are swingers in Paris . Juliette and Valmont love to play around and they move in the right circles where it appears that everything goes , or is , at least , tolerated . They are the ultimate sophisticates who have class the right connections . Juliette wants to teach a lesson to someone that had crossed her in the past , and sets to weave a web of intrigue in order to get her revenge and her kicks , in doing so . Needless to say , everything backfires on Mme . Merteuil and the Vicomte , as they get entangled in the web that has been spun . Valmont wanted to turn the youthful Cecile into a sex object , even though she is a virtuous girl who is going to get married with Danceny , the man who offended Mme . Merteuil . At the same time , Valmont can't help falling in love with Marianne , a beautiful young woman . It is ironic what happens to Valmont and to Mme . Merteuil , who instead of smallpox gets her face damaged by fire . The film is interesting to watch as a comparison with the other versions that appear to be much better made than the Vadim version . The best thing going for the film is Gerard Philipe , who plays Valmont . Mr . Philipe made a good impression as the Vicomte . Jeanne Moreau , who is seen as Juliette Merteuil , looked beautiful in the role of the evil woman with designs on others . Jeanne Valerie appears as Cecile and Annette Vadim portrays Marianne . The young Jean-Louis Trintignant is seen as Danceny . What distinguishes the film is the jazzy musical score by Thelonious Monk . The music blends well with the night club settings in the film and it can stand alone for listening . Marcel Grignon's dark photography didn't transfer to the DVD format well . This has to be one of the darkest photographed films in memory . Even the snow scenes look dark ! Roger Vadim's attempt was courageous for transferring the novel to that high society world of the Parisian society .
A call before dying	Bonnie , a real estate agent , receives a distress call from the ex-wife of her husband . In it , she warns Bonnie her life and that of her young daughter , Amanda , are in danger . Not knowing what to do , Bonnie goes to see her , and to her horror , she finds the woman sprawled on the floor , obviously the victim of foul play . Lauren , the teenage daughter of the dead woman , doesn't register any emotion at all . It's clear Lauren resents the presence of the new wife of her father in her own house . Bonnie , who on the surface appears to have a good thing going with Ross , has no choice but to bring Lauren and her brother Sam to live with her . This of course , is met with resentment by both siblings who regard Bonnie as a stranger . Bonnie soon discovers that the threat Ross ' former wife told her about is real . Soon , strange things are happening . The appearance of Nick , Bonnie's estranged brother at the cemetery proves to add another dimension to the tension that was created by the crime she witnessed . Bonnie , we learn later on when she goes to visit her parents ' house , has never forgiven her own father for running away from home , leaving her and Nick to fend for themselves . The film has been adapted from Joy Fielding's novel by Dave Schultz and directed by actor Jason Priestley . The result is a movie that holds our attention thanks to the good work the director gets of Leslie Hope , an actress who clearly knew who the woman she is portraying was . Not so effective Cameron Bancroft , as Ross , the philandering husband . Jason Priestley is seen as Nick . Although not a great film , " Don't Cry Now " holds the viewer's attention . The locations in Calgary add another layer to the story .
The last viking	Daniel Petrie's " Rocketship Gibraltar " was shown recently on cable . It is an elegiac tribute , in many ways , to the great Burt Lancaster , whose last movie this was . The film's message seems to be telling us how impressionable children are as they interpret facts told by a grandfatherly figure . When we first meet Levi Rockwell , he appears not to be well . His upcoming birthday is the occasion for a family reunion . We watch as the clan descends to the patriarch's home in Long Island . The adults are all self-absorbed in their own little dramas . The eight grandchildren take the occasion for reacquainting themselves with Levi . In turn , the grandfather tells them his views on dying and how he would love to be buried at sea , which he loves more than anything in the world . The film last sequence is amazing , as we see the children take charge of the situation . Burt Lancaster is fine . It seems he must have known his own end was near as we watch him looking mistily toward a family that love him , but are somehow distant . The children , especially a sweet Macauley Culkin , are delightful to watch because being so young , they still know of malice , and other evils they will learn later on . The film is sad and uplifting at the same time . We , in turn feel grateful Levi , the great writer has been given his last wishes .
Tissues required !	Douglas Sirk directed a lot of films that capitalized on the melodramas that were highly popular in the fifties . In " Magnificent Obsession " he shows why he was probably the man that was born to direct this film , as well as others of the genre . This is a remake of the film of 1935 , which had been a vehicle for Irene Dunne and Robert Taylor . Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson seemed to be unlikely candidates for playing a romantic couple in the movies . After all , Ms . Wyman was older than Mr . Hudson and clearly appeared to be in the film . The story , which is based on LLoyd Douglas novel , has a little bit of everything . " Magnificent Obsession " proved to be a hit for its stars . In a way , it's easy to see why fans were attracted to it , with its many twists and turns and the impossible love between Helen and Dr . Bob Merrick , the playboy who becomes contrite after he causes the accident that makes Helen blind . Also in the cast the magnificent Agnes Moorehead , who has great moments in the film .
USO entertainment	LLoyd Bacon , the director of " Call me Mister " , had an excellent track record as the man that gave us " 42 Street " , " Gold Diggers of 1936 " , " The Frisco Kid " , and " Brother Orchid " , among others . The film is based in a musical review with music by Harold Rome and Arnold Auerbach . The plot is a vehicle to show Betty Grable in a musical about a USO performer in post war Japan . The story is just a pretext to present Ms . Grable as an entertainer who wants to share joy among the troops still awaiting repatriation . Ms . Grable had such an effervescence about herself , it's easy to fall under her spell even in such a silly comedy as this one . Dan Dailey plays the man in Ms . Grable's life . He was an excellent singer and dancer who always projected a masculine presence in anything he did . Both Ms . Grable and Mr . Dailey make a winning combination in the movie . We get to see other faces that went to make names for themselves . Dale Robertson , Danny Thomas , Richard Boone , Jeffrey Hunter , Frank Fontaine , Jerry Paris and Bobby Short , among others . The musical numbers were staged by Busby Berkley , a man who always had an edge in everything he did . The last production number stands out as the four principals , Ms . Grable , Mr . Dailey , Ms . Venata and Mr . Thomas take to the stage . That was entertainment !
Made in the Bronx	Wayne Lang's Maid in Manhattan is more entertaining than I had expected it to be , given the circumstances . This is a film that wants to do a take on the Cinderella story utilizing the popularity of Jennifer Lopez , no doubt . The whole idea that an up and coming Republican candidate would even pay attention to this pretty woman in borrowed clothes is a stretch of the imagination . These Waspy types don't have it in them to mingle with the help , or exotic types , as certainly Marisa Ventura might have appeared to this Chris Marshall . Miss Lopez is a better actress than some of her vehicles . She can act , as she has proven already , and certainly deserve better than what the team behind the film have given her to do here . It's funny how some life and reality mix as they do in this film . JayLo comes from the Bronx originally and she's back on the No . 6 train again for most of the movie . Ralph Fiennes is suave as the would be senator . His scenes with JayLo reveal the right amount of chemistry between them . Natasha Richardson is on target as the society bitch with the right clothes staying at the hotel . Bo Hoskins is excellent as usual . Also Marissa Matrone , as Stephanie , JayLo's best friend and fairy god mother , is very effective , as is Tyler Posey as the cute little boy afraid to speak in public .
Shoot the piano player !	Rolf Schubel , the director , has created a movie around a menage a trois that was very civilized . Ilona loves Joachim , but she also loves Andras , the piano player . Andras , is the composer of the suicide provoking song that was the rage of the 30s in Budapest , as well as in the rest of Europe . The setting is a somehow fancy restaurant in Budapest at the onset of World War II . Laszlo , the owner , is having an affair with Ilona , his assistant , who also works at the restaurant . Enter Andras : Ilona is instantly smitten by his good looks , his obvious youth , in contrast with Joachim , who is much older but might not be exactly what she wants to find between her sheets . Joachim goes along with the very civilized arrangement among them . One night is spent with Andras and the next one with Laszlo , who after all , is the one with the money and paying the bill ! Of course , the story is too good to be true . There is Hans , the young German that adores the fine cousine offered at the restaurant and is taken with Ilona's beauty . Hans will return as a Nazi officer and he'll be the force that destroys the happiness of this trio and who , at the end , has to pay for the horrible things he did in his youth . This part was very predictable , since one knows after seeing so many stories like this , it always ends tragically because of Nazis , even friendly ones , as Hans was , deep down inside hates Joachim because he had what he never could have , Ilona . Therefore , Joachim will have to disappear from the picture . The film is easy to watch . The melody will stay with the viewer forever , but alas , like a good Hungarian dishes , too much paprika will spoil the goulash .
Adam and Eve and the serpent	Mike Figgis is an innovative director . This film was made before his other , more daring movie , " Timecode " in which he worked with a split screen in which the action could be seen happening at all times in all four sections . This film is also full of symbolism that will elude viewers . We don't think the director wanted to lose , no pun intended , the audience . The action in this film is seen through the eyes of Nic at different stages of his life . As the movie opens , he appears in the form of a child Nic and he makes another visit at the end of the movie , perhaps to watch our reaction . The child has intelligent eyes ; he appears to be looking at our soul , or perhaps he is telling us this was his own story . The film that doesn't follow a linear narrative . Mr . Figgis composed the incidental music . He also includes well known piano pieces from composers like Beethoven and Chopin that plays well with the images on the screen . The real coup of the director was to employ Benoit Delhomme as the cinematographer of this droll story that follows Vic from childhood . Mr . Delhomme photographs the natural locations with such care that it might prove a distraction for the viewer . Some interesting actors were engaged to give life to this sophisticated look about the loss of innocence . This is a sensual movie that relies on the openness in which the director wanted to show . Julian Sands is Vic , the young boy of the story , now an adult and a film director . Saffron Burrows is seen in a double role ; she is a ravishing woman ! Jonathan Rhys Meyers plays Vic as a young man . Kelly MacDonald is seen as Susan . Hanne Klintoe and Femi Ogumbanjo are seen as Adam and Eve as they are placed on the garden of eden and when they are thrown out from it after having taste the forbidden fruit . John Cowey is Vic as a child in a non speaking but highly effective part . Rosie DePalma , a Spanish actress with an amazing face , is seen as a blind woman in a riveting scene . Like it or not , Mike Figgis is not a director to dismiss easily because he is an original .
Let's play Dodgeball !	Rawson Marshall Thurber has come out with one of the funniest summer films of the year . Frankly , not even knowing what to expect , we had hesitated about seeing it , but what a pleasant surprise this movie turned out to be ! If one goes with an open mind , it will entertain anyone in any age group . The film is insane . Ben Stiller does probably his best work in a while . He's been in lots of films lately that don't do anything for him , let alone show him at his goofiest self . Mr . Thurber must have seen a possibility casting him , and it paid handsomely . Vince Vaughn , plays with a straight face , but he is quite good and holds his own playing opposite to Mr . Stiller . The scenes in Las Vegas , during the finals of the Dodgeball tournament are absolutely insane . The game is a lot of fun to watch and will turn any viewer into a fan . Be prepared to laugh a lot ! Light fare like this is always welcome and Rawson Marshall Turner knows how to keep us happy .
Suspicion of murder	George Reeves was an idol to the American children of the 1950s . After all , he graced the television screens as their hero Superman . As an actor , well , that was another story . Mr . Reeves ' claim to fame was a short part in " Gone With the Wind " that probably no one remembers since he was in a scene with ravishingly beautiful Vivien Leigh . It was a shock when his suicide was first page news for newspapers . There was always the suspicion that in reality , Mr . Reeves had been murdered . It was a story circulating at the time because of the mysterious circumstances of the case . " Hollywoodland " tries to settle the score in this fictionalized version of the incident . There are two narratives in the film . One involves a second rate private investigator , Louis Simo , who is told about the possibility of foul play , and instead of a suicide , it was truly a case of murder . He sets out to convince Reeves ' mother to pursue the case in order to get justice done to his son . Simo , who had problems of his own , tries doggedly to make sense about what really happened . Simo comes up with three different scenarios about what really happened to the actor , none of which were proved to be right . The second narrative is an examination of George Reeves ' life . As an actor , he never made it big in the movie industry . In a way , he gets lucky when he meets Toni Mannix , the wife of an executive from MGM . She was a woman way ahead of her times living an open marriage . It was no big deal that she fell for the handsome man . She was instrumental in pushing him to a well connected coterie of friends . Unfortunately , she didn't succeed . Allen Coulter , a man who has worked extensively on television , is the director of " Hollywoodland " . Working on the screen play by Paul Bernbaum , he made a film that shows some of the nastiness and underside of the people in the industry . Diane Lane impressed this viewer because one has seen her in light comedies before but never getting these types of roles . Her Toni Mannix is right on target . The actress shows a vulnerability not seen before . Adrien Brody appears as Louis Simo , not one of his best creations . Ben Affleck is another surprise in the way he portrays the late action hero . Bo Hopkins , always perfect is Eddie Mannix , a man with no scruples . Jeffrey DeMumm , Lois Smith , Robin Tunney , and the rest of the cast make an effort to do justice to Mr . Coulter . Although not a real story , the film adds mystery to the myth that has circulated in the real Hollywoodland .
Drinking to oblivion	One has to admire an actor like Arliss Howard for his courage in bringing this film to the screen . It is a painful story to watch , but it has its own rewards . The movie played locally only for a very short time , and sadly , it disappeared until it was shown recently on cable , for which we are grateful . Perhaps with another director , some of the kinks in the film would have been ironed out . There are scenes that are just too painful to watch . Our hearts go out to Barlow and what he is going through at this time of his life . His writing is brilliant , but most everyone he submits his novels to , end up rejecting them . Barlow cannot take another defeat in his life . To make matters worse , his divorce from Marilyn is driving him insane . We often wonder how these two unmatched pair thought they were going to make it at all . In bad marriages , both parties remain bitter over every little detail dictated by the court when they must separate . Arliss Howard , as Barlow gives a heart felt performance . We see him sinking lower and lower without a safety net to hold him . Unfortunately , Debra Winger's time on screen is very short . Ms Winger makes this woman an enigma since we don't really know where her head is at . The other actors are good . Paul Le Mat , Rosanna Arquette and above all , a short , but very excellent turn by Angie Dickinson , make us care about the fate of these people .
The cubs	Jean-Jacques Annaud's films always showcases animals doing extremely amazing things , which is why they are so enjoyable . While this is a film better seen by children of certain age group , it's not a Disney product , and parents should be aware of that fact . Some comments in this IMDb forum criticize the film makers for what they perceive was a marketing ploy that targeted the movie to small children . Perhaps the people that promoted the film are to be blamed for that , or maybe Mr . Annaud was targeting the film for a more mature audience . " Two Brothers " is a story about two tigers that are separated at a young stage of their lives , while their parents are killed by people that loved to engage in this type of hunting . The two little cubs are about the best in the film as one see them getting in all kinds of adventures in the first part of the film . The story behind the animals serves the film as it provides an accessible background as it illustrates the inter action between humans and animals . Guy Pearce and Freddie Highmore are seen in the film as Aidan and Raoul . Freddie Highmore is a child actor with an expressive face that shows a child of great intelligence without any trace of ego . As Mr . Annaud proved with " The Bear " , he has a good eye for involving the animals in his stories about them with surprising results .
Fasten your seat belts	" Flightplan " seems to have affected IMDb contributors like no other film in recent memory . Mostly is bad . We didn't catch up with this picture until recently . Frankly , we are puzzled as to why the hatred . Granted , the film had the potential for being better , but it's not the total failure as some of the comments in this forum will make one believe . It appears there's an agenda to mark " Flightplan " comments as not useful . Director Robert Schwentke working with Peter Dowling and Billy Ray's screen play , hasn't added much to the film in order to make it a thriller to be reckoned with , but , in general , the film is not a total waste , as seems to be the perception among contributors . In a way , " Flightplan " plays with the viewer's perception as to who is behind the disappearance of Julia , the six year old girl traveling with her mother , Kyle , to New York . Kyle has suffered a great tragedy in her life when her husband was found dead in her building's courtyard . The fact that Kyle hasn't been able to accept the death is clear in the first sequence when we see her sitting inside the Alexanderplaz metro station in Berlin . Kyle , an aircraft designing engineer , is a good mother . One can imagine her panic when she wakes up from a nap to find Julia's gone . No one seems to have noticed the little girl ; there is no record of she ever been on board . Kyle meets resistance from the crew of the flight . Even the sky marshal , Carson , is no help at all . What's a mother to do ? If one is in Kyle's shoes , one starts taking matter into her own hands . Jodie Foster does a good job portraying Kyle . She is a mother who doesn't take no for an answer . In fact , she is the one that unravels the mystery surrounding her daughter's disappearance . The climax sequence is perfectly set , as one would expect it to be . Peter Sarsgaard , is Carson , the sky marshal traveling in the economy section . He is in charge of the safety of the passengers on the flight . In an unusual role for him , Mr . Sarsgaard has some good chances in the movie . Sean Bean plays the pilot of the jumbo jet . Kate Beahan is seen as one of the flight attendants . Erika Christiensen is also part of the crew . The best way to enjoy the film is not to compare it to anything else and just go for the entertaining value in it because we know this is not a ground breaking film , but thanks to Mr . Schwentke and his cast , it offers us a bumpy ride of a film .
The ATM	Rowdy Herrington's " The Stickup " turned out to be a surprise when it turned up recently on cable . Not having seen it before , we decided to take a chance , which paid up because of the interesting work the director gets out of the star of the film , James Spader . " The Stickup " makes a case for appearing to be something on the surface , while being something else in reality . John Parker , the cop that decides to take a trip up north to clear his head knows about the corruption in his own department and feels horrible about the death of his good partner during a stake out in L . A . When we see him at the beginning of the film bleeding at a church , little do we know what he has been involved in . For all appearances , John has robbed the bank and has gotten away with all the money . An FBI agent is assigned to the case ; he is an inexperienced young man who appears not to have a clue of what he is doing , but by looking to clues in the video tape about the bank heist , he will solve the mystery . The film is greatly helped by James Spader , who as John Parker is the best thing in the movie . Leslie Stefanson , is Natalie , the nurse who believes in Parker even when all the evidence points out to his guilt . David Keith is perfectly obnoxious as the sheriff . " The Stickup " is a small film that packs a great punch !
You're mine alone !	Domestic violence is perhaps more prevalent than one realizes . People caught in this situation often don't have the guts to confront reality and never leave the relationship soon enough to gain their sanity . This film , directed by Javier Balaguer , was shown recently on cable and since it paired Sergi Lopez , perhaps Spain's best movie actor , and Paz Vega , got my attention . The situation presented here is a study on how Joaquin , an up and coming advertising executive meets and falls in love with the lovely Angela . One can see from the beginning this relationship is doomed . Joaquin takes out all his frustrations on Angela and beats her up on many occasions until Angela walks out . The best part of the film is the surprising twist we witness at the end . We realize that justice works in mysterious ways , but it finally arrives and Angela is a winner . Sergi Lopez is excellent as Joaquin . This actor has an intelligence that keeps amazing his fans from one film to next . Paz Vega is a beautiful , but resolute Angela . Elvira Minguez plays the pivotal role of Andrea , Angela's best friend , with conviction .
Utopian society	It's the outset of the Spanish Civil War of the 1930s . Anarchy and confusion broke in those first days of the conflict that was to change Spain and scar it forever . The divisions between the communist and fascists are at center stage in this tale which is seen from the feminist viewpoint , since it concentrates on a group of women who are prepared to die for their cause . Vicente Aranda's epic about the Spanish conflict serves to clarify what triggered it . On the one hand were Franco and his followers , and on the other , the revolutionaries who dreamed about a better society and a more equal one in which all its citizens had a role . Alas , it was only short lived , as history tells us . Utopia , after all , is just that , a dream , at best . Maria , the nun , quickly understands how little the convent life has helped her to face the hard facts she must face alone . Befriended by the revolutionary women force that is trying to make women aware of the new reality in the country , she learns quickly how wrong she has been , and even though she never takes a rifle to defend the women's cause , she is sympathetic to the women's plight . By the way , even the revolutionary leaders didn't particularly appreciate the contribution of the women and wanted them doing other jobs , but not at the front , fighting alongside them . Ariadna Gil does a good job as Maria . Ana Belen is intense as Pilar . Victoria Abril plays Floren , the medium that channels a man who tried to kill a royal couple earlier in the century , in a hilarious scene . Juan Sancho , Loles Leon , Jorge Sanz , and Miguel Bose are some of the faces in the large cast . The film shows an aspect of the Spanish Civil War not shown often and it helps to put in perspective the causes of the conflict .
Father and son	Robert Lenhart , the publisher of quality books , is facing a financial downturn in his business . No one seems to care for the material he prefers to give the public anymore . His wife Eve , who clearly doesn't love him , decides to move on when he tries to reason with her in trying to economize . Eve walks out leaving Bill , her young son , with Robert , who clearly adores the boy , for the rich Felix Shaw . Robert's business takes a great turn for the better , when Jean Oliver , a bestselling romance author decides to bring her new novel to his firm . Robert's secretary , Maxine , who secretly loves her boss , dotes on Bill , because she realizes he misses his mother . It's no wonder Robert also begins to see his assistant in a new manner . Eve , who has married into the wealthy Shaw family , couldn't care less about Bill , as long as she is having fun . Her mother in law , Emma Shaw , meets the young son , and immediately takes to him and wants Eve to sue for custody . Things are complicated as Emma goes to the cottage where Robert and Bill have spent Chrismas with Maxine . Emma takes the matter into her hands , but realizes at the end that instead of getting young Bill's affections , she is being unfair . This forgotten 1935 film , directed by Edward Ludwig , was seen on TCM recently . It's a story typical of the times . What Mr . Ludwig accomplished was to tell a richly detailed story in 80 minutes that seem even shorter as one gets involved in this movie . Part of the success must go to Paul Lukas , who plays Robert Lenhart with his usual style . His Robert shows a tremendous love for Bill , who depends on him for everything . Madge Evans is perfect as Maxine Bennett , the secretary who falls in love with her boss , but would not do anything to jeopardize the father-son relationship . May Robson makes a strident Emma Shaw , a selfish rich woman , who comes to her senses when she realizes what she is going to do . There is a delicious moment in the film when Catherine Doucet , the romance novelist , comes to visit Robert Lenhart in his office . David Holt and Helen Vinson also make valuable contributions to the picture as Bill and Eve . " Age of Indiscretion " is an enjoyable movie that reflects the tastes of the times in which it was made .
Two fathers	" Reservation Road " is a difficult movie to sit through . The tragic death of a boy is something no one expects . It's a parents ' nightmare to go through the loss of a child . If that death is caused by a hit and run driver , is even worse . Unfortunately , in most cases , guilt and shame play highly on the mind of the perpetrator . While the decent thing to do is to stop and go back to the scene of the crime , most people will run out of fear of facing their own responsibility . Ethan Learner and Dwight Arno are two men that love their children . In the case of Dwight , a divorce has limited the way he can share time with his son Lucas . Ethan suffers a tremendous blow when Josh , who has strayed from the parking area to liberate fireflies , is killed by what appears , by all indications , of the carelessness of a drunk driver , or some other person who decides to flee the scene of the crime . Both men go through hell in different ways . Dwight , suffers the guilt of his cowardly act , and Ethan , because after losing Josh , he can't stop planning to get his own justice when everything else fails him . This film was an adaptation of the novel by John Burnham Schwartz , we haven't read . It was adapted for the screen by the author and the director , Terry George , whose " Hotel Rwanda " made an impression on this viewer's mind . Mr . George makes a character study of the two fathers at a time of crisis . The ensemble cast does a good job . Mark Ruffalo comes out best as Dwight . Mr . Ruffalo clearly shows why he is one of the most versatile actors of his generation . Joaquin Phoenix , who plays Ethan , does justice to Josh's loving father . In a way , it's a shame Mr . Phoenix has decided to abandon his film career in order to pursue his music . Jennifer Connelly is Grace , the grieving mother of Josh , who sees in horror how she is losing her husband who is hellbent in avenging Josh's death . Mira Sorvino appears as Dwight's former wife , Ruth . Despite the uneasiness we felt watching this film , it is worth a look to see how an act of carelessness affects the lives of two men .
That extra bow !	20th Century Fox was no match for MGM when it came to musicals . Daryl F . Zanuk decided to gamble with this film where the talents of a Broadway star , Ethel Merman , would be showcased . Ms . Merman in spite of being the toast of Broadway , never made it big in Hollywood . After all , she was not a radiant beauty , but oh , could she belt a song that could be heard at the top of the balcony ! Phoebe and Henry Ephron were brought on board to write the screen treatment and Walter Lang directed . The musical was also blessed in that Irving Berlin's music is heard throughout in all its glory . Ms . Merman was the perfect actress to interpret the songs written by Mr . Berlin . They made a perfect duo , even though , for some viewers not used to Ethel Merman's singing style , it might prove an uneasy combination . The story is simple enough . It follows the Donahues from the early days of vaudeville through some glittering years after . Molly and Terence Donahue had two sons , Tim and Steve , and a daughter , Katy . As the children grow up , the parents ' popularity began to recede . The film deals with Tim , as a young man , as he falls for Vicky Parker , a beautiful singer who makes it big on her own . Vickie , who is more interested in her own career neglects Tim . As a result , Tim goes on his own to find himself , away from his family and Vickie . The best thing in the film is Ethel Merman . She was a legendary figure and as Molly Donahue , she is at her best . Dan Dailey was the perfect partner for Ms . Merman . Donald O'Connor is also seen doing some fine dancing . Marilyn Monroe was a lovely woman to look at . As a singer , she had a small voice , but she used it well making the songs her own . Mitzi Gaynor plays Katy . Johnnie Ray , a popular singer of that period is terribly miscast . His Steve is the worst thing in the movie . Although predictable , this film has some great things going for it . Some of the musical numbers are well staged and will not disappoint . On the whole as the camaraderie expressed by the title of the film is evident in the musical .
The jewel thief of the Casbah	Imitation is the best form of flattery . For audiences that haven't seen the far superior , " Pepe le Moko " , directed by Julien Duvivier , this version , will have to suffice . " Algiers " follows its French model in ways that it's just not a remake , it's a copy of the other film . Fortunately for John Cromwell , a fine director , he got a tremendously appealing performance by Charles Boyer , a suave actor who embodied the famous jewel thief of that notorious district of Algiers . This film was also made better thanks to the magic camera work by James Wong Howe , one of the best men in the business , as proved by his long and distinguished career behind the scenes . Henri LaBarthe's novel was adapted for this American version by John Howard Lawson , with James Cain's helping with additional dialog . " Algiers " is not without its own merits . Thanks to the talented cast that came together for the making of this film , it has gained the status of a classic . Charles Boyer was perfect as Pepe , a man whose life centers around the mysterious citadel where all kinds of unsavory characters live . Hedy Lamarr , one of the most beautiful faces in the movies , makes a good appearance as Gaby , the woman who steals Pepe's heart . Gaby and Pepe have a common ground as they reminisce of Paris , a city both love . The other triumph of " Algiers " was the way the supporting players made this story much better , as it seems impossible to visualize other people cast for the key minor parts . Sigrid Gurie , is a mysterious Ines , the woman in love with Pepe . In her love , she doesn't stop to take into consideration what her actions will do to her lover . Gene Lockhart , a magnificent character actor , is phenomenal in his take of Regis , the schemer of the Casbah . Joseph Calleia , is perfectly sly as Inspector Slimane , a man with the patience of a saint , who must humor Pepe and his gang and who is powerless inside the Casbah . Stanley Fields makes a loyal Carlos , Pepe's trusted companion . Johnny Downs is seen as Pierrot and Leonid Kinskey , another character actor who worked extensively in that period of the American cinema , is excellent as L'arbi . For those who haven't seen the original Duvivier film , try getting the wonderful DVD to see the great Jean Gabin in one of his best roles . The copy shown by TCM recently , seemed somewhat faded . We don't know if it has been remastered yet , but obviously , James Wong Howe's work ought to be seen in all its magnificence .
Forbidden clams	The story at the center of the film is the fishing for the " loco " , the prized Chilean mollusk , similar to oysters that can only be extracted from the sea at certain times . Andres Wood , the director , has based his film in a group of people in the remote island where every year this event occurs , which brings most of the money this community needs to survive . Canuto , a native of the island , is a petty criminal who associates himself with a Japanese character that wants to send most of the harvest to markets in that country , where it is a great delicacy . In order to do that , he goes to a friend from this area , now working in the capital and convinces him to go along . The few days in the island show us a cross section of the population . There is the local priest , who is also the voice in the radio soap opera ; he controls the fishing , but never realizes he is dealing with the criminal minds of Canuto and his partner . We get to see a group of prostitutes that arrive to the town and set their tent where a great deal of the locals go for relaxation . There is a great scene at the end where the suffering wives claim the ill gotten money the prostitutes will take away from them and their families . This is a small film , but it keeps the viewer involved with what's going on up to the tragic ending . The ensemble cast plays very well .
The mermaid	Frank Tashlin directed this sunny comedy that relies heavily on Doris Day , an actress who was at the height of her popularity back when this film was done . " The Glass Bottom Boat " is a fun comedy that mixes science with espionage and mistaken identities that produced a funny movie , even when watched today . Doris Day in her heyday couldn't do anything wrong , in spite of the silly premises of what was written for her . In this comedy is Jennifer Nelson , a widow , who works in the aerospace industry . The genius scientist , Bruce Templeton , likes what he sees and proceeds to pursue Jennifer , but things get complicated because it appears Mrs . Nelson is a Soviet spy . The film's pace never lets up . Doris Day is wonderful as the naive , but resourceful woman who can charm us with one of her wonderful smiles . Rod Taylor is the hunky Bruce Templeton who sees in Jennifer not only a beautiful lady , but the right one for him . The supporting cast in this movie is full of familiar faces . Paul Linde provides one of the best laughs in the movie when , as a security guard , and suspecting Jennifer of the worst , dresses in drag and follows her to the ladies ' room . Arthur Godfrey is Jennifer's father . John McGiver , Edward Anderson , Dick Martin , Dom DeLuise , Eric Fleming , Alice Pearce and George Tobias contribute to make this a fun movie . The cameo by Robert Vaughn is a surprise . The film will not disappoint fans of Doris Day .
The major and the minor	What would a confirmed bachelor , of a certain age , do with the unexpected arrival of a lively 17 years old girl into his life ? Reason would indicate to run away from the situation ! But have no fear , in the theater , as well as in the movies , these two unmatched people get to grow fond of one another and eventually they get married . That seems to be the premise of " Susan Slept Here " , a movie that proves irresistible because of the two leading stars . Under the direction of Frank Tashlin , this movie , although reflecting a naivete not in synch with the present times , is good fun to watch . The film is done with an impeccable good taste and there is never anything tawdry , or out of place with what one is watching . Dick Powell was at his best when he took the part of Mark Christopher a thirty-something man in the plot , but looking older than that . Debbie Reynolds , as Susan Landis , brought her winning personality and charm to this rebel girl that begins a total transformation as she discovers she is attracted to Mark . The supporting cast is also up to task under Mr . Tashlin's guidance . Anne Francis is seen as Isabella , Mark's present love interest . Glenda Farrell , Horace McMahon , Herb Vigran and Alvy Moore , among others make this delightful film into a winner . Mr . Tashlin includes a dance sequence that plays as a dream in which Mr . Powell , Ms . Francis and Ms . Reynolds are seen as the players . The film is festive and it will delight any viewer looking for an easy time at the movies .
Behind the mirror	Having only seen " Valentin " , directed by Alejandro Agresti , we had high hopes for this film , which was completed before this one . Mr . Agresti shows he knows what he is doing in adapting Pedro Mairal's novel to the screen . We are taken to the small town in the interior of Argentina to meet Daniel , a young man who is bored with his job at the chicken processing plant where he works , and with his life . He is always late , and his boss lets him know . The highlight of his existence is watching a television program where Sabrina Love , a porn star , invites her viewers to enter a contest to spend a night with her , selected from the best letter she receives about what the winner would like to do with her . Daniel's parents have been killed in a tragic accident when the truck they used for the business suffers an accident . Daniel is the winner ! He has little money and must travel far in order to receive his prize . We watch him on the road that also involves swimming from one of the boats that traverse a big river . Along the way , he meets a few people , like the hoodlums that terrorize him and take his money . He also encounters a kind trucker who advises him on having safe sex and gives him condoms . Also , Carmelo , an unemployed man who befriends him and tells him about the perils of the big city . Daniel has a brother in Buenos Aires . Enrique , is gay , and lives with a woman photographer , as her assistant . Daniel has not told Enrique about their parents ' death . When he finally gets to meet Sabrina Love , he is in a state of bliss , although his involvement with her will be short lived . In the end , in spite of having had his first sexual experience , Daniel feels lost within Buenos Aires and decides the city is not for him . In the process , Daniel learns a lot about himself and the world outside his little town . Tomas Fonzi is wonderful as Daniel , the young guy who grows up suddenly after he takes a trip of discovery . Cecilia Roth makes another excellent appearance in this film . Fabian Bena , who plays the gay Enrique , is also good . Mario Paolucci , is Carmelo . Giancarlo Giannini and Norma Aleandro have small parts in the film . Alejandro Agresti shows he had a vision in bringing all the elements together in this winning film .
The interpretation of dreams	At the end of a lecture about the subject of the interpretation of dreams , Natalia , a beautiful young woman , rises to ask a question . Natalia talks about the strange dreams she has been having . In them , Natlia sees a black monolith with some markings on it . She would like to hear something about it , but she doesn't learn anything new . At the same time , Beatriz , who works at the center , faints . Alex , who has attended the event , becomes interested in Natalia . He tracks her down . At the same time , he is called by Beatriz , who also wants to get the other woman's phone . Beatriz , who has a strange tattoo , that seems to be a copy of what Natalia describes about her dreams . Alex and Natalia begin a torrid romance , but Beatriz is always around as Natalia's life begins to unravel . Everything then points out to an unfortunate love affair Beatriz had with Javier . Beatriz and Natalia have a lot more in common than really meets the eye . Antonio Fernadez , the director , who also worked on the screen play with Enrique Brasso , shows an unique style to capture the essence of this enjoyable film that starts out as a mystery , but ultimately , the suspense is only until the viewer finds out the real reason for one of the characters avenge something that connects with the past . Laia Marull , who we loved in " Te doy mis ojos " , appears as Beatriz , the girl that is the key to solving the puzzle . Ms . Marull keeps getting better and better , as she shows here . The lovely Angie Cepeda makes an impression as Natalia , the girl with the horrible dreams . Leonardo Sbaraglia appears as Alex . " Oculto " has a great look thanks to Unax Medina excellent camera work . Antonio Fernandez shows again he is a man to reckoned with .
Unknown masterpieces	Jim Amatulli , the director of " Artworks " has created a film with a visual style that is appealing , as well as pleasing to the eye . The film , although flawed , will entertain thanks to Mr . Amatulli's eye for detail and the enormous appeal of all the principals in it . If you haven't seen the picture , please stop reading now . Virginia Madsen is an interesting actress to watch . Ms . Madsen hasn't had the success she deserves . She's a natural who makes all the characters she plays come to life . In here she's the tormented soul who loses a baby at the beginning of the film as well as her marriage to a man she has stopped loving . Emma Becker loves to paint . She also has an eye for finding neglected masterpieces in the homes of rich suburbanites where she goes to help set alarm systems . Her father is the chief of police . Emma is at a low point of her life when we meet her . Enter Brett , the gallery owner . He sees in Emma a possible partner for getting into the homes of the rich people and stealing some of their treasures . With the help of Corey , the gallery assistant , they have a sure set up . The problem with the screen play is that it has a lot of holes in it . We know how it will end . When Emma is confronted with the facts of the crime that points out to her , she doesn't fight back , but promise to cooperate and get the others involved , at the expense of losing the man she has come to love and has given her another lease on life . Virginia Madsen , as Emma , makes an excellent contribution to the film . Rick Rossovich , as Brett , brings a mixture of sex and mystery to his gallery owner . Both actors are seen in intimate ways that are done in perfect taste . We get the passion and the heat going on between them in a way that under another director would have seemed tacky and gross . " Artworks " , while predictable , shows a new talent who will probably go to do great work in the near future . This picture is richly textured with brilliant colors .
111 Everglades	Never having seen this movie , based on the entertaining novel by Nicholas Katzenbach , and taking into consideration the first rate cast assembled for the production , we decided to take a look . " Just Cause " , while not a horrible film , takes too many liberties with the original material that Jeb Stuart didn't quite succeed in his treatment . Arne Glimcher directed . The first thing we think when a young black man is hauled to the local precinct for interrogation is police brutality . After all , sheriff Tanny Brown , and police officer Wilcox , show no mercy in beating Bobby Earl , who is accused of killing a young white girl . We feel horrified by what the officers do to the prisoner . Then , the scene changes . Evangeline , Bobby Earl's grandmother is sent north to ask a distinguished Harvard professor , a retired lawyer , the young man wants Paul Armstrong to defend him . She old woman is convincing enough for Armstrong to take a look at the case . He is also convinced of the young man's innocence . Things are not exactly what we thought they were . When Blair Sullivan , a man who is serving time in the same facility as Bobby Earl , comes forward to tell about how he is connected to the young girl's murder , and changes the dynamics of the case . The way it plays in the movie , it serves to confuse the viewer and distract Armstrong from arriving at the truth . This thriller is made enjoyable by Sean Connery , who plays Armstrong . Laurence Fishburne , an intense actor , makes a fine impression as the Sheriff who , as far as we can see , is guilty of abusing his prisoner . Ed Harris has a wonderful opportunity to show why he is one of our best actors . Blair Underwood , Kate Capshaw , Ruby Dee and the young Scarlett Johansson are seen in supporting roles . The film , even with its faults , will not disappoint .
Three for the road	" Love Field " was a film that came and went without much fanfare . It was shown on cable recently , so we decided to take a chance with it . Jonathan Kaplan makes an impression with his unusual take on the subject of the race relations in the United States of the early 60s that pays a great deal of respect to the era in which it takes place . The film shows how things were in this country in the years where segregation was still enforced in the land . If you haven't watched the movie , please stop reading now . Lurene , the young woman at the center of the story was in awe of Mrs . Jacqueline Kennedy . The former first lady had such magnetic quality and charisma that it was easy to see why she was so admired and imitated by all women in America in the early 60s . After all , Mrs . Kennedy was royalty in a country that supposedly has no class differences . Jackie's sense of style was imitated by most women ; after all , she was an elegant , vibrant and youthful woman who all wanted to adore . The story presents a situation that rings false from the beginning . Lurene was only a step above of what would be considered white trash , therefore , her relationship with Paul Cater and Jonell , is hard to believe because of the woman's background . Lurene is kind hearted , but one wonders to what extend would someone in her station in life would have done in a real situation like the director presents in the picture . As far as what we watch in the film , making allowances for Lurene's open mind and understanding about segregation and discrimination , the movie is easy to watch . In pairing Michelle Pfeiffer with a handsome Dennis Haysbert , who has already been seen in a similar role in " Far from Heaven " , one can see why these two lost souls were attracted to one another . We can understand Lurene's sense of decency , as well as Paul's falling for Lurene when reason and logic would tell him to stay away from this white woman . Even in the big Northern cities where racial discrimination was not as blatant as in the deep South , integrated couples were a rarity in the early 60s . Michelle Pfeiffer makes a compelling Lurene , the girl who is a decent human being . This role is a stretch for Ms . Pfeiffer , an actress not associated with dramatic parts that make such demands on her . Dennis Haysbert is good as the troubled Paul , a man that only wants to do his best for this daughter he is bringing back to Philadelphia . Stephanie McFadden is sweet as the young girl who can't comprehend what's going on around her . Finally , Louise Latham , as Mrs . Enright , is the only one that shows any decency to the situation in which she gets involved against her will . While the movie doesn't break any grounds in racial relations , at least it has the courage to show how wrong segregation was and how prevalent it was in the United States .
A Christmas story	Gina and Seth have been corresponding for thirteen years . Their friendship started in school when they entered a program of pen pals . They have never seen each other , both are shy people that hide behind their letters , at first , then behind computers , writing endless emails and instant messages about their daily lives . The only thing is neither of them has been true to the other . Gina has sent pictures of her friend Ellen to Seth , making him believe she is the other person . Seth , also has been deceitful in that he has passed his best friend Matt's picture as being himself . When the opportunity arises that at last the corresponding friends would have a chance to meet face to face , they panic . The real reason for trying to hide behind their friends ' persona is because they are desperately in love with one another . " Christmas in Boston " , also known as " Instant Message " in some countries , is a pleasant film to sit through because of the work Neill Fearnley has been able to create with the help of his young cast of appealing young actors . This is a small television made film that is better than one expected it to be . The case of mistaken identities work to bring the correspondents and their best friends together unwillingly . Marla Sokoloff and Patrick J . Adams , who appear as Gina and Seth , are fresh faces that project a wholesome glow on the film . The multi talented Lindy Booth runs away with the film though . Her Ellen provides Ms . Booth with an opportunity to shine . As she proved with her work in previous work , and in " Dark Honeymoon " , Ms . Booth is a natural and a welcome addition to any project . Jonathan Cherry rounds up the cast and has also excellent moments to shine . As Christmas movies go , this one is to be enjoyed because of the good job Mr . Fearnley did with the material .
Kidnapped	The great railway stations of the first half of the 20th century , were the equivalent of today's airports . Los Angeles ' Union Station , was one of the best examples of how these places worked and how it was the center of people moving in the country during that period in which aviation was still in its infancy . The station is the setting for the story in which the film is based . Directed by Rudolph Mate , who was a great cinematographer himself , we are taken to witness this interesting thriller that still holds its interest after more than a half a century since it was made . Mr . Mate confided his colleague , Daniel Fapp , to photograph the action that takes place in the tunnels , boarding and waiting areas of the station . William Holden was at the top of the profession . He is seen as Det . William Calhoun , who is in charge of security . Nancy Olson , makes an interesting appearance opposite Mr . Holden as a young secretary who reports to the authorities what she witnessed on an inbound train . Barry Fitzgerald , who plays the police inspector in charge , contributes to the success of the film . Best of all Lyle Bettger , an actor that made his specialty out of the shady characters he was called to play . Jan Sterling has a small , but pivotal part . " Union Station " is worth looking as it reflects that period of time in America . Ultimate the station is the real star of the film where we see it in all its splendor .
Sofabed	The main reason for watching this film was the presence of Cecilia Roth , one of the better known actresses from Argentina , whose career has taken her to different countries . Not knowing anything about " Sofacama " , we decided to take a chance on it when it showed on cable recently . Director Ulises Rosell , whose work we had not seen before , proves he is a man with good ideas , like it's the case with this feature . Unfortunately , we lose our interest as the film progresses because it appears many takes were improvised . The idea of a teen ager falling in love with an older woman is not exactly a novelty . We have seen it before , with a better execution . Young Leo , who lives with his mother , Bernie , and two brothers , sees his life interrupted with the arrival of her friend , Carmen , into their messy Buenos Aires household . Leo lusts after the shapely Carmen , especially in the early scenes when she is made to sleep in the living room sofa . Leo's mind is not on the television program he pretends to watch , but in the body of the attractive woman curled in a fetal position to his left . Little does Carmen know that the sofa opens up into a bed . Bernie , the mother , is a woman without a man . She has to hustle to make ends meet . She seems to care for her three sons , although she doesn't seem to realize , or perhaps she keeps a blind eye about the way Leo is affected by the arrival of Carmen . Cecilia Roth does an effective job as Bernie . Ms . Roth always projects a great deal of intelligence in any character she plays , as is the case here . Martin Piroyansky , who is seen as Leo , underplays his role with felicitous results ; this young actor's take on his character rings true . The shapely Maria Fernanda Callejon also contributes to the success of the film .
The tap dance kid is footloose Down Under	Most of the negative comments about this film seem to come from its birth place , Australia . Frankly , " Bootmen " is not a horrible movie by any stretch of the imagination . The film shows some originality in the way the director Dein Perry sets the film in the steel works factory that is about to close and having Sean and his mates practice in another abandoned place that seems to be saying a lot about how industries do away with people that have given their best to make them better . Adam Garcia , playing Sean , is one of the best things in the film . The other asset is Sam Worthington , who plays Mitch , the brother that seems to attract trouble wherever he goes . Also , Sophie Lee , as the brothers ' love interest makes an effective contribution to the movie . The dancing numbers reminded us of Stomp , the musical that has been playing here for a long time now , in that unusual ways of tap dancing are practiced on the most unconventional ways , which makes " Bootmen " more likable . The best way to watch the film is to sit back , relax , and let it unfold , as it will win the viewer over with the inspired tap dancing .
My kind of town , Chicago	This remake of " Coney Island " has director Henry Koster taking the action to Chicago at the turn of the last century . Perhaps the change of locale was an attempt to mask the fact this was a film already done before with only a few years of difference . The cast assembled for this film is colorful . Victor Mature is Andy , an enterprising young man who has an eye for the finer things in life . Betty Grable makes the most of her role with Ruby , the star at the center of the action . Both Mr . Mature and Ms . Grable prove to be a winning combination in the way they interact with each other . Phil Harris is seen as Mike , who is in love with Ruby . There is a hilarious scene in which a poker game is taken place in which is clearly Mike has cheated , but there's no proof of it . He should have six cards in his possession , but when he shows them to everyone in the table there are the allowed five . A moment later we realize what has happened to the sixth one ! Reginald Gardiner , James Barton and Margaret Hamilton make excellent contributions to the film . The songs reflect the period in which the action takes place . It's surprising also the Technicolor used in the film doesn't look faded .
But is it art ?	The subject of this wonderful documentary , Spencer Tunick , was a surprise when it was shown on cable recently . The controversial artist is seen in an uncanny account of the way he works by the director of the film , Arleene Donnelly Nelson . We watch as the photographer travels to different countries in order to capture in film humans that pose against impressive backgrounds naked . Mr . Tunick speaks candidly about his ideas and how he goes about it . In interviews we see some of his subjects discussing before hand their ideas and reservations . It's surprising that Mr . Tunick is able to get the hundreds of people to pose for him " en masse " without so much of a problem . His shoot in front of the Cutty Sark , a London landmark , is one of the best pictures we see in the film . At the same time , it surprises how the Parisian guards of the Louvre come after him when he tried to photograph a naked man in the museum's courtyard with the I . M . Pei pyramid in the background . We are shocked , in a way , because if anyone , in our minds , should be more understanding , would be the French ! The pictures are not pornographic at all ! We see ordinary people posing nude , but there is no desire whatsoever to project anything sexual to the would be viewer , in any way . The people posing for Mr . Tunick do so out of their own free will , as no one is pressured to do otherwise . After watching the film , we get an understanding of the artist and his vision .
A good man is hard to find	Douglas Sirk was a director who loved melodramas . He was one of the best men around to add gloss to those larger than life stories the movie going public loved to see , as demonstrated by the movies he left behind . By today's standards , " Imitation of Life " , looks like an exercise in high camp judging by all the elements that went into the making of a soap opera that doesn't deal with reality well . Fannie Hurst wrote many of these romantic stories in which her heroines were always larger than life . Which is the point of this movie , Lora Meredith , a struggling actress , of a certain age , will conquer all the obstacles that will come her way by sheer determination and resolve . Along the way , she will get a free live-in maid who becomes her best friend , raise a daughter , find love , lose a hunk of a guy , then at the end , reclaim him and live happily ever after . They certainly don't make movies like that anymore ! What's basically wrong with the story is that few things turn out this well in real life . The 1959 version of the Fannie Hurst book had already made it to the movies in an early picture starring Claudette Colbert . This new take on the novel was a vehicle clearly tailor-made for Lana Turner , who was at the height of her beauty in a mature kind of way . She was a natural that the camera loved . Ms . Turner was lovingly dressed by Jean Louis . Everything is impeccable in the way the star carries herself as a struggling mother who has not been employed in a while to the days in which she is the toast of Broadway . Juanita Moore , among the cast members , had the best moments . Her Annie Johnson was perhaps the best character she played . Susan Kohner , a young actress who showed promise , is also good as the mean Sarah Jane , the ungrateful daughter who is a freak of nature by appearing white when she is really black . John Gavin plays Lora's love interest . Robert Alda is good as the man responsible for giving Lora a start in the business . Sandra Dee is seen as Susie , the teenager who also has her eyes set on the man that loves her mother . Among the supporting players we get a glimpse of Troy Donahue and Jack Weston . " Imitation of Life " is Douglas Sirk's contribution to the soap opera with a superior visual style .
And all that jazz	Francis Ford Coppola's vision of the fabled Cotton Club comes to life in this film . Mr . Coppola made a visually stunning film that focus on the old days in the famous Harlem night club that was the place where a lot of black stars got their start in show business . The film concentrates in the mobsters that were running all the rackets in Harlem , rather than in what was going on at the club . The setting is just a pretext for the story . By concentrating in the white gangsters , the story suffers . It's only when the action switches to the black performers working at the Cotton Club that some life comes into the screen . The film , as a canvas , is interesting to see , but some of the vignettes don't work . The Dixie Dwyer of Richard Gere doesn't go anywhere . Mr . Gere is a bland presence amid all the violence around him . Nicolas Cage's Vincent Dwyer seems like an after thought . On the other hand , the great Gregory Hines and Lonette McKee shine as a pair of black performers that find themselves in love . The movie also points out to the discrimination the Cotton Club regulars received from the whites in charge of running the place . As a whole , the film is entertaining , but it doesn't break any new ground .
Ticklish	" Kickoff " , part of Hal Roach Boy Friend series , is an entertaining one-reeler directed with great style by George Stevens . The director shows that even at this early stage of his career , he had a knack for presenting his stories and getting his audience involved in what they were watching , as it's the case in this funny tale about football when it was in its infancy . The story about centers about how even then , bad guys were betting in the results of the game . What they don't count on is the way that Mickey , who is asked to step into the game , is instrumental in the victory . Mickey , whose hair has been half eaten by the team's mascot , proves that in spite of being ticklish he can deliver . The last part of this short film is pure slapstick as the team comes to the rescue of their kidnapped coach . Mickey Daniels and Grady Sutton are the main reason for watching the film .
Promises promises	Robert Altman's " A Wedding " was shown recently on cable . Having seen it when it was first released , I was curious as to how it kept after all these years . Being an admirer of Mr . Altman's work , it was worth watching again , although the movie seems a bit too long on second viewing . Mr . Altman brings two families into a formal wedding that are as dissimilar as oil and water . The groom's family is old money and the bride's is new money , perhaps , although the latter one seem to be out of place . The immediate reaction is : why are these two people marrying ? Frankly , it makes no sense , at all . We are treated to a wedding reception from hell ! The wedding party as well as some of the few guests that attend the reception are an odd lot indeed . Logic would indicate that if a wedding is at the center of the story , the bride and the groom should be more prominently focused , but this being an Altman film , they are not as important as the people around them . There is the old matriarch with no sense of time , at all ! Then there is the old bishop that might be in the beginning states of dementia . The old family doctor who likes to touch all females ' breasts . We have a wedding planner who has no sense of style . The mother of the bride is swept off her feet by the uncle of the groom in a hysterical sequence . The sister of the bride also had relations with the groom and his class at the military academy ! We get to spy on most conversations . Mr . Altman makes us silent witnesses to what is going on behind the scenes . This is his device for telling his story ; he lets us hear snippets of conversation to get an idea of what is really going on . " A Wedding " is a minor Altman . Somehow this story doesn't grab the viewer the same way as some of his best pictures , but it's a fun ride all the same . At the end we have learned the secrets of the two families and frankly , most of it was not that interesting . That is why , perhaps , this movie , although it tries , never found a wider audience when it came out in 1978 . This film is for Altman fans , mainly .
Behind bars	Perhaps one of the best reasons for not committing a crime that will send the perpetrator to jail is to consider what life behind bars is really like . That is what a spoiled man , Nelson Biederman IV , doesn't take into consideration when he defies the law just because he thinks he is above it ! Little does he know John Lishitski wants revenge for all Nelson and his kind has done to him . When Nelson Biederman IV lands in prison , Lishitski manages to become his cell mate to make things worse for this spoiled brat who thinks only about himself . The indignities that go on in places such as the one these men are confined will prove the downfall for even stronger men . Biederman is in the end a stronger man from his own experience among the hard criminals . Bob Oldenkirk directed this satire about life in prison . Will Arnett and Dax Shepard are Biederman and Lishitski respectively . Both do good work for the director . Chi McBride is seen as Barry , the con with a soft heart despite his menacing exterior . Dylan Baker is also in the cast as the warden .
Hoop dreams	Paul Michael Glasser's " The Air up There " is a fun film to watch , knowing full well what to expect . It doesn't break new barriers , or brings anything new to this type of film , but it is a totally harmless time in front of the television . Not having seen it in its commercial run , we had a chance to enjoy it the other night when it turned up on cable . The best thing , as usual , going for this film is Kevin Bacon . Mr . Bacon makes anything he plays in an enjoyable experience . No matter what he does , he is totally believable , as is the case with his role as this coach , Jimmy Dolan , who will go to any extreme in order to get a good basket ball player for his team at Saint Joseph's . His African journey gives Jimmy Dolan a first eye view of the poverty and hardship the young men in the remote village have to endure . He realizes the potential , especially in Saleh , the young man he wants to bring back to America . Both Mr . Bacon and Charles Gitonga Maina , who plays Saleh , have an easy time together bonding in a hostile environment . Their inter action makes the film enjoyable . Also , the mostly unknown supporting cast compliment the movie . Granted , this is a film to watch only for entertainment and to enjoy Kevin Bacon at his most charming self .
Fresh prince of Manhattan	Not having seen the film in its commercial debut , we just caught with it via DVD . Expecting the worst , " Hitch " proved to be a pleasant experience because of the three principals in it . Thanks to Andy Tenant's direction , the film has an easy pace , and while predictable , the comedy has some winning moments . Hitch is a sort of " date coordinator " for losers like Albert , who is not exactly what one would consider a hunk . Yet , Albert is a genuine guy who , without some professional help would go unnoticed by the same women he would like to take out . Enter Hitch , to prepare him to overcome the obstacles that he can't overcome , and even though Albert stays overweight and never gets to master social graces , he conquers us because he is a real , in sharp contrast with all the phonies making the rounds in Manhattan . The basic mistake most production designers make , when preparing locales for Hollywood films , is how out of touch with reality they are . The apartments in which they situate these characters are so rare to find that only by the magic of the movies can these people live in places likes these . Evidently most of the movie people are dealing with fantasy since most city dwellers would kill for spaces so fabulous as the ones they show in the movies , let alone these same people depicted in the film would not be able to afford them . Will Smith is a charismatic actor . He has a disarming way to charm without doing much . The surprise of the movie though , is Kevin James , who as the overweight Albert , not only win us over , but he proves he can hold his own in his scenes with Mr . Smith . Eva Mendez is fine as the main interest of Hitch . In minor roles we see Adam Arkin , Amber Valletta , Michael Rappaport , and Phillip Bosco , among others . " Hitch " is a fun film to watch thanks to the inspired direction by Andy Tenant .
Adventures in babysitting	" Jack and Sarah " , the delightful comedy directed by Tim Sullivan , was shown recently on cable . The appeal of the film lies largely in the fabulous cast that was put together . Mr . Sullivan delivers a ' feel good ' movie that will warm hearts for viewers of all ages . When Jack's wife dies , suddenly , he is left alone with an infant girl . Jack has no clue about what to do with the baby . His life goes into a tailspin . Enter his kind parents and former mother-in-law . They all have ideas about what to do with Sarah , but Jack ends up resenting their interference . That's when he has the bright idea of getting a nanny for little Sarah . Amy , the girl he hires , is probably the wrong kind for the job . Little does Jack know , Amy doesn't have a clue about children , let alone , how to handle them . The only thing that is clear is that Amy loves her little charge . Amy and Sarah seem to have been made for one another . Jack warms up to the babysitter and they find one another in love because of Sarah . Richard E . Grant is a versatile actor . He is tremendously appealing as the confused father of a baby he was not prepared to handle . Samantha Mathis makes an endearing Amy , the girl that steals Jack's heart . Judi Dench , Eileen Atkins , Ian McKellen are seen in in supporting roles that add great charm to the film . This is a fun film thanks to Tim Sullivan .
The green , green grass of home	" The Sea of Grass " showed up on cable recently and out of curiosity , we watched it , based on the great director at the helm , and the cast involved in it . Unfortunately , Elia Kazan wasn't up to the task of directing the Conrad Richter novel about the post pioneering days . In fact , this film sort of falls flat as neither Mr . Kazan , or its stars , show any semblance they were much interested in the project . One would imagine that to bring together Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn to play the leading roles would inspire the rest of the cast , but alas , it wasn't meant to be . The film is , by no means , a total failure , on the contrary , but there are no sparks in it to keep the viewer interested . As someone remarked in this forum , we don't get anything from the Colonel and Lutie in the way of love , from the start . For the romance they were living on the sly , the stars don't light up for the camera to give us a hint they are in love in real life . The only one that shows any spunk is Melvin Douglas , who as Brock , can't hide his love for Lutie . The supporting cast is good , with some excellent minor performances by Phyllis Thaxter , Edgar Buchanan , Ruth Nelson , James Bell , and the rest . Watch " The Sea of Grass " if there's nothing better playing at the same time .
Girls just wanna have fun !	Austin Chick has done wonders with " XX / XY " . It's almost as though he is working in solving a mathematical equation . In the process , he makes us follow the three principals , Coles , Maya and Thea throughout almost ten years to see what become of the characters . Mr . Chick is a film maker in tune with young people , their language , their interplay , and their sexual discoveries . In securing the services of Mark Ruffalo for the pivotal role of Coles , the director is blessed as well with wonderful performances all around . Mr . Ruffalo has become one of the best actors working in the American cinema . He always bring such an intensity to everything he does , but in a subtle and quiet way . We always know what's going on with this man because he expresses everything with gestures that are always right . There's never a moment wrong in Mr . Ruffalo's portrayal of Coles . The story begins in 1993 as the original friends , Coles , Thea and Maya explore their sexual awakenings in unorthodox ways . Coles is the man who lusts after both room mates , but it's obvious that Maya is the one that gets the best of him until their separation . As the story turns to the present time . We see Coles in a relationship with Claire , the ' together ' young woman who seems secure enough with Coles never to pressure him into a marriage , because she feels he is committed to staying with her . Their life together suddenly takes a spin with the reemergence of Maya , who has been away in London all these years . Her presence unravels Coles to the point of betrayal to Claire . It is Claire who gets the last laugh as she confronts Coles to tell him how ahead of the game she really is . The last scene is enigmatic . We watch Coles and Claire standing by the door . Coles is trying to hold it open , but Claire succeeds in closing it , and as a chapter in their relationship has ended . The two principals , Maya Strange , as Sam , and Kathleen Robertson , as Thea , are excellent as the college girls that love to have fun . However , one has a feeling that it's Petra Wright , who plays Claire , that gives the strongest performance . Ms . Wright has a luminous aura about her ; she overshadows the others . One realizes that Coles needs her and she loves him . Bravo to Austin Chick for a job well done .
Art class	Jerome , the young man at the center of this story , changes his suburban existence for the art scene being taught at Strathmore's , a place that should be avoided like the plague . Jerome , who has been the butt of all the bullies in suburbia soon discovers the big city is not exactly prepared to accept him , or his art . Jerome is an insecure young man who learns quickly his art professors see things in a different fashion , as is the case with Mr . Sandiford , an artist himself , who tries to discourage the young people in his class at any given moment . In a way , Sandiford , who is also a mediocre painter , can't stand the competition of the bright new would be artists that he is supposed to teach and mold . The young man becomes entranced by a beautiful young female model , Audrey , who doesn't realize she is the object of Jerome's affections . Since he is not attracting any compliments from the teacher , Jerome decides to take some of the eccentric Jimmy's drawings to make collages and present them as his own , without any positive reaction from anyone . He is also instrumental in the fire that consumes the dilapidated building in which Jimmy lives . Terry Zwigoff , whose previous films have dealt with off beat characters in films such as " Crumb " , and " Ghost Life " , doesn't quite make it with his take on Jerome . Working with his screen writer , Daniel Clowes , he doesn't quite pull it off . Max Minghella plays Jerome , the potential artist who doesn't seem to believe in his own talent . Best thing in the film is John Malkevich , who plays Sandiford , with perfect pitch . Jim Broadbent is perfect as Jimmy , a man who has given up on his art and on life . Sophie Myles is an enigma as Audrey because she seems lifeless in her role . One can only wish Terry Zwigoff better luck next time .
The loot	Jack McCallister is a professional criminal who manages a caper in which most of his men are gunned down during an encounter with the police after they have done the job . Jack manages to conceal the money away from all the people that wants a part of it . This includes his two sons , George , who like his father has been in jail for the crimes he has committed , and Michael , a small time con man , who is too shy to follow his old man , or his brother . " Hand Gun " , directed by Whitney Ransick , is a film that takes a lighter approach to what we see in the movie . Mr . Ransick , who also wrote the screen play , has done a good job with this story that is more of a comedy , than a heavy take a la Tarantino . There is enough blood to parallel those other films , but Mr . Ransick keeps that light touch throughout the picture . The main reason for watching this movie is the cast that was assembled . Treat Williams and Paul Schulze play George and Michael McCallister , two brothers that are as different as day and night . Could both have been sired by Jack McCallister ? Well , in many ways , the answer is yes . They have a knack for engaging in crime , each in a different style . The excellent Seymour Cassel plays the father . The supporting cast is also a delight to watch . Michael Imperioli , Michael Rappaport , Frank Vincent , John Ventimiglia , Anna Leon , and the rest , give a lot to make this a fine movie , with an ironic twist , a great way to spend time watching it . For lovers of the genre , they will not be disappointed if they approach this movie without any expectations . Let Mr . Ransick work his way to you with these diverse low lives characters doing unexpected things .
Circumstantial evidence	This film , as a curiosity piece , has its own rewards , but it has a dated feeling about it that even a director like Mervyn Leroy and his screenplay adapter , another would-be-director , Robert Rossen , can't overcome . This tragedy has been told in different ways before , as it's was a sensational crime story . The resentment in the South over the defeat during the Civil War took ages to heal . In the film we are shown a small town where prejudice is a way of life because of ignorance . It's a story that still resonates because it feeds into the ambitions of raising stars in politics , as they tend to associate themselves with the kind of yellow journalism that will do everything to ruin lives and in this case send an innocent man to his death . Sadly , Mr . Leroy chose to direct the film telling his actors to emote , as he obviously had no way to reining some of the performances . What comes across in the screen is uneven acting , in general . An excellent actor like Claude Rains ' account of his character , the evil D . A . , Andy Griffin , goes for histrionics , instead of having him play the part as a sly and suave man who will stop at nothing to get what he wants . Maybe it was the style Mr . Leroy wanted to convey , but for today's viewers , this looks a bit too intense . Then there is the accused man , Professor Hale . As played by Edward Norris , we see a man that knowing he is innocent , accepts his fate without rebelling , or giving an impression that he will do anything to prove he is the wrong man . Or perhaps it was the filmmakers intention to give the film that tone of despair , as it's obvious this man is doomed from the beginning . He is the victim of circumstantial evidence that is piled against him by the power of the so called newspapers in town that are controlled by Griffin , intent in calling the attention to the fact Hale is a Northener , therefore , an enemy . The acting , in general , with a few exceptions , is pathetic , that is , by today's more sophisticated tastes . It doesn't make much sense to see an Elisha Cook Jr . , with a terrible Southern accent , who appears to be a closet case , cast as the murdered girl's boyfriend . The only welcome sight is a young and still raw Lana Turner in her screen first appearance . This film is worth watching only to see Ms . Turner walking from the parade site to the college . No wonder she was dubbed " The sweater girl " .
The right ingredients for a French omelet	Anthony Wayne , an executive in a financial institution , receives an offer he can't refuse : he is hired by a prestigious French company and must relocate to Paris , not too shabby a deal , for anyone ! His apartment in New York is a mess , something his cleaning lady reminds him of , when she comes to clean it . In Paris , Anthony is in awe of all the beautiful and elegant women he meets anywhere . He is at a loss , when he discovers the gorgeous Nicole . As he follows her , Anthony discovers she has a big problem : she can't control her bratty daughter Marie , who terrorizes all the maids Nicole employs . He has the brilliant idea to have himself hired as the new maid , in order to be next to Nicole , but what he doesn't realize , is that he has gotten more than what he bargained for . This romantic comedy , which we never knew existed , is a pleasant way to spend ninety minutes . One realizes what will happen from beginning to end , but we are lured by the fine work of the two principals of the film . Director Ian Toynton delivers a sort of French omelet that is light and delicious . Martin Sheen plays Anthony , the transplanted American who didn't realize Nicole would be employed in real life in Nicole's firm . He makes a wonderful waiter who must serve dinner to his real boss and a company of sophisticated corporate types without being discovered . Jacqueline Bisset , is also marvelous in the role of Nicole . Ms . Bisset is one of the most beautiful actresses , with a timeless beauty that is quite unmatched by her contemporaries . Jean-Pierre Cassel is C . P . the boss of Nicole and Anthony . Victoria Shalet , is the bratty Marie , who changes her attitude and become human as Anthony doesn't take any nonsense from her . This is a sunny comedy that will charm the viewer that is looking for an easy and relaxing time with a film .
A trip to the end of the world	Ushuaia , at the extreme south end of Argentina is the setting for this story , which starts in Buenos Aires . It involves a chance meeting between a man and a woman who don't know about each other's existence , but fate will bring them together to this remote part of the country , where Teresa , the flight attendant , has a layover . Julian , a taciturn doctor , will meet the love of his life in Teresa . They will have a night of love and then go in different directions . They will come together at the end , when we see them on a flight where Teresa is just another passenger . Director Daniel Burman's film is a strange one . The screen play , which he co-wrote with Emiliano Torres , a frequent collaborator , bears no similarity with his previous films which have the urban setting of Buenos Aires as the background . By bringing Teresa and Julian to this forgotten town in the middle of the winter , the director gives us a strange story that flourishes in this most hostile , yet gorgeous , environment . Where Mr . Burman succeeds is in the way he uses his actors to give wonderful performances . Ingrid Rubio , a Spanish actress who has worked in Argentina before , is wonderful as the flight attendant . Same goes for Alfredo Casero , an actor who exudes kindness as he and Teresa fall for one another . Even the supporting players add to the story . Emilio Disi is the mechanic who steals parts from the planes he services at the local airport in order to build his own dream craft . Valentina Bassi is also effective . Daniel Hendler , in a small role as a taxi driver , has two excellent scenes in the film . Norma Aleandro , one of the best actresses from Argentina appears briefly as Teresa's mother . This film shows a mature Daniel Burman doing what he does best .
The Importance of being Oscar	One wonders if the play where this film is based could have been played by an all male cast in drag since the material lends itself to it . Director Oliver Parker's approach to the the story is so heavy handed that there's actually no fun in what's going on . The end result is just plain silly . The actors in the film are attractive , but the story , as presented on the screen , is just so boring , that instead of amusing , it induces the spectator to fall asleep , as witnessed by this writer , on a screening at the Angelika in New York , a few weeks ago . Having seen the play a few times on stage in London , this version pales in comparison to the worst staging of the work . One wonders what Mr . Wilde would have thought of the film . Maybe he would have decided to re-write it with an all male cast in it , writing a much lighter screenplay a bit more " gayer " and this would have been an occasion for everybody to go enjoy it .
Guess who's coming to dinner	Imagine the spot Bert , an office employee , puts his wife Carrie when he announces he is bringing his boss , Mr . Mason , to dinner . That , by itself , would mean a lot of preparations in order to impress the boss . At stake , is a new position in the shipping department , something that Bert would like to be considered . At the height of the Great Depression , this proposition could drive a wife to commit suicide . How is Carrie going to get everything for dinner and make a good impression ? When Bert arrives with Mr . Mason , he introduces him to Carrie . Everything seems to be in order . When they sit to dinner , the only beverage Carrie has is some ginger ale ! Mr . Mason proceeds to ask Bert his opinion about who is the best candidate for the job . When he names someone else , Bert tells his boss he has made a wise decision , even though he is hurting inside for being overlooked . Mr . Mason smells something burning , and sure enough , the dinner has been burned ! What else could go wrong ? Carrie questions Mr . Mason about why has he denied Bert the promotion , as she breaks down feeling their chances escape her husband . It's at this time that Mr . Mason decides to go back to town and he takes a moment to explain to Bert that he has something much better for him because he has taken the right approach and he has put the business needs ahead of his own . This Vitaphone one reel packs a lot of ideas in a short time . Directed by Arthur Hurley , this short film should be seen by people trying to get ahead in the business world . Of course , times have changed and it's a different environment ; no one today could believe in the way Bert reacts , but obviously , the person that really mattered took notice of his sacrifice . Sylvia Sidney , in one of her earliest appearances , plays Carrie , the wife that dares to question her husband's boss . Lynne Overman is good as Bert , and Berton Churchill is Mr . Mason .
Along came Polly	John Marquand didn't deserve to have his novel turned into this film , which was probably a vehicle for its star , Barbara Stanwyck . Mr . Marquand was a writer whose books were popular and some of them endured the passing of time . It appears that MGM asked screen writer Luther Davis to transform the novel into something that the book was not . Under the direction of Robert Z . Leonard , one gets the impression this was a movie to show us how a woman in love can throw away all the comforts and perks of her wealthy life for a man that could not make a decent living to keep her in style . It doesn't make sense that Tom sweeps Polly off her feet by their first encounter in that " divine " little bistro in the Village , circa 1940s . Polly in furs and Tom in rags , give me a break ! It would be laughable with today's audiences . Barbara Stanwyck and Van Hefiln , by the magic of the celluloid never age ; if anything they get better looking . Ms . Stanwyck was a marvelous actress with the right material , but in here , she is bogged down by a the mediocrity of the writing . Ms . Stanwyck and Mr . Heflin worked together to better results in two other films . This film has to be viewed as curiosity piece that never made it big . Richard Hart was perfect as the stuffy Bob , the fiancee that is left behind when he can't cut the mustard . Charles Coburn also appeared in other films in which Barbara Stanwych shone , like " Lady Eve " , and he is perfect as B . F . Fulton , Polly's father . He always played rich men . Margaret Lindsay has only a small part . Keenan Wynn is perfect as Marty Ainsley , Tom's friend . On one positive note , the decor of the homes we see in the film is just " divine " , to imitate what Apples would say , as are the costumes and the glossy look they gave the film .
There's a tiger looming in the jungle	" Tropical Malady " by Thai film director Apichatpong Weerasethakul is a haunting film that at times seems impenetrable . The director has played a trick on the viewer by changing the mood and the pace right in the middle of the film . We are led to believe that the soldier and the young man that are clearly attracted to each other will go on to share a life together , but no , Mr . Weerasethakul takes us to the jungle where the soldier is trying to catch the elusive and beautiful tiger . " Tropical Malady " has been promoted as a gay film , which in a way , it is , but basically it presents a mystery that is never solved , although we know that in this case , the soldier is so obsessed with his opponent that they end up respecting one another . My only reservation with the film is the editing . It could have used a bit of cutting to make it more accessible . As a point of interest , films like this one tends to irritate viewers and one watches as how a theater empties out because people don't want to sit through any more . On the case of " Tropical Malady " no one walked out , which perhaps it's saying a lot for a film that can tax the viewer's patience . The jungle scenes at night are magnificently executed and perhaps the director will have more success with his future undertakings as he shows a sure hand in his direction .
Box it !	" Imitation of Life " , the 1934 version , reflected the attitude in the country toward blacks . This movie wouldn't have had a chance of being made in the present climate of political correctness . This movie shows how Hollywood dealt with the racial issues back in those years . John Stahl directed the film , which stands in stark contrast with the Douglas Sirk's take in 1959 which presents a glossier vision of the Fanny Hurst novel , in which it's based . Between the two versions , this one seems to make more sense , in spite of the incredible jump from rags to riches Bea Pullman experiences . Claudette Colbert makes Bea more accessible to us , in contrast with Lana Turner's blonde goddess looks . This Bea Pullman is easier to take because the way she makes her money by going into business , capitalizing on Delilah's idea about the marketing the perfect blend for pancakes . Warren William plays Steve Archer , the man who falls in love with Bea while not suspecting the effect he causes in young Jessie , Bea's daughter . Louise Beavers is Delilah ; she is made to speak broken English to show her ignorance , which was the thing expected every time black characters were shown in movies of that period . Ms . Beavers ' role was made bigger in the 1959 remake , but Juanita Moore , who played the part , was not subjected to her predecessor's fate . Rochelle Hudson , Ned Sparks and Fredi Washington round up the supporting cast .
Love potion # 8	Imagine if there ever was a strong potion that would make plain , unattractive people into glamorous ones . That's what happens to Paul Matthews , a nerdy scientist , who doesn't have much luck in the love department . When he decides to visit Madame Ruth , she tells him he is a lost case , but with the help of one of her magical preparations , he will be a winner . Well , Paul , a man of science , knows better , and never takes the seer's advice . His cat , on the other hand , discovers the magical powers when it licks the preparation that Paul threw in the garbage can . Diane Farrows , another scientist , sticks out like a sore thumb when we see her with some friends at a restaurant . She is a shy woman who has a car problem . She is in danger of losing her insurance as the traffic cop keeps writing her up for speeding . When Paul tells her about his discovery , she decides to experiment with one of the monkeys in her lab . Little prepares her for the results . Diane takes matters into her own hands and suddenly she is a popular girl who even attracts Prince Geoffrey , a hunk , who falls for the new woman . Dale Launer , a screen writer with a lot of hits , directs this mildly funny comedy we never had seen before , but which turns out to be a harmless way to spend an evening . Mr . Launer knows what he wants and he goes after it . He was lucky in casting the two talented principals in roles that with other actors might not have been as funny . Sandra Bullock appeared in this film before she made a splash in " Speed " and " While You Were Sleeping " . She plays the nerdy scientist with great panache . She goes a total transformation and we see her beauty that was hidden inside of what looked a homely girl . Tate Donovan also does good work as the nerdy Paul . Anne Bancroft is seen as the gypsy woman who can see the future . The rest of the cast do excellent work for Mr . Launer . Watch the film the next time it is shown on cable and let it work its magic on you . Mr . Launer knows how to write comedy , as he clearly proves it with this movie , once again .
O Pioneers !	Willa Cather's novel " My Antonia " captures the pioneering spirit in America as the country began expanding . The life in the prairie was told in great detail by Ms . Cather . With " My Antonia " , she gave us a look what it was like to be a settler in a strange land where everything seems to go against you . This film , which was shown recently on cable , had a look of a movie made for television . As directed by Joseph Sargent , who has worked extensively in that medium , the movie takes us back to the Nebraska that Ms . Cather wrote about . We are shown two different families living in the Nebraska of the last part of the XIX century . The Burdens , who evidently have been around for quite a while , are seen in sharp contrast with the immigrating Shemardas , who came from Bohemia . The Burdens have taken roots in their land whereas the Shemardas are trying to make a living in their property , without much success . Jimmy Burden likes Antonia , the young woman who is his neighbor . They form a bond that seems to be sealed , but life intervenes . Jimmy can never make his mind about the love he feels for Antonia and destiny never let them consummate that love . At the end , we watch as Jimmy goes back to visit Antonia , who has her own family and appears to have made it , after all . Elina Lowensohn makes an impression with her Antonia . This actress should be seen more often . She is always an interesting figure in whatever film she is in . Neil Patrick Harris was a product of television . As such , he is at a disadvantage playing opposite Ms . Lowensohn . Besides , he doesn't seem to register much emotion . Mr . Harris has been doing theater lately , which might help him in the acting department . Jason Robards Jr . and Eva Marie Saint play the older Burdens , and Anne Tremko is fine as the Swedish beauty , Lena . We would recommend to read Ms . Cather's novel , which is a fine piece of work in the American literature .
The farmer's daughter	" Hide Out " starts out focusing on a group of racketeers operating in Manhattan . We are introduced to Jonathan Wilson , who seems to be a key man to the organization . Jonathan is clearly a ladies ' man , but his luck is about to change after he is seen pursuing the glamorous Baby . In a hilarious scene , Jonathan , has secured a ring side table to watch the beautiful Baby singing , as part of a night club act . He proceeds to ask her for a date that same night , without the singer missing a beat while she accepts his invitation . That also proves to be his own undoing because the police is closing after him . The second part of this comedy , directed with style by W . S . Van Dyke , concentrates in how Jonathan , who has been wounded when he tried to flee his pursuers , is found on the side of the road by a Connecticutt farmer , Henry Miller . He takes him home , where the whole family takes an interest in making him well . The lovely Pauline Miller , a young teacher , likes " Lucky " , as Jonathan calls himself . Life in the farm works its magic in this man and transform him when he falls in love with the beautiful Pauline . Of course , we all know that crime doesn't pay , so when at the end of the film we see Det . MacCarthy come knocking on the Miller's door , we realize that Lucky must pay for his evil ways of the past , although he makes us feel , because of his transformation and the love he feels for the young woman , that somehow , he has vindicated himself by wanting to stay in the farm forever . Robert Montgomery's appearance in the film makes it even better than what it should have been . Mr . Montgomery is excellent in his scenes with Maureen O'Sullivan , who is perfect as the young Pauline Miller . Pauline Patterson and Whitford Kane are the older Millers , and Mickey Rooney , who was about thirteen , but looks much younger , makes a valuable contribution as Willie Miller . Edward Arnold , one of the best character actors working in films at that time , puts an appearance as Detective MacCarthy . The film , with a running time of 81 minutes , has the right length and involves us in it . W . S . Van Dyke directed with usual sure hand and got a lot out his great cast in this delightful film .
Pizza anyone ?	" Dirty Deeds " takes a nostalgic view of the Sydney of the late nineties as we are taken along to meet a local gangster who is ruthless against his enemies , or the people trying to invade his territory . The action takes place in King Cross , an area where night life was the main attraction . David Caesar and his cinematographer , Geoffrey Hall , created a film that seems to have been shot in that era , as they have given the movie a faded look that works well with the story they are telling . The film has some funny moments that come at unexpected moments . The inside joke seems to be about how to really make a good pizza , something that might not have been done at the time . The film makers have to be congratulated in bringing a brilliant cast together for the movie . Bryan Brown plays the kingpin Barry Ryan with equal amount of meanness and humor . Mr . Brown is an actor that is always consistent in anything he does and he should be seen more often . Toni Collette is one of the best actresses working in films , who is at home in drama as well as comedy , and she has a rare opportunity to show her talent playing Barry's wife , Sharon . John Goodman is good as the American mafioso who is outsmarted by his Aussie counterpart . Sam Worthington is fine as the naive Darcy and Kesty Moressi also does a good job as Margaret . The only one that has nothing to do is Sam Neill . " Dirty Deeds " works well as a drama and a comedy because there are elements of both in it thanks to the way David Caesar presents his material on the screen .
For the love of Marianela	This biopic about the great Cuban trumpet player Arturo Sandoval was probably made because of its star , Andy Garcia's interest in music from his homeland . Otherwise , this HBO film probably wouldn't have made it into a commercial vehicle . As directed by Joseph Sargent , the film is mildly pleasant to watch . Not having been an Andy Garcia fan , one must say , that he gives a convincing performance as Arturo , the man at the center of the action . His love for the gorgeous Marianela , played also with gusto by the gorgeous Mia Maestro , seems to have been what propelled him into seeking a new life in the United States . At times , the film doesn't make much political sense . Arturo Sandoval was able to tour the world under the Castro regime without taking the stand he makes at the end . Of course , everything is conveniently explained about how if he wouldn't have toed the line , he wouldn't have even played , let alone go abroad , for fear he would defect . The fear of not being able to be reunited with his wife and son is what keeps him from making a clean break , or so it seems . Of course , one realizes this is a fictionalized account of Mr . Sandoval's life made to please a wide audience . Mr . Sandoval's friendship with Dizzy Gillespie gets a lot of attention , yet , one wonders if that was the case . The incident where Mr . Sandoval takes Mr . Gillespie in his jalopy to meet the great Chano Pozo , is a figment of the film makers imagination . At the same time , no one seemed to know who Chano Pozo , perhaps one of the best Cuban musicians of all time , was ! Also questionable is the fact that Mr . Sandoval's relationship with Paquito D'Rivera was what it's made to be in the film . Mr . D'Rivera shows a lot more courage by defecting at the first opportunity even though his own family would be penalized and stayed behind for many years , punished by the totalitarian regime in that unhappy island . As biopics go , this film is somewhat enjoyable , but it remains a work of fiction .
The Wilder Kid	Robert Aldrich was a director who made entertaining films throughout his career . He can count his blessings in having had the opportunity to work with one of the best comedians of all times : Gene Wilder . This film is a delight , from beginning to end . Mr . Wilder , as Avram is a man we can't keep our eyes from , as he dominates the screen and makes this film his own . The adventures Avram goes through , coming to a country where everything is so different from the world he leaves behind , is what glues this tale together . A young Harrison Ford is Mr . Wilder's sidekick . This bank robber shows the naive Avram the tricks about how to survive in a hostile environment . Mr . Ford underplays the role , and it works well because the funny lines are meant for Avram , and how he reacts to what he discovers , as he travels west . This film will always be a favorite because it is universal and it reaches the audience with its positive message while laughing and enjoying the great Gene Wilder on the screen .
Yo , girlfriend !	Debra Felstead , the director of this short film transfers a short story by August Stringberg to the present day with amazing results . Ms Felstead's adaptation takes a hip-hop approach to the confrontation we see between two women who knew each other well , but are now at odds with one another . The rude Rhona gets ahead of other customers so that Keesha , the manicurist , can take care of her , immediately . Rhona begins a monologue that is a long complaint about Keesha , who obviously , was her friend , but a man got them apart . Rhona speaks in a tone for everyone to hear in the beauty salon , on purpose , to embarrass Keesha , who keeps her cool at all times . While Rhona keeps getting hot under the collar , Keesha is the model of propriety . Rhona is the clear loser of the exchange . Raven Dauda and Robinne Fanfair are seen as Rhona and Keesha . Both young actresses are fine under Ms . Felstead's tight direction . This film shows a director that shows talent and goes to the point with gusto . The viewer will not be disappointed .
Tavernier and Simenon	Bernard Tavernier once confessed that the greatest influence in his life had been the work of directors Akira Kurosawa and Michael Powell . This might explain his direction of the film based in the novel by Georges Simenon's . It shows a Tavernier more concerned with the character study of M . Descombes , as he goes through the horror of understanding what had caused his son to commit the crime of which he is been accused of perpetrating . In doing so , M . Tavernier embraces the " old French cinema " , as he shuns away the New Wave methods of story telling . One can see clearly what's going on in Descombes ' mind , at all time . His son has grown up and is not a child anymore . We see this father come home and encounters newspaper reporters and he goes into his son's room and lays down in the bed that perhaps the younger man has not slept in for quite some time . We watch as Descombs descends into hell because he can't comprehend what has triggered his son into doing what seems repugnant to him and his dignity . Pilippe Noiret was born to play Descombes . This actor with such subtlety , underplays the clockmaker , and the father . What comes to the surface is the inner turmoil that Descombes is experiencing . This is another example of how good an actor M . Noiret is because with an economy of gestures he builds the character . Jean Rochefort , as the inspector , is also good . M . Rochefort is another actor that always surprises . This movie is a psychological portrait of a man at the crossroads of despair . Only at the end , father and son seem reconciled with one another . The city of Lyons has been photographed lovingly in this film . This is a Tavernier for discriminating tastes .
New York , New York , it's a wonderful town !	Edward Burns latest film shows us the inhabitants of the island of Manhattan in all their splendor . We know a lot of the people that inhabit this movie since , at one time , or another , we have known people just like these . The sidewalk interviews are a lot of fun to watch , as we're always guessing where they were shot . All the interviews pale in comparison with the one where the director , is photographed with the World Trade Center as a background in all its majesty and glory . Stanley Tucci keeps getting better all the time , being the actor , as he is seen here , or the director in his own film . His interpretation of the creepy dentist whose own masculinity is put into question by the same person he is trying to use and won't let go . Heather Graham plays against type and the result is excellent . Rosario Dawson was a revelation . Her character makes a painful and necessary decision , although , perhaps , we are not prepared for it , when she breaks away from a situation that will only bring her unhappiness , in the long run . Brittany Murphy keeps getting better all the time . She's a natural with a winning smile . The only trouble was that Dennis Farina's character doesn't have a bigger role to play .
Chico , Diane , Heaven !	Chico , a sewer worker in Paris rescues Diane , a prostitute , from the police . He not only offers his protection , but also his unending love . Diane , who up to that point had been abused by many people , suddenly realizes the love she receives from Chico lifts her from a dreary existence and helps her find her own voice . Alas , war intervenes at the time the couple decides to get married . Chico , an avowed atheist , invents his own wedding vows as he and Diane exchange chains to wear around their necks instead of the customary ring . Both make a promise to chant their names and pretend they are in heaven at 11am each day . The ritual keeps them hoping for an eventual happy life together in peaceful times . This 1937 release directed by Henry King , is seldom seen these days . The basic reason for watching it again is the sweet presence of Simone Simon and James Stewart . These two actors contributed to make the film much better than it should have been if played by others . Ms . Simon , one of the most beautiful faces in the French cinema , had a wonderful screen presence that works well opposite to the young and disarming James Stewart , at one of the best points of his budding career . Others in the cast included Jean Hersholt , who appears as the priest that tries to convert Chico . This is the same actor whose name is synonymous with worthwhile causes within the film industry and who died much to young to continue his humanitarian work . Also , Gregory Ratoff , Gale Sondergaard , Sig Ruman and J . Edward Bromberg and the rest do great work in the film . The copy shown on cable was not exactly the best , but as in other memorable films , what matters is the story and the great performances that Henry King got from everyone .
Time changes , but love endures	Antoine Lavau , is a man that never forgot to love Cecile , even though a lot of time has passed since they last saw one another . In fact , Cecile , who has married a Moroccan physician , and has settled in Tangiers , is going through some difficult time herself . When Antoine asks to be sent to Tangiers for a big project , all he has in mind is to find Cecile again . Not everything goes well when Cecile and Antoine finally meet . It's almost impossible to reactivate a love affair after so many years , as Antoine keeps counting the days since he lost her . Cecile , who is working on a radio program , has found her marriage to Natan , is in shambles . To make matters worse , her bisexual son , Sami , arrives for vacation with his lover , Nadia , and her young son . Sami wants to resume his sexual liaison with a young local who he secretly lusts after . Nadia , on the other hand , an Arab , has adapted to the Western customs , whereas Aicha , her twin , is a modest woman who seems to observe her religion and who is only working at a minimum wage job in a fast food place . The film has an almost tragic end as Antoine suffers a grave accident and has to be hospitalized . Cecile has come to a decision and it will come as no surprise to the viewer : love conquers all ! That is the message that Andre Techine wants to tell us . Working with the screen play by Laurent Guyot , he does what he can to make this film engrossing . Gerard Depardieu and Catherine Deneuve reunite , once again for this film . It shows clearly how time is cruel even to great beauties like Ms . Deneuve , who appears to be aging , but still has her great beauty to share with the audience . Mr . Depardieu , alas , although younger , appears not to have the same luck as his co-star . Gilbert Melki plays Cecile's husband , and Lubua Azabal plays the dual role of Nadia / Aicha . The film has some good moments , although this is not Mr . Techine's finest moment directing .
The odds	There is a scene at the beginning of the film that seems to set the tone of " Two for the Money " . We watch as Walter Abrams is talking on the phone with someone who will not be able to provide an elephant for his daughter's birthday party . Walter barks to his assistant , " Get me Ringling " . When the call finally comes through , he demands to know whether he is talking to Barnum or Bailey , which is a funny line . Wasn't P . T . Barnum himself the man famous for that quotation about a sucker being born every minute ? Walter Abrams is a man who is in the sports betting business . He and his associates stand to make millions out of the jerks they pursue to do their betting with his firm . Having found a new rising star , Brandon Lang , a man that knows a lot about the intricacies of point spreads and picking winners . Walter wants to transforms him into a man who can bring more money into his outfit . In order to do that , Walter must groom him to " look " the part . As such , Brandon becomes John Anthony , the man who can produce fabulous results every week end during the football series . Brandon gets to meet the insiders , but little does he know who he is dealing with , or much less , what is expected of him . After all , he is just as good as the winners he can produce . The film , directed by D . J . Caruso , a man who has worked extensively in television , has a glossy look . The screen play by Dan Gilroy could have used some tighter editing , because at two hours it feels a bit long . Al Pacino , as Walter , has some good moments ; we have seen him in better roles , and this one is a composite of other things he has done before . Mr . Pacino compensates when the screen play is not going anywhere by applying an intensity that doesn't go well with the others playing opposite him . Matthew McConaughey is a light weight actor who , aside from his good looks , doesn't bring anything to this story . Rene Russo is obviously a tall woman who towers over Mr . Pacino in most of their scenes together . Their relationship doesn't come across as being a real thing . Jeremy Piven and Armand Assante make good contributions in supporting the principals . While " Two for the Money " is by no means a horrible film , it just doesn't have anything new to say .
Peer pressure in the big city	Paolo Virzi's " Caterina va in citta " is a film where he decided to throw his own personal take in the Italian society of the present . Mr . Virzi is a director of talent . In this film , he decides to give us a disarming heroine , Caterina , who is at the center of two opposing factions , the left and the right . At the beginning of the film we meet Giancarlo Iacovani , who is a teacher in a northwest coastal town , perhaps in Tuscany . He is telling his boring students how he has hated them for making his life miserable while trying to teach them something , as he is bailing out to his native Rome , where he is finally been transferred . His daughter Caterina , the intense and earnest teen ager , is seen practicing in the chorus and she gets carried away singing the beautiful music she adores . She appears not too keen on the moving to Rome . The area where they are moving to seems to be a place where chaos reigns and where the apartments are so close to one another that the young girls can see all what's going on with all the neighbors across the street . As Caterina is going to start classes , a proud Giancarlo , is seen taking her to her first day of school at the same one where he has gone himself , years before . The class Caterina joins is an unruly place where the young people are clearly from two different factions , those with money and right wing sympathizers , or those with money but left wingers leaning into communism . Caterina is made feel unwelcome for sticking out as she doesn't belong with one group , or the other . Upon going home from the first day of school and showing her father Giancarlo the names of her classmates , he becomes impressed because most of the students seem to be connected to who's who in Rome ! Caterina is accepted first by Margherita , the rebel with left wing parents . Caterina learns this girl has gotten rid of her father's manuscript , which he had sent to Margherita's mother , an editor . Then , Daniela , the leader of the opposite faction , takes her under her wing and sophisticates her appearance . At the end , Caterina realizes Daniella is no friend either . The affection that Daniela's cousin shows to Caterina is thwarted when her snobbish mother makes a point to tell him to stop seeing the provincial girl . The film keeps a fast pace that works for the movie . It seems that Mr . Virzi parallels the life in Rome to what we are seeing . The city , alas , has the wrong effect in Giancarlo , who is suspended from his teaching post and as he tries to fight for it , he is made aware he doesn't amount to anything and decides to take off on his own after he fixes his old motorcycle . It is clear at this point that Agata , the long suffering wife , has had it with his ups and downs as she finds solace with Fabietto , the kind bachelor friend . The best thing in the film is Alice Teghil , who , as Caterina , is seen exploring new things that ultimately can't compare with the life she had in the small town she came from , with all its problems and small mindedness . Sergio Castellito plays the strident Giancarlo , a man that comes unglued in pursuing his dream of returning to the capital with little success once he is there . Margherita Buy , a beautiful actress , has little to do as Agata , the long suffering wife of Giancarlo . She is the only sane person we encounter in the film . As the bad girls , Carolina Iaquaniello , is the grungy-Italian-style-like Margherita , the girl grown among the intellectual crowd . Federica Sberema , plays Daniela , the rich girl who is a mess and who moves with a fast crowd . The supporting cast do a good job . The best part is the ending in which we watch the radiant Caterina doing what she does best : singing to her heart's content !
A crime in the mountains	Director Manuel Gutierrez Aragon presents a rural drama that takes place in the mountains of Cantabria , in Northern Spain . This film , part of the annual presentation of Spanish cinema , is a picture with a lot of ambition . Were it not for this festival , Spanish films , such as this one , would not have been seen in this city because this type of cinema is not commercial and there is no market for it . On the one hand , the movie shows the hard life these peasants lead in a remote and desolate region . Also , the director wants to make a statement about how progress in the country , being now part of the European Community , penalizes the small farmers that have eked a life from their cows and agriculture for ages . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading now . The new developments in the country wreak havoc for Gildo , and his neighbor Severo . Both men are the victims of a system that condemns them both for producing more milk than it's allowed by the ECU . They don't see eye to eye ; there is resentment and bad blood between them . When Gildo sends a young calf to his neighbor , Severo takes offense , taking his daughter Val prisoner , against her will , for nothing this young woman has done . There is confrontation between Severo , Val and Gildo , in which the first one dies . This brings Rai , the estranged son of Severo back to the funeral and to put his father's things in order before returning to the small town , where he works as a hair dresser . Rai falls for Val , but the fact remains that this son , as well as the rest of the town , feels that Celso killed Severo . Rai falls hard for Val . Their romance goes against Gildo's wishes who feels the young man will see who the real culprit is . The movie is more approachable than some of the other movies of this director , who can please an audience , as well as repulse the viewer . Juan Diego is Gildo , who is totally convincing as Gildo . The young actress Marta Etura , is Val , the daughter who must work with the father to make a go of their meager existence . Ms . Etura bears an uncanny resemblance to Holly Hunter . Luis Tosar is Rai , who gives a controlled performance . The views of the hills of Cantabria is breathtaking . The green mountains come alive in this movie . Mr . Gutierrez Aragon gives us a slice of life among these peasants whose lives have not changed for centuries .
Our man in Africa	Morgan Leafy is a secretary to the British High Commissioner to an Africa nation . Leafy is a man that makes himself useful to his boss , the snobbish Arthur Fanshawe , who has no clue about what's going on around him , but who wants to use his secretary to carry on his dirty work , which involves getting one of the most powerful men in the country to do business with his country . The young secretary has an eye for beautiful women around him , especially Hazel , a native beauty , with whom he is having an affair . Things get complicated because Sam Adekunle , a man running for president of the country , wants a favor from Leafy in return after he has accepted the invitation to visit London . The proposition involves swaying a prominent doctor's opposition to a plan that will make Adenkule filthy rich . Things are complicated as a duchess will come for a visit and one of the maids at the Commissioner's residence has been struck by lightning and her body can't be moved because of the natives ' belief that Shango , the god of thunder was instrumental in what happened to the woman . A native ritual must be performed and the body can't be moved . Leafy is made to deal with the situation that brings more complications and funny situations . Bruce Beresford has directed this funny movie with sure hand . The novel by William Boyd , which we have not read , was adapted by its author into one a funny satire that looks at the role of English politics in a corrupt country in Africa . Colin Friels is the best thing in the movie . As Morgan Leafy , he is at the center of everything . Mr . Friels is the basic reason for watching this comedy . Sean Connery plays Dr . Murray with an economy that makes his character one of the best things he has done lately . John Lithgow plays Arthur Fanshawe with great panache , making the High Commissioner a ridiculous man . Diana Rigg , Joanne Whalley , Lou Gossett Jr . and the rest of the cast do good work for the director . " A Good Man in Africa " is a fun film to watch .
Dressed to kill by Chanel	This film arrives two years after it was released in Europe . Frankly one doesn't know who to blame for a movie that leaves the viewer confused about who the real Maria Callas was . Franco Zeffirelli should have known better . He was around when Callas was at the peak of her career . To team up with Martin Sherman in this shameful travesty it's a betrayal to her memory . The thing that comes clearly in the film is Maria Callas ' sense of professionalism and perfectionism she asked of herself and the ones involved in any project she undertook . Alas , what we watch is the sad final days of a woman who threw everything away for the love of Ari Onassis , who didn't deserve . Fanny Ardant , at times looks like Maria , but there is a problem with her distinct French accent because we all know Maria Callas was born in New York and her command of English , was impeccable . Jeremy Irons also appears as the manager . To catch the art of Maria Callas at her best , one must check " Medea " directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini . Callas comes across as the great actress that she was .
Numbered days	Antonio , a Basque terrorist , commits the ultimate error of any man in his position : he falls in love ! It proves to be a fatal misjudgment in his part because he attracts the police's attention that are not looking for him . As with other men that thought they knew it all , Antonio doesn't count that Charo and her friends will be his own downfall . Charo , a young prostitute and substance abuser , also falls for the handsome Antonio . She has no idea about what he does . She is under the impression he is a photo journalist who happens to live next door to her and Vanessa's apartment . Antonio , working with two accomplices have been planning a car bomb explosion at the police headquarters . Everything goes according to plan , except that Antonio's emotions get in the way at the end . Imanol Uribe directed this emotional film that takes the viewer to see , first hand , how the terrorists operate . Mr . Uribe also understands the low lives that deal in drugs and and the users . He mixes all of them in a film that shows some raw emotion in telling the story . Carmelo Gomez does an outstanding job as Antonio . Javier Bardem , who was not as well known then is perfect as Lisardo , the junkie . Ruth Gabriel is a beautiful young actress who is not afraid to bare it all for the camera . Candela Pena is also good as Vanessa . Karra Ejalde and Elvira Minguez are seen in minor roles . Give this film a try because the talented Mr . Uribe delivers .
Merry go round	" Carousel " , the musical , was presented on Broadway with great success . The transition to the screen , alas , doesn't fare that well . Having seen this film version a while ago , we decided to take a second look , but this time , in all honesty , it didn't have the same effect . Partly , it must be Henry King's take on the musical . Perhaps it this Rodgers and Hammerstein hasn't aged that well . The problem , perhaps , seems to be in the music . We have heard variations of these Rodgers and Hammerstein's songs in other musicals . Take for instance , " You'll Never Walk Alone " , doesn't it sound suspiciously like " Climb Every Mountain " from " The Sound of Music " ? In both cases , they are heard from much older and wiser women , Cousin Nettie , in this one , or Mother Superior in the other . Also there are shades of " Some Enchanting Evening " , from " South Pacific " , while Louise is seen playing around at the beach while Billy is looking from heaven . Of course , we realize " Carousel " came before . One wonders what change of events took Billy Bigelow to heaven ? After all , he wasn't a model of righteousness , let alone his way of giving Julie a slap or two at times . If all indicates that he was admitted through the Pearly Gates of heaven , then , there's a chance for most of us , or so , it seems to be the case . Gordon McRae was more of a singer than an actor , and it sadly shows in this film . The lovely Shirley Jones , at the prime of her youth , fares much better because she could not only sing , but she was a notable actress of this genre and comedy . For some reason , the chemistry that might have existed between them in " Oklahoma " , is not shown here . Cameron Mitchell , Gene Lockhart , Claramae Turner , Susan Luckey , among others do good supporting jobs in the film . The choreography of Agnes de Mille is only seen in all its splendor in " June is busting out all over " and in the Carousel ballet , somehow abridged , and featuring Jacques D'Amboise with Louis Luckey in one of the best moments of the musical .
Swiss chocolate	Claude Chabrol , a man that has distinguished himself for showing the nasty things people do one another , is at it again . Although " Merci pour le chocolat " is not one of his best contributions to the genre , it has a subtlety that shows he is was still up to his tricks when he made this movie . Mika Muller , was married briefly to the man she now calls her husband , the weary-eyed Andre Polonsky , a talented pianist . Mika loves to prepare chocolate , a specialty she has known well , being as she is , connected to the industry . She also loves to lace her brews with a substance that will induce sleeping to whoever she wants to get rid of . Andre's second wife suffered a fatal accident after drinking the chocolate Mika prepared for her , and got her and Andre back together again . Mika gets a dislike for Jeanne Pollet , a piano student , who suspects that Andre is her father . This theory is the result of the revelation that Jeanne's mother tells her about having been switched momentarily at birth with Axel , the son of Andre and his late wife . In fact , Jeanne sees a possibility in her theory because , like Andre , she has a passion for the piano , while Axel shows no interest . The best thing in the film is Isabelle Huppert , who makes another one of her memorable screen characters come alive . One can see in her face the emotions Mika is experiencing . This actress gives a seamless performance about the evil woman who has gone above and beyond to destroy lives . Anna Mouglalis also made an impression as Jeanne , the young woman who solves the puzzle and is , at the same time , an almost victim of the possessed Mika . Jacques Dutronc plays Andre . Another interesting Claude Chabrol film that will please his fans .
Club hopping	" Party Girl " capitalizes on the tremendous charm of Parker Posey . In fact , at times , the movie seems to be a vehicle in which Ms . Posey is allow to play herself , as she normally is in real life . The film , directed by Daisy Von Scherler Mayer , is a treat for Ms . Posey's fans . Ms . Von Scherler Mayer takes us on a wild trip into lower Manhattan to show us this aimless soul whose life is dedicated to have fun in the different clubs she constantly frequents . This is an era that still was more naive than what that area and the adjacent Meat Market districts became . At least , there are no pretensions in the films and we see down to earth people going about their lives in a normal way , if we can call it that way . Parker Posey makes an amazing Mary . It's because of Parker Posey we enjoy the movie more than if another actress would have played Mary . She is the whole picture . The rest of the cast is good .
And God created Brazil	Carlos Diegues , the Brazilian director , takes us on a trip of enlightenment , when he invites us to come along in this road movie , in which God , taking the form of a man of a certain age , appears to a young man who doesn't believe in anything . Taoca , the young man , decides to accompany the God figure in a trip which will make him watch , first hand , what this larger than life figure has in store for him . Mr . Diegues is a director that always surprises . In this film , he is playing with our credibility as Taoca and God travel through the back roads of that vast country that is Brazil . In the process , Taoca goes from being skeptic , to a complete understanding about what this God is all about and what he is capable of doing . Mr . Diegues ' films have a great look because of the director's sense of color that must be evident in the places where his movies are set . The film is made more enjoyable because of the interplay of Antonio Fagundes , who plays God , and Wagner Moura , an actor who shows great promise . Mr . Fagundes is perfect as the God reincarnated . Wagner Moura , who we had admired in " Caminho das Nuvems " , brings the right blend of skepticism and humor to the situation he is thrown into . We also see Paloma Duarte , who plays Mada , a young woman with a sad past , who goes along with two strangers , leaving her dreary life behind . " Deus E Brasileiro " will delight Mr . Diegues ' fans .
And justice for all	" Reckless Indiference " is a documentary about the killing of a young man of a stab wound . James Farris Jr . , who was dealing drugs , was also the son of a retired detective of the L . A . P . D . The director William Gazecki tries to present the case from all angles , but in a way , it takes the view that the condemned were given the wrong sentence . It appears that life sentences for the young people involved is a high price to pay , taking into consideration that other offenders get off with less strict sentences . However , the technicality applied to these young men has to do with what applies to the violent gangs operating in Los Angeles . The case is made that the prosecution went too far in the case by all the defense . This tragedy , unfortunately , touched all the people of the Agoura Hills community because nobody could have foreseen something like this could ever happen there . This is a true American tragedy .
Let him eat carrots !	If spinach makes Popeye stronger , carrots prove to be the source of strength for Mr . Smith , the hero of this highly charged movie of action that never gives the audience a moment to relax ! I say that based on what happens on the screen during its 86 minutes running time . This has to be one of the fastest movies in years , bar none . Written and directed by Michael Davis , we are taken for the ride of a lifetime . Our hero , Mr . Smith , is a resourceful man , to put it mildly . He seems to smell danger coming even when it's a mile away . He is one of the most talented man with a gun in movie history . The title alone is a proper way to call his job description . At the core of the film is the birth of a young child that Mr . Smith is responsible for delivering into the world amid a gun battle . That child is the key figure in the plot , even as an infant . We discover this baby is the object of the search a corrupt politician has ordered . We learn how he has hired Mr . Hertz , a criminal man that will stop at nothing in trying to get the boy . In order to help Mr . Smith take care of the infant , he asks DQ , a lady with a certain reputation to come with him to mind the baby while he goes after the bad guys . The hoodlums , headed by Mr . Hertz , are always a stone throw away and they mean business . At one time , there are , what feels like hundreds of black clad gun toting men trying to get rid of Mr . Smith , something that is almost impossible . The last sequence of the film keeps the viewer at the edge of his seat just watching how our hero battles his opponents as he jumps from a high flying jet . There is no other action film that matches the sheer excitement of the battle in midair of all the criminals against Mr . Smith . Clive Owen was made to play this role . He gives a great reading to his Mr . Smith . He is savvy , sophisticated , and knows all the tricks imaginable to evade the evil forces that want to off him . The villainous Mr . Hertz is played by Paul Giamatti . Monica Bellucci , who plays DQ , the love interest of the leading man , has some excellent moments in which to show her beauty . Recommended for fans of action films thanks to its creator , Michael Davis .
Coal miner's son	Can a boy from a macho background overcome all obstacles and go to be a star in the Royal Ballet company ? Well , that is the premise of this feel good film that we saw when it first came out , but didn't comment . Watching it for a second time , recently , didn't produce the same effect as when initially seen on the big screen . Something was lost , but it is still an inspirational story . Billy , a young boy from a poor background in the coal country in the North of England , realizes he has a passion for dancing . Since he doesn't know how to channel his desire for becoming a classic dancer , he has to get all the help he can get . With the guidance of Mrs . Wilkinson , a local dance coach , Billy finds the inspiration he needs to go on into that world , so foreign to a young boy of his class . In a way , we couldn't help comparing " Billy Elliot " to " Educating Rita " , not that they are similar in any shape , or form . Maybe the presence of the irrepressible Julie Walters , who appears in this case as the teacher , was the link and the basis of comparison . Her work in the film doesn't dominate the action , but her contribution to the overall success of it is an undeniable factor . Young Jamie Bell endears himself to the audience with his take on the would be dancer that wants to expand his own talent . Stephen Daltry directed with panache the screenplay by Lee Hall . Mr . Daltry's work with the two principals wins us over . This small film couldn't have worked as a Hollywood production , which probably would have blown the action out of proportion and would have turned the story into something else .
The apprentice	This film was shown on cable recently . Unfortunately , most Aregentine " indie " films go unnoticed in this country because there is no market for something like this , even though it's better than most of the mediocrity one sees on a daily basis . Pablo Trapero's film is disturbing . Having seen his " Mundo Grua " , we had to take a look at this new attempt of the director . Mr . Trapero introduces us to Zapa , a young locksmith , living in the provinces . Zapa , is not a young man anymore , he is 32 and has no future . Zapa is the victim of an unscrupulous boss who sends him to a job that involves a robbery . An uncle is instrumental for getting him free when he speaks to a friend in the Buenos Aires ' police department about a job . Zapa is accepted , but his initiation and training , contribute to his ultimate downfall ; he is a victim of a system that is inept and corrupt . A great deal of the higher ups are on the take ; in order to look the other way , those working in prostitution , or illegal activities , must pay for police protection . It doesn't help that Zapa falls prey of a ruthless superior , Gallo , who makes him bend the same law they are sworn to uphold . Zapa falls in love with Mabel , one of the instructors , who is the only one that shows any compassion , and perhaps love , in the cold atmosphere of the big city , until she realizes her lover is working for the bad guys in the department . The film offers good performances in general . Jorge Roman , as Zapa , makes us care for this man . Mr . Roman's casting is perfect because he brings to the role a roughness that with another actor would have been ruined . At the same time , this actor shows a vulnerability and candor in his interpretation of the yokel from the provinces . Mimi Ardu is good as Mabel , Zapa's love interest . Their intimate scenes are so sensual they make the viewer a ' voyeur ' watching them . Finally , Dario Levy , as Gallo , the corrupt cop , makes a great appearance .
On location	Catherine Brreillat is a French director who loves to provoke her audience . She takes us along to witness how a film is done on location . The movie in production seems to be based on herself , since the person at the center of the story is Jeanne , a woman director , much like Ms . Breillat . Jeanne acts as the alter ego of the real director . Jeanne reaches an impasse at the start of filming . Not only has she picked the wrong time to photograph this movie during a cold spell , as it involves beach locations that are obviously too cold for the actors and extras . Jeanne has problems with the two principal actors , especially , the male lead who has problems accepting the way the director has decided to show him in the movie ; the lead actress is no angel either . Movie making , Ms . Breillat tells us is a process like no other in a creative work of art . First , there is the writing period , in which , in this case , Jeanne , has written a screen play , that when it goes into production reveals problems the writer / director didn't think about . There is the problem of how she wants to photograph a love scene in which the young woman of the story has her first sex contact . What appeared clever in the written page , doesn't necessarily translate into an easy time in front of the camera . The actor is made to wear a false penis and has a lot of problems accepting the fact that a make up has to touch him in ways he never thought he would ever be touched by another man . The luminous Anne Parillaud is marvelous as Jeanne , the director . She makes observations about the production , the actors , and the crew that fit well into the story being told . Gregoire Colin and Roxane Mesquide play the lead actors , with all the insecurity that some actors bring to a movie set . Jeanne has to massage their egos in order to get what she wants in the end . Ashley Waninnger plays Leo , Jeanne's assistant . " Sex Is Comedy " allows Ms . Breillet to give us her own take on films in general . This is a great look at the way movies are done in a typical Breillat style .
Let them eat pie	It is a tribute to the creator of this film , Adrienne Shelley , that she left such wonderful memories with this viewer . Firstly , when we discovered her in the early Hal Hartley's films . She was a dynamo ; she packed such strength in her tiny body that she loomed bigger than life in most of her screen appearances . We also had the opportunity to catch her in one of her rare theatre appearances at the Ohio theatre in New York in a play that wasn't that great , but every time she was on stage , Ms . Shelley projected a fantastic intelligence and wit . " Waitress " was a labor of love for Adrianne Shelley . As a writer and director , she was generous to a fault . She always took a step back to let others shine , as is the case in this film . This film reflects how far she had gone in her work as well as the bright future she had ahead of her . All that , alas , was taken away from Ms . Shelley in a senseless moment by a deranged mind . The best thing in the film is Keri Russell , who as Jenna gives a good performance . Nathan Fillion is seen as Dr . Pomatter , a confused individual who loses his head when he meets Jenna . Jeremy Sisto appears as Jenna's abusive husband Earl . Cheryl Hines , Andy Griffith , Eddy Jemison and Ms . Shelley complete the supporting cast . Even though Adrienne Shelley is not with us , she'll live forever through the films in which she appeared . Let's hope she's smiling at us from heaven .
The stars	" Heavenly Body " , which was shown on cable recently , is one of those forgotten MGM comedies of the forties that had a lot style and showed a great promise based on the people involved . As directed by Alexander Hall , the movie capitalizes on the talented William Powell and the beautiful Hedy Lamarr , perhaps one of the most beautiful women in the movies of that era . The comedy seems to be a struggle between sciences that even though sound similar , are completely opposite . William Whitley is an astrologer married to the gorgeous Vicky . They appear happy together , that is , until Nancy Potter , a neighbor , interests her in astronomy . The good natured Vicky falls prey to horoscopes and charts that take her interest away from her husband , who has made an important discovery in a comet that will be crashing on the moon . Things get complicated when journalist LLoyd Hunter enters the picture and falls for Vicky . William feels neglected and wants to get Vicky to realize what's important and what's not , so he takes matters into his own hands and has a confrontation with the astronomer Ms . Sybill . Right after that , Vicky realizes how much William loves her and leaves all the predictions aside . William Powell was an actor with a lot of charm . He was wonderful playing comedies , as he shows here . It's easy to see how he would be good next to Ms . Lamarr , who shows good chemistry with her co-star . In supporting roles we see a lot of the best character actors of the time , James Craig , Spring Byington , Fay Banter , Henry O'Neill , among others . See the film as curiosity piece .
Lisa	Somehow the remake of a better French film should have been avoided at all costs . This film has a disorienting feeling the creators have given it as the action takes place in a period of two years . Some viewers will be lost as they watch the story unfold backward , then leap forward without making a lot of sense . The story of Matt and Lisa is told in flashbacks . Matt's obsession when he sees Lisa again , after some time , proves to be too much for him , as he has to go back and find her . Matt , who is going to marry the ambitious Rebecca , falls into a trance like state when he follows the clues that will take him back to Lisa . The fact that Alex , a woman who likes to impersonate a friend who has been too kind to her , plays into the plot until everything comes together when Matt finally finds the love of his life . " Wicker Park " directed by Paul McGuigan sets the action in Chicago during the winter . Josh Harnett , Diane Kruger , Rose Byrne have some good opportunities in the film .
The heart is a lonely hunter	Lorraine Will , whose funeral marks the beginning of the story , had died from a drug overdose . We watch Bobby Long , limping across New Orleans as he gets to the cemetery , not before finishing a bottle , to , perhaps , fortify his spirit . The one that never makes it to the funeral is Lorraine's daughter , Pursy , who lives in Florida with an abusive boyfriend . Upon hearing about her mother's death , Pursy , goes back to New Orleans , but she is a day late . Going to her mother's house she meets two strangers , Bobby Long , and Lawson Pines . Bobby had been a college professor , and Lawson his assistant . Since they lost their jobs , they relocated to New Orleans , where they lead lives wasted by the amounts of liquor both drink . Pursy comes into this household without a clue as to why these two are living in Lorraine's house . Both men are supposedly the inheritors of the property , but the young woman's arrival changes their position considerably . Pursy , who has dropped out of school , is coaxed by Bobby and Lawson into getting her GED and to pursue a college education , something she is reluctant to undertake , at first . The fact that the house is in her name and both men had lied about it , comes as a shock to Pursy , who feels betrayed and decides to put it for sale , but it seems she is too deeply involved with these two men . Bobby , it turns out , is closer to her than she ever thought , and she has feelings for Lawson , in spite of the age difference . Shainee Gabel , who adapted Ronale Everett Capps ' novel " Off Magazine Street " into this film , captures the essence of the relationship among these three lost souls living in New Orleans . The film starts slowly but keeps getting better half way into the film . It pays for the viewers to stay with it because of the nuanced character study Ms . Gabel achieves in the film . John Travolta would have been not our first choice to play Bobby Long , but for better , or worse , he is the man that was tapped to portray this lost soul . At times , he succeeds brilliantly , and at other times , we just don't believe he is that alcoholic man whose talent has gone to waste . Scarlett Johansson gives a good performance as Pursy , the confused young woman who must face reality and deal with it . Gabriel Macht is also effective as Lawson . The best thing though , is the understated reading Deborah Dara Unger gives to Georgianna , the bar maid with a heart of gold who loves Lawson silently . Watching the film , post-Katrina , we could only wonder what state the neighborhood where the film was shot , a couple of years earlier , would be like right now . One could only hope everything had managed to survive the furor of the storm , although who knows ?
Super Fly wannabes . . .	You have to hand it to Albert and Allan Hughes , two fearless film makers , that take us along to see how the other half live . The world of the pimp , in this case , American pimps , is something no one had dared to explore up to now . Whether it's worth your while to take a look , or not , is ultimately , up to the viewer . We are presented several men who make a living out of women . These men that are showcased in the documentary appear to be well adjusted to their status . They are all successful in what they do , otherwise , one can't explain how they have stayed around for such a long time . Their stories , which obviously are spontaneous , tend to bore us eventually . After all , how many times can one hear them repeat themselves again and again using the same derogatory tones for the women they exploit . What the Hughes didn't show is the other side of the coin : how these women exploited by their pimps . They only present a few prostitutes who appear to appreciate the role of this element in their lives . The directors also tend to glorify , in a way , the sleekness of the pimps ' style , which tend to make them dress in outrageous costumes that only them can wear in our society . The film is an eye opener about an underclass we know little , or nothing about . One can only hope they will not be role models for others to follow in their footsteps .
Let's put a symphony orchestra together !	This delightful family picture reflects how the public taste changes over the years . Movies , in general , were kinder to serious music then , something that no studio would even consider in tackling these days . This was a vehicle for Deanna Durbin , who reigned supreme at Universal and who had movies tailor made for her to showcase her talents . Ms . Durbin was a cute young girl in those years . She was wonderful in the way she projected charm without being obnoxious , or bratty . Her singing voice was amazing and it was always prominently heard in all the movies she made . The story is something typical of those years . Director Harry Koster was able to present the material in a good fashion . The film follows Ms . Durbin in her quest to help her impoverished father and his musician friends . With the help of the rich Frosts , she is able to bring together the talented unemployed music men into forming an orchestra and convincing the great Leopold Stokowski to make music with them . The film will not disappoint Ms . Durbin's fans . Adolph Menjou plays her father . The wonderful Alice Brady and Eugene Palette are seen as the generous Frosts , and Mischa Auer plays the family friend Michael .
Cellular phone booth	I recently caught up with this film on DVD format . Any film with Jeff Bridges in it , is worth a view , in my book . Dominique Forma directed , as well as contributed to the screen play . The people involved with this film probably started with a different idea in mind , but it appears they had no clue as how to resolve the main problem behind the story . The end result does not satisfies the viewer , but the ironic twist at the end makes one be glad for the young man who finds a pot of gold without even trying . The comparison between this film and Joel Schumacher's " Phone Booth " comes to mind , as indicated by some contributors ' comments . The only thing is this one takes place inside a van , and not on the street . It has a lot going for it , but the conclusion leaves many questions unanswered . Also , there are many things that are obvious to fans of this genre , such as the crazy old man who is in the background of the story and we sense he is nowhere as mad as he wants people to believe he is . The acting is good . Jeff Bridges shines as Jimmy Berg , the object of the kidnapping . Noah Wyle has a smaller role in the film , but he's just as effective as the man who wants to protect Jimmy's life . Madchen Amick should be seen more often . R . Lee Ermey , Bob Gunton and Jon Abrahams play some of the other interesting characters in the film .
The priest	Father Lorenzo Borrelli's church is located in the Sanita quarter of Naples , one of the worst neighborhood in the city . Father Borrelli has seen enough death among the young people that are recruited by the Camorra , the local mafia , that is behind most of the crimes committed in Naples . This righteous man's voice speaks against all the injustices he sees stemming from the evil doings of the Camorra , yet Father Lorenzo is a man that hides a dark secret in his heart : he is gay and a pedophile . Into this milieu arrives Nunzio Pianese , a young boy in Father Lorenzo's confirmation class . Nunzio , himself , is a young man that is different from the other hoodlums running around in this dangerous part of Naples . Nunzio , who has a beautiful voice , is seen as he sings for one of the local stations ; he loves interpreting those romantic ballads that are so Neapolitan . Perhaps it's inevitable that Lorenzo and Nunzio will become lovers . After all , Lorenzo has had another long term affair with the handsome Gigi , who is older now . Gigi must see in Nunzio what he went through during the times he had sex with the priest . At the same time , Father Lorenzo is never seen threatening Nunzio , as it appears their relationship is mutual . The Camorra wants to get to Father Lorenzo in any way it can . They choose to work through Nunzio because the young man is vulnerable where the priest is resolute . The priest has two strikes against him , he is opposing the local mafia , plus his homosexuality , if known , will certainly destroy his reputation , and it will mean the bad guys have won the struggle while they sideline their opponent . Antonio Capuano directed and wrote the screen play of this film . He uses a ploy to have the different characters in the movie introduce themselves giving us , the viewers , a bit of information as to where , and when they were born . This aspect doesn't do much to advance the story , something we found a bit distracting . The acting in general , by non professional actors , fits the movie well . Mr . Capuando sets the action for his film in the streets of the Sanita district . Fabrizio Bentivoglio , is basically the only known face in the large cast . Mr . Bentivoglio shows a great range , as he becomes furious against the Camorra , to a tender side one sees when he is in the company of Nunzio , who he evidently adores passionately . His scenes with Nunzio show a restraint that speaks volumes about the director of the film , Antonio Capuano , who decided not to go for cheap shots . Emanuele Gargiulo is seen as the sweet Nunzio . Antonio Capuano directed the film with an eye for detail , something that his cinematographer , Antonio Baldoni , captured Naples seamy side in all its splendor . Mr . Capuano makes us think about the role of this priest and his church in our society and how a gay man has to live in order to conform to its unspoken rules that discriminate men like Lorenzo to hide behind his role as a priest .
The escape artist	The plight of an Argentine family is examined in this film . At the time of the military dictatorship , they must hide and get new identities because the imminent danger of being never seen again by their loved ones . This family whose names are never revealed , try to continue their lives as best they can , hoping their hideaway is never discovered . In Spain , as well as in Argentina , most of the films deal with a difficult period of their history that movie makers love to bring to the screen . Thus , the Spanish Civil War , has been explored by the Spaniards , and in Argentina , we have been given films that also show the horrors some people lived during the 1970s when chaos reigned in the country . Kamchatka suffers from being obscure . The story is easy to follow , but audiences not familiar with that period of time , will be at a loss , as many comments submitted to this forum clearly indicate . Marcelo Pineyro , is a director / writer with experience in this subject , having been instrumental in the more superior " La historia oficial " . Working with Marcelo Figueras , they have produced a film that , while engrossing , leaves a lot of things unexplained . The best thing in the film is Matias Del Pozo , who probably was not a professional actor , but who steals the film from the more experienced actors like Cecilia Roth and Ricardo Darin , two giants in the Argentine cinema . As the boy who loves to read about Harry Houdini's exploits , he is marvelous to watch , and a natural at that . Ms . Roth has good moments , as well as Mr . Darin , but their efforts are dwarfed by what they have been given to play . We have enjoyed Mr . Pineyro's work and will be looking forward to his next films .
A mind is a terrible thing to lose .	This was a very real and harrowing film . I went with misgivings since I knew what the subject was about , but fell under the spell cast by director Bille August . This story rings true from the beginning . The film is a lovely love story between Barbara and Martin , played superbly by Viveka Seldahl and Sven Wottter . Barbara , obviously is dealt a blow when the Alzheimer is diagnosed but she proceeds to deal with it in her own terms . Little did she know that her marriage to Martin would turn into the nightmare it did . How do you stop loving and doing for that person you thought about spending the rest of your life with ? The Alzheimer turns Martin into a vegetable . His mind is gone . From the brilliant composer and director , he becomes another person completely different from the person we met at the beginning of the film . Most critics in New York keep comparing this film with Iris . It is very unfair , because obviously all Alzheimers cases are different and don't have to reflect in this case , what went in Iris Murdoch's mind . I have to give credit to the director , Mr . August , who has not taken the easy approach and documents the progress in a very dignified manner . All the performances are on key . The extended families of these couple are very strong behind the parents , which is something very rare to find these days .
New Year's Eve of the Millennium	It's the last night of the year . Pregnant Paloma and her husband , Manuel , are preparing to go to her parent's home to celebrate the arrival of the new year . Paloma and Manuel live in the outskirts of Madrid , in what appears to be a new development where nothing appears to be much populated yet . Manuel , who has borrowed a delivery van from a friend , is not prepared for the vehicle to stall in the middle of nowhere . What to do ? This quick paced comedy , written and directed by Miguel Albaladejo , touches on the lives of several different people that fateful New Year's Eve . It all takes place in the hours before midnight as everyone is getting ready for the celebration . Unfortunately , for the people we meet in the picture , they are not going to have a great time at a party , but they will come closer as Paloma gives birth right after the Millennium has arrived . Leonor Watling and Juanjo Martinez appear as Paloma and Manuel , the expecting parents . Carlos Fuentes and Roberto Hernandez are seen as the men who steal Paloma's father car . Adriana Osores and Antonia San Juan have some funny moments as the attendants of a gas station / convenience store . Emilio Gutierrez Caba is Paloma's father . This production was part of several films commissioned by a French movie company with the theme of the arrival of the Millennium .
Looks can kill you	The world of the teen beauty pageants is at center stage in this satire that is set in Mount Rose , Minnesota , a town where Lutherans appear to be a majority . The 50th anniversary of Miss Teen Princess America attracts a lot of the young women in town . The message in the film appears to be that being beautiful can kill you , sometimes . Gladys Leeman , a former winner , is one of the organizers . Her own daughter , Becky , is competing . She is a prominent citizen of Mount Rose , with her own agenda . The competing girls come from different social backgrounds . One of the most talented ones is Amber , a girl that lives in a trailer park with her alcoholic mother . Mysterious things begin happening to different participants in the contest , the most serious one occurs to Annette Atkins , Amber's mother , whose trailer catches fire and her hand gets attached to the beer can she was drinking . Amber , who is clearly the most talented girl in the contest , loses to Becky , something one knew was coming from the start of the competition . There are funny moments in this film , which was directed by Michael Patrick Jann , and written by Lona Williams who seems to know a great deal about these beauty contests . Somehow , the film must have seem funnier to its creators . There are good moments like Becky's selection for the talent portion of the show . Also , the way most of the girls competing in the state portion of the competition get sick after eating sea food . Kirsten Dunst makes an appealing Amber , the nice girl from the wrong side of town . Kirstie Alley is the force behind the contest and the woman who dominates everything in Mount Rose . Ellen Barkin has some good moments as Annette , but what happens to her is not as funny as it must have looked to the creators of the film . Allison Janney is seen as Loretta , Annette's trailer park neighbor . Denise Richards adds her beauty to the film . Amy Adams , an uncommon talented actress , has a small part as Leslie , a girl that loves boys and ends up having quite a career !
The other side of the fence is not green at all !	This indie film is worth a look because of the enormous talent of its creators , Wallace Wolodarsky and Marsha Forbes . Mr . Wolodarsky has directed the young cast , and he is to be praised for this effort . The premise of the film is a cautionary tale of the danger for wanting something one can't have . Which is the story of Alice and Ed . After living together for a while , Alice suddenly gets restless because she imagines she's lacking experience in the sex area . Alice and Ed's relationship , while not an example of ideal happiness , is a comfortable way to share their lives with one another . That is , until the moment Alice and Claire , her sister , happened to bump into a sexual encounter by another couple that has no clue of being observed . This incident makes Alice reevaluate her own sexual life with Ed ; she finds it lacks substance . When she proposes ' seeing other people ' , Ed is shocked , to put it mildly , but not wanting to contradict Alice , he decides to go along . What happens next is that both Alice and Ed enter into a world that's been unknown to them . The people they meet , in the end , are not worth the trouble . They sadly realize at the end , they were made for each other . The film is worth watching in order to see the amazing Julianne Nicholson , who we happen to have liked in another indie film , " Tully " . Ms . Nicholson reminds us of a young Shirley McLaine ; she projects such a luminous quality about her , that is hard to take one's eyes from her whenever she is in a scene . This young actress proves she is an accomplished performer who gets better with each new appearance . Basically , she carries the movie . Her Alice is a study in contrasts . Alice is a decent woman who thinks she is inadequate in pleasing Ed because of her inexperience . Jay Mohr , is an excellent match for Ms . Nicholson . Both do wonders together . His Ed is perfectly credible . We have known people like him . Deep down inside , he is a good person , who suddenly gets himself in a situation he didn't call for , yet , he goes along only to discover he is too decent and not cut out for a life of gratuitous sex with the willing women that have no problem with a tumble in the hay , just for fun . The rest of the cast is wonderful . Lauren Graham does some amazing work as Claire , Alice's yuppie sister . Andy Ritcher is also wonderful as the grounded Carl , the nerdy friend who finally finds out fulfillment when he meets Penelope , a single mother . As Penelope , Helen Slater , makes a felicitous , albeit of a short , appearance in the film . The director is enormously gifted , who will no doubt go places because he shows he is well suited for the job .
Wallace Beery dances the rumba !	" A Date with Judy " was a typical entertainment that MGM produced over and over as a way of showing its contract players . This film was a showcase to present Jane Powell and Elizabeth Taylor , two of the popular young actresses at the time . While the movie will not add anything to either one of the stars resumes , it's a pleasant way for watching how times have changed . The film was directed by Richard Thorpe , and produced by Joe Pasternak . Judy and Carol are friends from school . Judy is the talented singer who is going to perform at a school party . Carol is the spoiled rich girl who is jealous of Judy . Oogie , Carol's brother , the band leader , is in love with Judy . To complicate things a newly arrived young man , Stephen , has come into town to work for the summer and he is the object of both Judy's and Carol's attention . Wallace Beery is the best thing in the film . He plays Melvin Foster , Judy's father . He refuses to dance at the party with his wife , and thanks to Xavier Cugat's suggestion , he decides to engage Rosita , the voluptuous Carmen Miranda , to give him private lessons . Since the tutoring takes place in his office , and it's surrounded by a cloud of mystery , it appears Melvin and Rosita are having an affair . But the biggest surprise comes at the end of the film when the Fosters are celebrating their 20th anniversary and we watch Melvin , who by now is an experienced dancer , shows off on the dance floor . A delicious moment , indeed . Jane Powell and Elizabeth Taylor are charming in their roles . Robert Stack and Scotty Beckett are also good . Leon Ames , Xavier Cugat , and the effervescent Carmen Miranda make excellent contributions , but it's Wallace Beery , who steals the show . " A Date with Judy " will delight viewers looking for a nostalgic look at an uncomplicated time in America .
The cypher	It's clear what must attracted director Stanley Donnen to this project . The last time he tried his hand at a non musical film , " Charade " , it turned out to be an immense hit . Mr . Donnen probably thought this movie would be as appreciated as the latter one , but alas , even though it's by no means , a dud , on second viewing , there are signs that perhaps he should have sticked to the other genre where he excelled . It must have seemed to be a great idea to throw Gregory Peck , an aging star , who always gave a good performance , against Sophia Loren , at the height of her beauty . Yet , the results are not as pleasing . Ms . Loren , dressed by Christian Dior , seems to be having great fun running around in those beautiful costumes in the construction site where she keeps her schmatte in great shape after almost being killed by the villain working a construction crane . On the other hand , Gregory Peck doesn't seem too convincing to be the hero in the filmThere are parts shot on exteriors where it's supposed to be raining and no one gets wet . One of the funniest moment in the film is when Professor Pollock , who might have been tripping on acid , rides a bicycle against the highway traffic . The scenes at the London Zoo , and the last montage on the bridge are about the most exciting things in the picture . Despite the great titles by Maurice Binder , the copy of the film we watched on cable recently , had a washed out look , which perhaps took away some of the enjoyment of watching this thriller .
Hit and run	As the movie starts , we watch a man on a lonely road at night , walking . We hear an impact and naturally , we think the man has been hit by a car we don't see . After the titles , we are taken to a shoot for a clothing sports line using the label Trash . The main force behind the clothes is being photographed with a hot model . This man , Amir Atrash , seems to be on his way up in the fashion industry . Well , things don't go too well for Atrash , who has to cut expenses when the investment bankers that are behind a deal to take the label to the stratosphere , have cheated on the contract that would make the designer a millionaire . He walks out the deal . Atrash , who has a lovely wife , is not a happy man . This explains why we see him at a party where a paraplegic man is among the guests . Atrash follows him , and his wife because he has a thing to tell Philip , the man on the wheel chair : he was the one that struck him and is responsible for his present condition . This film written , directed and acted by Philip Caland , was a surprise when we stumbled into it recently . " Ripple Effect " is an engrossing film of redemption as the guilty man has carried a burden within him for a lot of years and now , when we meet him , he wants to ask forgiveness as he tells his victim what happened that fateful night . Some of the great cast that was assembled are also producers of this picture and it helps explain how comfortable they feel playing their roles . Forest Whitaker is the paraplegic man . Philip Caland plays Atrash with conviction . Also seen the gorgeous Virginia Madsen , Minnie Driver , Kali Rocha , John Billingsley , among others . The haunting music is by Anthony Martinelli . The fantastic editing was done by two men who know a thing or two about movies , Yvan Gauthier and Joseph Semanse . The camera work by Daron Keet also enhances the film . While no doubt this film will be liked , or dismissed , it's worth a view by discerning viewers .
The third mate	Captain Will Stone , the skipper of a merchant ship , is not the man he appears to be . Tom Merriam , the new third mate hired for the voyage at the center of the story , is an eager man who feels lucky to be serving in a ship where all the men seem to be loyal to the captain . As the trip starts , Tom starts noticing how Captain Stone is undermining his role on board and has the crew turn against him . Sparks , the radio operator , has welcomed Tom and is eager for his friendship . When things start going badly for the new man , Sparks turns away from his friend , until he understands who the real bad guy is on the ship . It's a surprise that Finn , " the mute " , is the only one that comes to help him when everything had indicated he was with the rest of the crew . Mark Robson directed a film that in 69 minutes tells a compelling story and holds our attention . The script by Donald Henderson Clarke has some interesting elements in it . This was part of Val Lewton's legacy at RKO in the early 1940s where he was hired to create films that were part of a horror trend at the studio . The evocative cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca works wonders in the movie . Richard Dix , a talented actor , plays the evil Captain Stone with his usual ease . He was a man that evidently could be seen as good or bad , always making the most out of his roles . Russell Wade plays the eager younger third mate , who finds himself in the middle of a situation he didn't create in which everyone on board turns against him because of the loyalty to the evil Stone . Skelton Knaggs , makes the most of his Finn , the mute . Mark Robson's take on the film makes a satisfying picture that should be seen more often . The film had its share of problems when it was first released , but it's worth a look . It speaks well of what Val Lewton was trying to do at RKO at the time .
A raw diamond	The Jonker family , who barely made a living trying to find diamonds in Africa , suddenly is rewarded when after many years of hard times , they discover the largest stone known to man . The raw diamond is sold on auction . Harry Winston , a New York jeweler was the successful bidder when he pledged a million dollars for the diamond . Imagine his surprise when he received the valuable stone in a parcel post ! The Jonker was divided into twenty perfect stones rather than keep it as a single diamond . We are taken to see the process which the raw diamond goes through and we are treated to the display of the twenty smaller diamonds at the end . Jacques Tourneau directed this one reeler as a documentary . Mr . Tourneau's film is informative as one gets to know how these expensive gems are cut and polished .
Hunting for ivory in the Malaysian jungle	Sarah Morris , who is the intended bride of Hamish Winslow , decides to accompany him to the Malaysian outpost in the jungle before they tie the knot . Sarah , finds out , in the worst way , the horrors of being in that isolated spot , where she awakens a passion on a lonely man whose sexual appetite she awakens . The post is run with an iron hand by an English woman , Mrs . Jones , who has a creepy son , William . He begins spying on Sarah through cracks in the hut where she and Hamish are staying . This lonely man sees the attractive Sarah as a sex object that he craves . William goes berserk when he finds out his own mother has someone else in mind to succeed her in running the business . As another contributor has remarked , this film , although different , seems to recall another one , " At Play in the Fields of the Lord " because its exotic setting and oppressive atmosphere . Sarah and Hamish feel they are not welcomed in this tight knit group from the start . The film ends with a surprising turn of events . Having seen Janet McTeer act in the theater , both here and in London , and having admired her work , we decided to take a look at " The Intended " , which was co-written by Ms . McTeer and director Kristian Levring . Ms . McTeer's Sarah goes through a great transformation in the remote outpost and the dynamics that bonded her and Hamish Winslow are put to a test . The rest of the cast does a good job to convey the isolation and frustration they experience in that remote area where they encounter themselves . Brenda Fricker , Tony Maudsley , J J Field , Philip Jackson and an almost unrecognizable Olympia Dukakis , do justice to the story . The film is slow as molasses . Perhaps some cutting would have helped to make the film achieve better results because it certainly had the potential and a great actress , Janet McTeer to hold the viewer's undivided attention .
A portrait of a pioneer in medicine	Emily Dunning was a determined young woman when she decided to go into the medical field . What attracted her to this area of science was a role model she met during a family crisis involving her mother at their arrival in New York . When the mother collapsed , she goes out trying to get help , but there are no physicians in the neighborhood , except the kind Dr . Yeomans , a woman doctor , who not only treats her mother , but is instrumental in inspiring young Emily to follow in her foot steps . This story takes place at the end of the XIX century , when women were a rarity in pursuing a medical career . The determined Emily Dunning enters Cornell , where she is the only female in the class . All the male students realize she is in because the love of medicine , but they are not too kind to her . The handsome Ben Barringer is the only one that seems taken by Emily . When Emily is ready for her internship , she is accepted by a New York hospital . The head of the department makes it clear about his feelings toward a woman in the hospital and gives her the worst assignments . Dr . Dunning accepts what's given to her until she proves herself to be an asset to the institution that has been unkind to her . After an outbreak of typhoid fever , Dr . Yeomans comes to the hospital to help and the two women are reunited . Dr . Barringer confesses his love for Emily as he is leaving for Paris on a research trip . This biopic was presented recently by TCM . The movie , rarely seen these days , should be seen more often because director John Sturges ' inspired take on the life of a woman who overcame all odds against her . June Allyson plays Emily Dunning with her usual spunk , given the subject matter a great reading . Arthur Kennedy also did an excellent job as Ben Barringer . Gary Merrill , Mildred Dunnock are seen in supporting roles .
Only four and a half made it	It's hard to imagine what attracted John Farrow into remaking his own " Five Came Back " , which was good . By updating the story to 1956 , nothing really was improved , although the film is good to watch because of the performances Mr . Farrow was able to get from this cast . The first part of the film brings together all the characters into a small airport where they are preparing to embark for another point in South America . The flight is commandeered by Bill Lonagan , who is a strange man that seems to be going through a rough patch in his life . The co-pilot is Joe Brooks , a young man who doesn't trust the older captain . The passengers are an assortment of characters that have been put together by fate , or so it seems . There is the beautiful Rena , who is going to work in a casino . The Spanglers , a professor and his wife who are on a studying trip . Then there is Jud Ellis and Louise , who are going to Brazil , but have missed their flight and are forced to go on the PAL flight . We also find Pete who is taking a young boy , Tommy , the son of a mobster , to his mother and a prisoner , Vasquel , being taken by his guard . When the flight develops problems , the captain makes the decision to land the plane in a valley in the middle of a jungle . While on the ground , they realize the plane has been greatly damaged and all try to put it back in service . Unfortunately , they are surrounded by an Indian tribe that is not kind to their invasion . The film is interesting to watch because of Robert Ryan and Rod Steiger , who as Lonegan and Vasquel do excellent work for Mr . Farrow . There is an ensemble kind of playing in general by the supporting players making the film better than what it could have been and it holds the viewer's attention . A film to be seen as a curiosity .
Fast food craving	Not having seen this film in its commercial run , we caught with it recently when it was shown on cable . Director Danny Leiner has to be credited for the success of this movie . Written by Jon Hurwitz and Hayden Schlossberg , this comedy about two roommates proves to be a winner . The film is well paced and it's hard not to like its humor . The movie , in someone else's hands could have turned to be a disaster . Mr . Leiner keeps things under control as he presents Harold and his friend Kumar , who are one of the funniest duos one has seen on the screen in recent memory . Their antics sound so true that there is not a false moment in the film . Their long ride looking for the White Castle to satisfy their craving for some of those tiny burgers after smoking some excellent stuff is full of amazing situations . John Cho , as Harold , and the irresistible Kal Penn , who plays Kumar , are seen at their best as they are never obnoxious characters like is the case in some other Hollywood movies . A great appearance by Neil Patrick Harris is one of the best moments in the film . The beautiful Paula Garces is seen as the object of these guys ' admiration . Danny Leiner and his creative team and the two stars will have the viewer laughing throughout the film .
The lonely girl	" Sorry , Haters " is a disturbing film written and directed by Jeff Stanzler . In it , d the viewer is taken to meet a lonely woman who is appears to be on a path toward insanity . It combines recent events with the actions of a misguided individual that is bent in destroying a human being . This is a film that gives an opportunity to Robin Wright Penn to create one of the most complex characters one has seen in movies recently . Phoebe has unresolved issues within herself . She sees an opportunity to redeem herself by destroying Ashade , an Arab taxi driver trying to make a living in Manhattan . Phoebe , who have experienced frustration in her life , plays dirty tricks on Ashade , a kind soul that doesn't deserve what is in store for him . Not content with eliminating the taxi driver , Phoebe involves his innocent sister-in-law who is an illegal alien . This woman is dangerous ; she us a mousy individual who wants to get rid of any threats , real or otherwise . That is why she feels she must destroy Ashade , the enemy she perceives him to be . Also , her relationship with a more successful partner , Phyllis , comes into play . Everything changed with the September 11th attacks , which , in a way , propelled Phoebe into insanity . Robin Wright Penn is a joy to watch in the movie . She never makes a false move ; Ms . Wright Penn is an intelligent actress who gets under the skin of any of her screen characters . It's rather doubtful any other female player would have given life to her Phoebe the way she does . Abdel Kenishe is seen as Ashade , the poor taxi driver singled out by Phoebe . Sandra Oh who appears as Phyllis is also in top form . Josh Hamilton is not even credited with his appearance as Phyllis ' husband . " Sorry , Haters " is not an easy film to sit through . The best reward for the viewer lays in Robin Wright Penn's portrayal of a disturbed soul .
Paradise Island	" On an Island with You " offers , as Neil Doyle has already remarked on this forum , escapist entertainment to warm any fan of this genre with the magnificent colors and the music in the film . MGM was the studio that excelled in this type of movies and this Esther Williams vehicle offers a lot of fun . Although predictable , it offers the viewer a nice time at the movies . Directed by Richard Thorpe , the movie takes us to a movie location where a film is being shot . The gorgeous Rosalind Reynolds is the star that combines acting with water ballet and incidental singing and dancing . Rosalind is attracted to a Navy Lieutenant that is serving as technical adviser to the movie . Larry Kingsley , in turn , seems to have fallen head over heels with the beautiful Rosalind . Esther Williams looks ravishingly beautiful in her water scenes as well as in her scenes with Peter Lawford , who plays Larry . Ricardo Montalban and Cyd Charisse play roles in the film and they become involved with one another with the blessing of her mother in a funny scene at the end of the picture . The great Jimmy Durante almost steals the film from its stars . As Jimmy Doyle , the assistant to the director , he plays a key part in the movie and makes it his own . Xavier Cugat and his orchestra are also seen in the picture . " On an Island with You " will not disappoint .
Heaven on earth	Welcome to Shangri La , the Utopian land high in the Himalayas . Frank Capra's account , of the James Hilton book , was a film that ran longer than what the public wanted to see , even if it was an escapist movie . It was trimmed for its commercial run , but then , it didn't made sense and the rest is history , this film died at the box office . It's pure fantasy mixed with Eastern philosophy . Shangri La is modeled after a form of Californian Art Deco . Most of the interiors were ahead of its time , for the Hollywood of 1937 . Unfortunately , it's a movie that's dated . The political incorrectness of the times is as offensive now , as it must have been then , but of course , no one questioned it at the time . The only pretext for taking a second view of the film is Ronald Colman . He was the perfect film hero of that era . He was a dashing presence in whatever he undertook in films . The cast is just as effective . Jane Wyatt , John Howard , Margo , Thomas Mitchell , Edward Everett Stone , H . B . Wagner and Sam Jaffe were exceptional in their roles . It appears that with today's taste in New Age philosophy , this film hasn't been discovered by many more followers who would like to be taken to Shangri La , even if it is via this movie .
The boys in the Santa Monica softball team	We watched this film when it first was released . On second viewing , thanks to the IFC channel , " The Broken Hearts Club " looks a bit dated since more daring films and television series have come out of the closet recently . It must have been a courageous undertaking by its director , Greg Berlanti , in 2000 , at a time that gays were not as prominent as now . The director shows a positive side of the gay life that is not seen often , in that all the characters have values and integrity , something not often seen in mainstream films . The film is an excuse to bring together a group of young men trying to cope with their lives in that environment . There are different stories that mesh well together . At the center of it all is Dennis , a photographer that seems to have his feet well planted on the ground and knows what he wants . The friends are united by Jack , the restaurant owner , who has taken most of the guys under his wing , at his bistro and as a coach them in the softball team . We watch the different situations and how the guys react to whatever comes their way . The acting is good , in general . Timothy Olyphant makes an impression as the serious Dennis . Zach Braff , a film director , himself is good as Benji . Dean Cain is the fickle Cole , who loves a variety of lovers , rather than quality mates . John Mahoney appears as Jack , the older influence on the group in an impressive performance . What director Greg Berlanti succeeded was in presenting young men that appear not to be clichs as in other films of this type . The film is pleasant without breaking new ground .
Hamming Hamlet	" To be , or not to be " , in this version , while taking the basic idea from the classic by Ernst Lubitsch , is not a copy , but a variation on an idea . Under the direction of Alan Johnson , the film is worth a look because of all the people that were gathered to make a contribution . Who knows what Mel Brooks might have been able to do with this movie , but since he's only acting in it , his hands appear to be tied . The idea of Mr . Brooks as a popular theater actor offers possibilities . His wife , Anna , brilliantly played by ( Anne Bancroft ) gives us a chance to observe this wonderful couple at the top of their form . Some familiar faces are also seen . Tim Matheson , makes a great ace pilot , secretly in love with Anna . Charles Durning does an excellent portrayal of the Nazi Colonel Ehrhardt . Jose Ferrer is seen in the pivotal role of a traitor . Probably the best scenes involve Mr . Brooks and Ms . Bancroft singing and dancing . Also , Mr . Brooks makes an incredible take off on Hamlet and as Hitler . While the film is not all what one expects , it's gives us an excuse for watching it and still have a good time while at it .
Mother and daughter	Two wounded and lonely women come together under strange circumstances . Leonora , an aging prostitute , had witnessed her young daughter die . She is a woman with a wounded heart because the guilt she carries . Cenci , the younger woman , is in denial from the loss of her mother . Both are deeply disturbed persons who , as fate would have it , will be united in a stately house in London . Cenci , who has been spying on Leonora , decides she is her dead mother ; both have a striking resemblance , so it's easy to see the confusion in Cenci's state of mind . Leonora , decides to go along in the ruse because she sees the possibility to cash on a situation that has been thrown in her lap . Leonora , though , is not prepared for the arrival of Albert , the late mother's estranged husband , and who is ultimately her downfall . Albert , we discover , has taken advantage of Cenci's vulnerability . He is a predator with incestuous desires for the step-daughter that comes his way when he married the late Margaret . Cenci has been turned off by his advances , but as the man reappears in her life , she sees the fictional world she has built around herself come crashing down . When confronted with reality she reacts violently against Leonora , who has no other choice but to leave the strange household she has been drawn into . Cenci will prove too weak to cope with all that befalls her . We read the original short story in which the film is based years ago . The adaptation by George Tabori of the Marco Denevi tale gets an excellent treatment in the hands of Joseph Losey , a brilliant director in his own right . Elizabeth Taylor got a good opportunity in which to excel . Her Leonora is one of her better roles of that period of her career . Mia Farrow also was a promising talent who surprises with her take on Cenci . Robert Mitchum is Albert , the lecher that abused his step daughter and marked her for life . Peggy Ashcroft and Pamela Brown are quite effective as Cenci's eccentric relatives .
The local weather girl	It takes a talented director and his collaborating screen writer to turn a typical American story into a bourgeois French drama with a different take on the same basic premise . That is what Claude Chabrol , and Cecile Maistre , who is also his step-daughter , accomplished with this film about obsession and lust that involves a an emotional triangle that one knows is doomed from the start . Gabrielle Deniege , a young television weather person in Lyon , seems to be enjoying herself ; she has a promising career and from what one sees , she is the object of desire by her TV boss , who will , no doubt , push her to bigger things in exchange of sexual favors . Alas , Gabrielle has a mind of her own , but even she can't resist the advances of the much older Chales Saint-Denis , a writer she happens to meet at the store where her mother manages . Charles takes a shine to the young woman , who in turn is seduced by the idea of being with the older man . At the same time , the rich young heir of a pharmacy fortune , Paul Gaudens , appears at the same book signing session . He too , it seems , is impressed by young Gabrielle . He begins pursuing her , but little does he know Gabrielle is already involved with Saint-Denis . The older lover takes her to his secret apartment in the city , as well as introducing her to the naughty club he frequents . He has another thing in mind , as we shall learn later on . In the meantime , when the old man decides to go on a trip to England , he drops Gabrielle to fend for herself . Paul , seizes on the opportunity to show how much he cares by taking her to Lisbon , although their affair is , in a sense , a puritanical one . Since Gabrielle senses that Charles is out of the picture , she decides to marry Paul on the rebound . When Saint-Denis shows up again , it's already too late . This film that evidently was made for television shows a different Chabrol , a man who has made a career as a master of the suspense . Alas , there is not so much in this picture , but the viewer is hooked from the beginning of the story , as he knows there will be fireworks out of the elements at stake . The three principals , Ludivine Sagnier , Francois Berleand , and Benoit Magimel , that appear as the angles of the romantic trio , do fine work under Mr . Chabrol's direction . We particularly liked the work of Mr . Berleand , who gives us an excellent chance to enjoy his nuanced performance . Ms . Saigner keeps getting better all the time , and the same could be said about Mr . Magimel , a promising young actor who worked with the director in " La fleur du mal " . Caroline Sihol , who is seen as Paul's mother , gives a touch of class as the rich and controlling society woman . Even a minor Chabrol is better than most of what comes out of France these days .
The aviator	Imagine the plight of Richard , a painter , whose real passion is flying . When we first meet him , he is seen atop a building in London wearing his home made wings . He has ripped his canvases and other works , at the height of his despair , and fashions a flying device for his jump . When he falls into the protective police contraption , he doesn't suffer a scratch , but it lands him in front of a judge who orders him to do community service . Richard , whose relationship with Anne apparently ended badly , decides to relocate to a rural area where he finds a place in the country with a large barn he plans to use to construct his own plane . Richard ends up trying to help Jane Harchard reluctantly . She is a young woman suffering from A . L . S . , or Lou Gehrig's disease and is confined to a motorized wheel chair . Jane is extremely intelligent , but has a dark side and a salty vocabulary . She uses a hand held device to speak sometimes , as her speech is not clear . What Jane loves to do is to lose her virginity , at any cost . Jane and Richard clash as they meet , but a mutual tolerance soon makes them comfortable with one another . Jane , who watches porn on her computer , has a notion for finding someone like Richard Gere in " American Gigolo " , who will , for a fee , have sex with her . When Richard takes her to London , they find the right man for the job . His fee is exorbitant , but they agree . Since they have no money , Richard decides to rob a big bank . Unfortunately , things don't go according to plan when Jane realizes that she can't go through with what she had wanted . At the end , Richard takes Jane for a ride in his crudely built plane for the thrill of her life , something that brings them closer , as they find an affinity with one another . Peter Greengrass directed this quirky film which presents an unusual situation . Jane is clearly not the romantic heroine in mainstream films , and yet , she has such a sweet aura about her that is hard not to feel for her and what she is trying to accomplish . Mr . Greengrass shows an affinity Richar Hawkins ' material he wrote for the film . The movie doesn't try to be cute or give a rosy picture of a young woman afflicted with an incurable disease . Helena Bonham Carter is the main reason for watching the film . She makes a wonderful Jane . On the other hand , Kenneth Branagh doesn't seem too well suited for this type of comedy . Somehow , he has problems of his own in the way he interprets Richard . Gemma Jones has some good moments as Anne , Richard's former love . " The Theory of Flight " shows a good director . No doubt Peter Greengrass will go to bigger and better things .
Break in artist	This film must have gone directly to cable . It's a credit to the director and writer of " The Best Thief in the World " to have enticed such talent as Mary Louise Parker , Audra McDonald , Lois Smith and David Warshofsky to appear in it . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading . We meet young Izzy sitting on the ledge of an apartment building in Upper Manhattan . He appears to be trying to jump . We don't know anything of what will be revealed later , so we are not prepared to see this little boy break into apartments . Izzy is a disturbed child growing up too quickly in a hostile environment . His own life has been shattered by the stroke his father has suffered and has him bound into a wheel chair . In a way , this is Izzy's way to escape his lot in life . By going into other people's apartments , Izzy is venting his frustrations for what life has given him and his family . He feels empowered and invincible ; he can pull all those stunts and never be caught , or so he thinks . Izzy is hanging out with a rough group of children . All what this little boy wants , and never verbalizes , is that he wants to get out of the apartment where his father is a sad reminder of what his life has turned out to be . When Izzy discovers the money hidden in a hollowed bible , instead of stealing it , he just scatters the bills all over the house . In his childish mind he is telling the dwellers of the house they are vulnerable to having their homes broken into . Sue , his mother , on the other hand , is trying to cope with the collapse of her life . She has to face reality because Paul , her husband will probably will not be able to earn a living and support his family anymore . Sue has no clue what Izzy is doing because she is too preoccupied about how to make ends meet . The director has created a sort of Greek chorus showing two young black boys rapping ' gangsta rap ' which is shocking . We watch in disbelief how they utter all kinds of profanities right at us , maybe to let us know that what we are seeing is nothing in comparison with what ghetto children have to face on a daily basis . This is a disturbing movie , but it has its rewards because of what Mr . Kornbluth has been able to get from his talented cast . Michael Silverman makes an impressive Izzy . It's impossible to take one's eyes from this tiny actor ; he holds his own playing opposite more experienced and established actors . Mary Louise Parker's portrayal of Sue is a study in how a person can be defeated despite of being a good person . Ms . Parker is always a joy to watch . Audra McDonald , Lois Smith and David Warshofsky are all excellent in their roles . We look forward to future films by director Jacob Kornbluth
The salesman	It's easy to dismiss " The Last Time " because like most people that have commented about it keep comparing it to David Mamet's " Glengarry Glen Ross " , an adaptation of his play directed by James Foley . While this film presents a different situation , basically , it is easy to see why Michael Caleo's film will be likened to the other one . In fact , Mr . Caleo made his name writing for television . His claim to fame is tied to the success of " The Sopranos " , for which he contributed . We are introduced to the sales department of what might be a corporation involved in computer systems , although nothing is made clear . The star salesman is Ted , a man with a filthy mouth and an aggressive attitude toward his prospective customers . He totally dominates the work force because he is a successful salesman who generates a lot of revenue for his company . In spite of his exterior , Ted is a lonely guy . We see him getting to his huge loft apartment , a sterile atmosphere . One thing he can't be blamed for is the amount of books in the place ; he is a big question mark with no apparent relationship at the moment . Ted is given the task of breaking in a new salesman from Ohio , Jamie , who has been hired based on his previous performance . Ted obviously hates the assignment . There is no love lost between the men . Ted realizes Jamie doesn't have what it takes to make in New York , a tough territory , indeed . When Ted meets Belisa , Jamie's fianc , he sees a gorgeous creature ready for the attention his groom to be doesn't give her . The two embark into a dangerous affair that could only lead to trouble , as we watch it play out . In the process , we discover that Ted was a professor of literature at Northwestern . He has turned into sales from the world of academia , quite a change for him , or anyone for that matter . Ted , in a way , sees Jamie as the person he is not . In fact , that is the reason he goes after Belisa . Having conquered her , he has nothing else to prove . The whole reason for watching " The Last Time " is its star , Michael Keaton . He runs away with the film . Model , turned actress , Amber Valletta , is a beautiful woman . She is believable as Belisa . As the addled salesman from Ohio , Brendan Fraser convinces us , but his presence can be irritating .
Sounds of silence	An important look at the world of deafness that is seldom seen on television is the work of Stephen Sachs , whose play he adapted for the small screen , and directed by Joseph Sargent . The creators take us to a situation not often seen on television . This is a small project by all accounts , yet it takes the viewers behind the reality of people that face a hardship most of us don't know anything about , and even discrimination from ignorance . In the case of the Millers , what seems to be a happily adjusted family , the wife , Laura and the young son , Adam , live in a world where sound , as one knows it , is absent . When young Adam is taken to a hospital to be treated from a nasty fall , the intern that takes care of the wound , suggests a cochlear procedure so the boy can hear . Dan , the father , begins to ponder on the benefits Adam would receive , but the mere thought of it triggers a confrontation with Laura , who is reluctant to have her young son submitted to an operation with what she thinks is a risk she wouldn't like to take . That episode is what triggers a war between Dan and Laura , who decide to separate and get involved in a custody battle . At stake is what Laura perceives the loss of a culture for Adam . After all , she has lived a somewhat happy life in an loving environment with Dan . Her parents , who are deaf as well , never reveal a family secret that involves her . This movie is a bit different from what is shown in some family oriented channels . The casting of Jeff Daniels as Dan Miller , was a stroke of luck for the people involved in the film . Mr . Daniels is a natural who is good in anything he plays . Marlee Matlin , a deaf-mute actress is appealing as Laura . The supporting cast adds another dimension to the story . This is a film that goes where others don't dare to go .
Copycats	Why bother to fix perfection ? The Coen brothers didn't take into consideration the fact they were messing around with a beloved classic of the English cinema that was the real thing . By placing the story in America's South , a territory that appears often in their films , would have seemed they had the right setting in their update . Well , the Coens , who are one of the most talented people in American films today , don't have a clue of how to make this version better . As far as this movie being fun , judging from the reaction on the screening I attended , it didn't arise any laughter at all . The best thing going for the film is Tom Hanks , as the oily , fake Professor G H Dorr , a man with a gift of glibness . The other reason is Irma P . Hall , as the landlady , Marva Munson . Ms Hall is an actress who tends to steal the show from under more established performers . Having seen her on stage , as well as other films , it is a rare treat whenever she graces anything with just her regal presence .
Detour to hell	" Purgatory Flats " , shown on cable recently , is a small movie that packs a lot . Harris Done directs with style . The screen play by Mr . Done and Diane Fine makes a good thriller . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you would like to stop reading . The film is the story about a young L . A . doctor that made a mistake and lives to pay for it . Upon being released from prison he wants to hide in a small town where he feels he will be forgotten . Bad choice ! What Thomas Reed finds in Purgatory Flats is hell in the desert . Right after landing a job as a bar tender , Thomas meets a pretty young woman , Sunny , who , clearly is someone to stay away from . The young doctor is called to help as Sunny's boyfriend Randy , is gunned down by a drug dealer . We get to know Randy's family . His uncle Dean appears to be OK , but his brother Owen is a loose cannon . Every one in the household is connected in more ways than one to the nubile Sunny . The performances are fine . Vincent Ventresca is Thomas , the man who should have gone to his L . A . practice instead of making a detour to the small town . Alexandra Holden is Sunny , a young woman with a tremendous ambition to escape her surroundings . Kevin Alejandro , Gregg Henry , Brian Austin play the men in the Mecklin family well . Nicholas Turturro makes also a good contribution as the drug dealer . The film shows a director with promise who will go far judging from this tightly constructed film .
Speaking in tongues	Isn't it remarkable that the Hollywood establishment passed the opportunity to invest in one of the biggest blockbusters of the year ? For all its critics , Mel Gibson has come up with a winner . It was almost a case of " if Mel makes this film , the masses will come " , and they are responding in record numbers wherever this movie plays . As far as the film itself , it could have gone a bit easier on the violence , but otherwise it doesn't break any new ground as far as cinematic art is concerned . The lesson for the critics of Mr . Gibson's picture is : Never under estimate the power of making a film spoken in Aramaic and Latin with English subtitles !
An innovator	" Carbine Williams " is a seldom seen film . It offers a rare James Stewart in a role that was so opposite to the kind of characters he usually portrayed . The film which was based on a real individual , David Marshall Williams , gives us a glimpse about his life in rural North Carolina . The film , directed by Richard Thorpe , should be seen as a curiosity piece showcasing a great actor . Marsh Williams ' life was not a happy one . He had the misfortune of being at the wrong place , at the wrong time . Without being a criminal , he was condemned to jail . His time in prison was not exactly a happy one because everything conspired against him . Marsh had high values and evidently , he was ashamed of even corresponding with his family . It takes a wise man , Capt . Peoples , a warden from the facility where he was serving time , to see that Marsh had the potential for achieving greatness , as he proves at the end . James Stewart plays a much younger man with conviction . Mr . Stewart was an actor that always delivered in spite of playing against type . In fact , his performance is more nuanced in this film . Jean Hagen , the good girl who marries Marsh , is also good . Wendell Corey has the more interesting role of the warden who sticks his neck out because he believes in a man , that by right , shouldn't be helped . Veteran actors Paul Stewart , Porter Hall , James Arness , Rhys Williams , Otto Hulett , and Leif Erickson are seen in supporting roles . " Carbine Williams " is worth a try because of all the elements that went into the production of the film .
An inspector calls	" The Shamrock Conspiracy " banks on the enormous appeal of its star , Edward Woodward , who was seen doing much better work in his old television series " The Equalizer " . As directed by James Frawley , this movie feels that it might have been done as a pilot for a new series . While the film is by no means horrible , it doesn't break new ground . We get a situation in which several people are being victimized by a serial killer . The retired Scotland Yard inspector , Edward Harrison , visiting his estranged daughter in New York , is drawn into the case that his future son-in-law is following as a press spokesman for the NYPD . Harrison's keen observation helps solve the case , as was expected . As Harrison , Edward Woodward still shows he has the charisma that made him a favorite that he was . In minor roles we see Elizabeth Hurley , Jeffrey Nordling , Kim Coates and Daniel Van Bargen . This is a film for fans of Mr . Woodward .
The Martin Luther King book	Gabriel is a tormented corporate lawyer . His life has been marked by two influential women , his mother and Tessa , his wife . His mother was a violinist of great talent who died when Gabriel was young . His life on his own takes a detour when he is involved in an incident that lands him in juvenile jail . Gabriel , who wants to learn to play the flute , seeks Ken Malik , a black man that appears to be suffering from disease and loneliness . Gabriel arrives as Ken is attempting to commit suicide . The two embark into a journey that reveals how much in common both have . The two become great friends . At the same time , Gabriel , who has a horrible boss at the firm , is asked to stay until late to finish a contract when he had planned to celebrate his anniversary . Michael , the boss , seeks the lovely Tessa . Michael also is instrumental for sending Gabriel away to look at different data at the South Carolina's deposit . Gabriel , who has been talking to an analyst throughout the film , reveals to him all what has been happening in his life and reveals things he had well hidden within him . " Mitchellville " , an interesting film directed by its star , John Harkrider , is a beautiful film to watch thanks to the production design by Mylene Santos , who gives the film a wonderful depth as she sets the story in minimal sets that contribute to enhance the mood Mr . Harkrider was trying to accomplish , no doubt . The cinematography is by Barron Clirborne and Soopun Sohn , who did wonders with the camera work displayed in the film . The jazzy music background is by Matt Mariano . Mr . Hackrider got excellent acting from his ensemble team . Herb Lovelle gives a wonderful performance as Malik . Michael Voyer , Anna Lodej , and the rest of the cast worked well under the direction of John Hackrider , who plays Gabriel . Although this is a small film , it surprises because it has a look that other bigger budget films would love to have .
The fugitive	The hilarious " Wrongfully Accused " is a mixture of popular movies . The spoof works well because one can't help comparing it with the models in which Pat Proft , the clever writer / director of this movie has based it on . The outline follows " The Fugitive " , but there are also overtones of " North by Northwest " , " Casablanca " and " Fields of Dreams " among others that Mr . Proft makes fun of . One can't even begin to think of anyone for the main character of Ryan , but Leslie Nielsen , an actor whose contributions to the genre are delightful and funny . Mr . Nielsen does good work in this movie , and the viewer has a good time watching all the antics displayed on the screen . The supporting cast is also effective working with Mr . Nielsen . Richard Crenna plays the Lt . Fergus Falls who is trailing the wrongly accused man , but is never able to apprehend . Kelly LeBrock and Melinda McGraw are perfect as the women in Ryan's life . Michael York has a small part . " Wrongly Accused " is fun to watch with the family or a group of friends as it will keep the viewers amused by all the insanity Leslie Nielsen brings to the movie .
The Blackberry	With the advance of technology , would be Lotharios had better pay attention to the information they load into those devices because , chances are , a new girlfriend will get her hands on it , and then , disaster . Which is what happens to Stacy , the young woman at the center of this comedy : she finds out about the ongoing relationship with Derek's former love interests . Nick Hurran directs this sunny comedy , which we didn't see during its commercial run . " The Little Black Book " proves to be much better than some of the comments about it when it made its debut . Melissa Carter and Elisa Bell are credited with writing the screen play . The story centers about Stacy , an eager young woman who wants to make it into television . Diane Sawyer is her idol , and Carly Simon , and her music , have been constant companions for her and her mother , who finds Ms . Simon songs adorable . When Stacy is accepted as an associate producer for the Kippie Kann's talk show , she believes that's the stepping stone for bigger and better things that will follow . Well , how wrong she is proved to be ! When she falls in love with Derek , the hunky sports anchor , she gets more than what she bargained for . Barb , an older producer of the talk show , who has taken Stacy under her wing , is instrumental for unlocking the secret behind the other women in Derek's life when she shows her colleague how to use the program of Derek's Blackberry that he has left behind while covering out of town games . The discovery of a hidden part of Derek's life gives Stacy a chance to meet the other women with the pretense of auditioning them for a television program . What Stacy doesn't realize is how Barb is double crossing her . In fact , the joke is on Stacy , as she is surprised as being at the center of Kippie's talk show . The experience devastates her . Stacy's career seems to be over because of the way Barb exposed her to a viewing audience and the women in Derek's life . The film ends in a positive note though . Brittany Murphy , as Stacy , makes us care about her . Holly Hunter though , is magnificent as the heartless Barb , who thinks she is doing Stacy a big favor by unmasking the truth . Julianne Nicholson , one of the finest young actresses in movies , plays Joyce , one of Derek's former girlfriends . Kathy Bates has not much to do as Kippie . Ron Livingston is seen as the hunky Derek . Joseph Tobolowsky , Kevin Sussman are among the supporting players that contribute to make this film fun to watch . Nick Hurran shows lots of talent and he indicates he is up to the challenge in future projects .
Don't forget me !	" Remember my Name " , directed by Gabriele Muccino , kept reminding this viewer about his previous film , " The Last Kiss " , because in both , the main characters at the center of each story are named Carlo and Giulia . Could this 2003 has anything to do with the other one ? Or was it just a coincidence ? We don't get any actual fact to tie both movies together , but in a way , the two movies deal with an inner crisis that the two Carlos must face and come to terms with . This new film has a frenetic pace in the first hour . It seems as though Giulia and Carlo's relationship is strained , despite the somehow normal family life they lead . This is a film that asks a lot from its viewers , as they try to keep pace with the quick tempo Mr . Muccino gives the picture . It's clear to see that things aren't exactly the best between husband and wife . Carlo is at a point in his life where he can't deal with a job he doesn't care about and Giulia wants to go back to an acting career that didn't materialize when she married Carlo . Valentina , the young daughter , wants to pursue a career in television where beauty and a fast friends view her as a desired commodity . Paolo , the son , is an uncool youth who wants to belong in a world he is not cut out for . When the gorgeous Alissia enters the picture , Carlo can't resist seeing her again ; they have been lovers before , but have lost track of each other in the succeeding years . Their relationship has a negative effect on both households , as Alissia is by now married , and Carlo loses his head when he decides to quit his job and renew his relationship with Alissia . When Carlo suffers a freak accident that sends him to the hospital for a long time , Giulia and the children rally to support him . In fact , this should be something to change Carlo's attitude in forgetting Alissia , but is it ? We realize the accident and his gratitude to his wife and kids will be questioned again when we see him in the final moments of the film in the supermarket where he sees Alissia with her two young children as they make last minute Christmas preparations . Fabrizio Bentivoglio makes us care for the complex Carlo , a man whose passion has been dormant for a long time . Laura Morante , plays Giulia , the woman who has to make choices and wants to keep everyone together . Monica Belucci is seen as Alissia , the one that never stopped loving Carlo . The movie has a great look thanks to the camera work of Marcello Montarsi . The music by Paolo Buonvino is also an asset in the film . Gabriele Muccino , with this new movie proves to be an important voice in the Italian cinema today and we await for his new film with interest .
Mobsters in Chicago	" Party Girl " is a rarely seen movie directed by Nicholas Ray . This 1958 picture mixes styles , and at times , it achieves an originality that only a director like Mr . Ray could give any movie he directed . Basically , we are given a situation in which a lawyer who defends the criminal element is caught in the way he must deal with a situation where he has to turn against his loyalty to his mobster employer because , at last , he sees the light and the consequence of his actions . Robert Taylor plays the lawyer , Tommy Farrell . This was his last film that marks the end of his long and successful association with MGM . Robert Taylor makes an appealing Farrell , and even though one realizes he is defending people that are at the margin of the law , his character shows redeeming qualities that make him merit our sympathy . The actor is perfect in the role . Cyd Charisse playing a dramatic role is a surprise . In fact , she was always seen in musical roles because of her talent as a dancer . In the film she plays a chorus girl that suddenly is elevated to a starring role in front of her former colleagues because of the influence Tommy Farrell had in those circles . Ms . Charisse holds her own against an accomplished actor like Mr . Taylor . This is one of her best opportunities in the movies . Lee J . Cobb is seen as the criminal boss Rico , who has a tremendous power over Tommy Farrell . Mr . Cobb shows he could do anything in movies as well as on the stage . John Ireland plays the evil Louis Canetto . This is a film that fans of the work of Nicholas Ray shouldn't miss .
Outsmarting the mob	Not having a clue as to what this film was about , we took a chance when it showed on cable recently . It appears " High Heels and Low Lives " , directed by comic actor Mel Smith , must have gone directly into video , or at least , we don't recall it having played commercially in the States . The film offers an unusual pair of Thelma and Louise wannabes , who learn about a gang having a great fortune gotten from a robbery and decide to take things in their own hands to outsmart the criminals in order to steal their cash without much effort . Shannon , a nurse , befriends a struggling American actress , Frances , even teaching her how to speak with the proper accent . Both women succeed in unexpected ways to get away with the loot . The film works because of the chemistry between Minnie Driver , who plays Shannon , and Mary McCormack , seen as Frances . This was a felicitous pairing because of the fun they must have had making the movie . Kevin McNally appears as Mason , a criminal without any redeeming qualities and who deserves to be outwitted by the women . Michael Gambon has a great time impersonating Kerrigan , an aging gay mobster . Mr . Gambon usually seen in heavier parts , contributes to the success of this movie that doesn't pretend to be anything but a fun time for the fans not looking into a complicated time with a DVD .
Death wish	" Morlang " is a movie that has not been seen in this country except in film festivals . It deserves a look . Director Tjebbo Penning , having also collaborated in the adaptation shows he has a sense of style in the way he has layered this picture . Basically , it's the story of a painter , whose work was much admired , but is currently going through a crisis caused by his past coming to haunt him . Julius Morlang is a man who loved Ellen , his first wife . When she gets sick , Morlang is supportive until he realizes Ellen has not been a model wife at all . Her betrayal triggers a set of events that will actually bring chaos to his life with Ann , the much younger woman he has married after the death of Ellen . Paul Freeman , an actor who has worked in television extensively , is the troubled painter . We watch him at various points of the Morlang's life and Mr . Freeman does an excellent work with his role . Equally effective are Diana Kent , who plays Ellen , and Susan Lynch , as the younger Ann . The film tend to involve the viewer because it's never clear from the beginning how the character of Morlang is unraveling before our eyes , or what provoked it .
Dinner with friends	Michael Blieden wrote the play in which the film is based . " Melvin Goes to Dinner " is a fast paced adaptation directed by Bob Odenkirk . It was a refreshing movie in which the writer , Mr . Blieden , has opened up the play in a satisfying way . The premise of the film is a dinner among friends . During the dinner we get to know the dynamics among the diners . These yuppies are not the shallow individuals we might have taken them for . During the course of the dinner while the tongues get loose with the drinking , we realize what's really going on . The conversation is easy , and friendly , which is what happens when people that haven't seen one another for some period of time , will pick up where they left off the last time they met . The young cast is likable . The author , Michael Blieden plays the leading role of Melvin . Matt Rice is Joey . Annabelle Gurwitch is Sarah , the woman who is connected to one of the friends in a way the others have no idea . The revelation makes sense . Stephanie Courtney , as Alex , is good . Jack Black appears in a cameo . Bring another bottle of Pinot Noir , please !
1 East 91 Street	" The Anderson Tapes " , directed by Sidney Lumet , showed up recently on cable . Having read the Lawrence Sanders novel years ago , we basically didn't have a clear recollection of the action . As adapted by Frank Pierson , the film shows Mr . Lumet at what he does best . Totally filmed in New York , it offers a glimpse at the way the city looked during those days . The only thing that doesn't seem to work with the film is the way the electronic surveillance shows what Duke Anderson and the crew he puts together were about to do , at all times . Why the eavesdropping is going on all the time is only explained at the end of the film , something that doesn't make much sense because the ones doing the spying are completely aware of what Anderson is going to attempt all along the movie . Sean Connery makes a wonderful Duke Anderson . He works well under Mr . Lumet's direction ; he keeps the film going as the man with the plan for a caper that will help him retire from the business of being a thief . Dyan Cannon plays Mr . Connery's affections . She is the one who is the key for the gang to access the posh building . Christopher Walken made his film debut and it's hard to recognize him when he first appears . Martin Balsam , Ralph Meeker ant the rest of the cast made valuable contributions to the film .
Sam Campbell , P . I .	" Crime by Night " is based on a book by Daniel Mainwaring , who went to write some of the best screen plays of the genre . This 1944 B movie was directed with great style by William Clemens . The film has good moments , but best of all is the presence of Jerome Cowan in the main role of the private investigator , Sam Campbell . Sam is called to help a man accused of killing his father-in-law , a crime he didn't commit . Sam arrives accompanied by his assistant , Robbie Vance , who he calls " Candy Lamb " . The story takes us to meet the corrupt sheriff Max Anders who is running for reelection . We also meet the cunning Ann Marlowe , a shady woman who has an interest in all we are seeing . Sam Campbell solves the mystery with assurance . For being a B movie , " Crime by Night " gathered an interesting cast . Best of all , Jerome Cowan , who played in a lot of films of the genre , most notably in " The Maltese Falcon " . Mr . Cowan didn't make it big in the movies , but in this one , he is quite enjoyable as the sleazy man who knows where to go to unmask the truth . Jane Wyman is hardly seen , although she is quite effective in her small part . Faye Emerson plays Ann Marlowe with style and conviction . Cy Kendall is the crooked sheriff Max Anders . Eleanor Parker and Charles Wilson are also seen in smaller parts . Another comment to this forum says it all in the praise to TCM for keeping these forgotten movies alive by presenting them from time to time to new audiences .
The baker's daughter	The life of Annie Mary changes completely after the death of her mother . Annie Mary , who had a beautiful voice , suddenly stopped trying to sing opera . Her life in the small Welsh town is boring , to say the least . To make matters worse , her best friend , Bethan Bevan , is struck by cancer . Annie Mary , who is a loyal friend , wants to help her sick friend go to Disneyland . Annie Mary's father , Jack , has a bakery in the town . We see him as he makes his deliveries in a Luciano Pavarotti's mask and singing in his beautiful tenor opera arias that are much admired by the people of the area . When he suffers a stroke , Annie Mary's life goes into a tail spin . As a caretaker , Annie Mary is useless . As much as she tries to make a go at being a baker , she never makes it work . In desperation she turns to Mrs . Madoc , her father's girlfriend , to buy her out . As a way to help Bethan , Annie Mary and a few of the town's women , she decides to enter a contest in Cardiff . They have prepared to do a number of the Village People , " Y . M . C . A . " , but they are horrified when they arrive at the hall where the competition is going to be held , and watch a group of men doing exactly their number , much better . The women decide to change their act into a sort of " Three Tenors " aria in which Annie Mary , wearing an inflated rubber suit , floats into the audience . Needless to say , they win , but emboldened by the turn of events in her life , she gambles all the money into a horse race and loses it . Annie Mary becomes Ogw's most hated person . What's more the trip to Disneyland is too late for Bethan , who suffers a relapse . It's at this point that Annie Mary finds her voice again and she gives her friend a rendition of Puccini's aria " O mio bambino caro " in a shaky voice that gets better as the scene changes to another location . Sara Sugarman , the writer and director of this screwball comedy was lucky in casting one of the most talented actresses working in films these days : Rachel Griffiths . Ms . Sugarman gets a tremendous performance out of Ms . Griffiths , who shows her range in a role she was born to play . Jonathan Pryce is also excellent as the distant father who can't see eye to eye with his daughter . Although sometimes the accents get a bit hard to follow , the luminous presence of Ms . Griffiths and the sure direction of Ms . Sugarman make us overlook that minor problem and enjoy the comedy .
I don't know what art is , but I know what is art when I see it . Georgia O'Keefe	It is easy to see why art lovers will flock to see the film adaptation of the Tracy Chevalier book , but Vermeer , the master of Delft , is not in this movie at all . Granted , it is a pleasant time at the movies , but as far as telling us something about the genius behind a meager art production that the world has come to love and cherish , it will have to wait for another film with better material than this one .
Life by the lake	" Life according to Muriel " is worth a look . Director Eduardo Milewicz fares much better with this film , than with " Samy y yo " , which was done after . Mr . Milewicz , working also on the screen play with Susana Silvestre , takes us to the south of Argentina to a place , that for all practical purposes could well be the end of the earth . The film opens as Laura is cramming her small car with her possessions . Muriel , her young daughter wants to know where are they going . Laura and Muriel end up in the deep South of the country . As they stop to contemplate the view of a lake , their car goes out of control and plunges into the water with all their belongings . Laura discovers a small house nearby where a lonely woman and her two children live . Mirta , is reluctant to let them stay . It appears Mirta also has given up on another life and is now living in that remote spot and wants no company . Mirta makes a living making jams and marmalades that she gives to Tony , a kind fellow , to sell for her in nearby markets . Tony , who secretly loves Mirta , never sends the letters she entrusts him to mail for her because he is in love with her . Mirta , finally realizes Laura's life and hers share a lot in common . The two women decide to rebuild the hotel that had been part of the house they now share . The sudden arrival of Ernesto , who is Muriel's father , absent from their lives for seven years , puts a strain in the household , which by now , has a nice rhythm of its own . Muriel is told who Ernesto really is , and they bond . As the weather has gotten nicer , Laura's car is finally going to be rescued from the water , but in the process , a gruesome discovery is made . The film is nice to the eye . The only thing that doesn't make sense is Ernesto . Since Laura has told no one about where she is staying , how does he get to that remote spot ? Things are not explained . Also , it's clear Ernesto is Cuban , which seems to be another contradiction in the story . Mr . Milewicz asks a lot from us , as this situation doesn't ring true . Where Mr . Milewicz succeeds is with the acting he got from this ensemble cast . Soledad Villamil and Ines Esteve do good work as Laura and Mirta , and young Florencia Camiletti is perfect and sweet as Muriel .
The old sod	This film was shown recently on cable ; it was a refreshing change of pace . This 1948 movie , directed by Henry Koster , is a delightful experience for the young at heart and for those of us enchanted by the Irish folk lore . The movie's plot is just a pretext to present Tyrone Power , one of the most handsome actors of the period , in a light comedy that takes him to Ireland , the land of his ancestors , to discover himself . The story is a fantasy , if not , how could we believe in Stephen's transformation by what he witness at the waterfall by the river , or his encounter with Nora at the inn ? Not only that , but no sooner than he is back in New York , Horace , the leprechaun , makes an unexpected entrance in his life , and suddenly he discovers Nora riding the IRT ? This is a movie to be enjoyed because of the marvelous cast . Tyrone Power plays Fitz who is a different man from his experiences in Ireland . Fitz , evidently , having drunk the Irish whiskey , and eaten the Irish stew , is a changed man . Mr . Power plays this man effortlessly . Equally excellent is Cecil Kellaway . His Horace is a man that has all the magical powers to lure Fitz back to the " old sod " . Horace is a clever old man who can see right through anyone . Anne Baxter is also a great asset . Ms . Baxter and Mr . Power had a nice chemistry . Her Nora shows the right balance to attract Fitz and make him fall in love with her and with Ireland . Lee J . Cobb's Augur , doesn't have much to do , but he is good as the man who wants to please his daughter above all things . Jayne Meadows made a rare appearance in the movie as Frances , the spoiled girl that wants Fitz for herself and will do everything in her power to get him . This movie was a rare find . Watch it and cherish it with an open heart .
An unmarried woman	Consider poor April Epner , she gets married late in life to Ben , a man that will prove emotionally unstable . April's desire to be a mother consumes her . She realizes her chance for conceiving is almost nil after Ben leaves her ; this man is a mamma's boy , if ever there was one . What is April to do ? As if it weren't enough , April receives a blow when her adoptive mother dies suddenly . She learns the hard way about who her real mother is : an egotistical television hostess . At the same time , April , who is a school teacher , begins seeing a single father , Frank , who seems to be the perfect man for her . Is it too much for April to hope for some happiness in her own life ? Watching the last frames of the film one realizes that all what she wanted does indeed comes true . Helen Hunt , the director and co-adapter of the novel by Elinor Lipman , does good work with her first assignment behind the camera . After all , Ms . Hunt has been behind the action for a great part of her life . She proves she has a voice to be considered , even if this effort doesn't satisfy as a whole . Ms . Hunt , who appears as Helen , had the tough task of being in two places , something than even more experienced people have not been able to pull . Her April shows a resolute individual who was born to be a mother , yet nature had a way for denying her wish . Matthew Broderick , who is seen as Ben , the boyish man , makes an impression for bringing that character to life . Colin Firth , a distinguished presence in any film , plays Frank , the man who cares for April . Even Bette Midler , who is April's biological mother , shows restraint in a role that would have been wrong played by someone else . This film debut shows Helen Hunt in a dual capacity . Ms . Hunt deserves another chance and one could only hope for a good source for the material of her next project .
Queen Bee and Wannabees	Rosalind Wiseman wrote the novel that Tina Fey adapted for the screen . The result , " Mean Girls " is a statement about what it's like to be a student going through high school today . In fact , it presents an ugly side about how school , a place for lasting friendships , camaraderie , and just a place for learning is everything but that , according to what one witnesses . In fact , in order to navigate its cliques and groups , one needs a route map in order not to offend anyone . " Mean Girls " is directed by Mark Waters , who gives it a light touch . At the center of the story we find Cady , a newly arrived girl who has lived in Africa and has been taught by her parents . Since they are back in the country , they enroll their daughter so she can have the experience of mixing with her peers . Cady , who is a sweet and naive girl unexposed to the real world , finds friendship with a pair of unpopular students , Janis Ian and Damian . Cady is guided through the ropes by her new friends who suggest to her to penetrate the world of the " Plastic " trio who are the local fashionistas in their school . These young women live to dress for school ; instead of studying , the trio has their own set of rules , which totally confuses Cady , who adapts , but she has no feeling for her new acquired friends . Cady makes the mistake of liking one of the Plastics former boyfriend , the hunky Aaron . When she confesses it to Gretchen , this one tells her that is a no-no according to an unknown code of conduct because Aaron is Regina's former boyfriend , and she is to stay away from him . Cady excels in math , but she decides to play dumb in order to have Aaron like her . That develops into more than friendship until Regina intervenes . " Mean Girls " will be loved by teen age girls , the audience for which the film is targeted . Lindsay Lohan is immensely appealing as the newly arrived Cady . Rachel McAdams and Lacey Chabert are Regina and Gretchen , respectively . Tina Fey plays one of the teachers in the school who is wrongly accused of being involved in drugs . The film is fun to watch thanks to the young and talented cast in it .
Love is on a spiral	" The Last Place on Earth " came as a total surprise . We took a chance with this indie film brilliantly directed by James Slocum who also wrote the screen play . Mr . Slocum achieves a small film that is a feast for the eyes as well as a story that we know can happen . The music score is by Eric Swanson . The thing that knocks the viewer out is the perfectly beautiful cinematography created by David Dechant ; without a doubt , this film is gorgeous to watch because of all the natural settings that serve as background to the story . Also , the movie is greatly helped by the amazing editing of Frederich Wardell . Mr . Slocum ought to be congratulated for not turning this film into a weep fest . Rob Baskin , the young man at the center of the story suffers a great loss when his mother dies . Her dying words seem prophetic for what Rob would experience after this tragedy . Taking some time off he runs into a young woman who is not afraid to give him a piece of her mind . Rob is taking time off from his boring bank job . Later , on the road , he meets Ann , the outspoken girl , and it turns out to be a match that will serve to liberate him from what he is doing in life in order to pursue his true call : music . The film has such a sharp look , greatly helped by the vistas of the west one is taken to by Mr . Slocum in this voyage of discovery . Dana Ashbrook and Tisha Campbell play Rob and Ann two young Californians that fall in love . Phyllis Diller is seen briefly as the dying mother too sick , we know she will not survive . Also Billy Dee Williams has a small part as Ann's doctor . Brook Peters , another distinguished actor , plays Ann's father . We shall be looking forward to other films by Mr . Slocum and wish him well in his future work .
The radio show host	Gabriel , an author and radio personality has just ended a gay relationship that has left him wondering about many aspects of his life . The life he shared with Jess is over . Ashe , his boss , tries to interest in a manuscript written by a teenager , Pete Logand , who is suffering from AIDS . Gabriel contacts the youth , who confesses to have read his books , to give him a word of encouragement . Whenever Gabriel calls the young man , he also talks to a sister , Donna . After a while he realizes Pete's and Donna's voices sound alike . Gabriel decides to go to their rural Wisconsin community to meet the young man . As he gets there , Gabriel finds himself in a situation he didn't bargain for . The elusive Donna turns out to be a blind woman . After being found , Donna does everything possible to hide from Gabriel where his brother is being treated . There is a clue to Donna's real personality in the last sequence of the film in which someone is visiting a new housing development . We get a peek of why the mystery behind the figure of Pete . Patrick Stettner directed the film . Based on a screenplay by Terry Anderson and Armistead Maupin , it presents a complex situation about what is real and what is not . One thing is clear , Robin Williams is a better dramatic actor and keeps getting better all the time . This actor tends to go wild when not given tighter directions by the people at the helm of any project . Toni Collette , a welcome addition in any movie , doesn't make the best impression with her work here . It might be she didn't quite felt comfortable with the character she plays . Rory Culkin , Sandra Oh , and Bobby Cannavale are seen in minor roles .
Culinary art made avant-garde	Alex , the aspiring artist who paints geometrical images on wood , seems to be highly influenced by Josef Albers , the abstract painter whose geometrical canvases were a rage in the fifties and sixties . Alex is not that lucky though . As the film starts he receives a rejection from the gallery owner who tells him , more or less , to keep his daytime job delivering pizzas . To make matters worse , his girlfriend Yvette , dumps him . What's a struggling young artist to do when he is locked out of the place he had been sharing with Yvette ? Well , finding a new apartment in Los Angeles proves to be an easy thing ; luckily Alex doesn't live in crowded and pricey Manhattan . He gets a place in a building where Ray , the super , proves to be a friendly guy . Next , we get to meet the neighbors , who include the whining Sylvia , a woman who loves to cook " junk casseroles " made with Spam , which Alex finds revolting . There is also a prostitute down the hall and a Latin gigolo who is much too cool . When apartment 11 becomes empty , a nice young woman , Lori , rents in . Alex , who is reluctant to get involved , at first , likes his neighbor and suddenly they are into a nice and cozy relationship . Alex , unfortunately , runs into trouble when he misreads Lori's invitation to meet her parents . Things go worse when Lori starts seeing a lawyer from the building where she works . In desperation , Alex , who doesn't know what else to do , and feels the inspiration to paint escape him throws one of Sylvia's casseroles to one of his paintings and that gives him the idea about what road to take to sell his newly made avant-garde paintings . And yes , Lori comes back to him when it's clear they were made for one another . Imagine a new director blessed with a dream casting ! This must have been Dan Bootzin's coup in making this charming indie comedy . Mark Ruffalo , as Alex , is the main attraction for watching this neat movie . Having seen Mr . Ruffalo in the New York stage , as well as having seen most of his films , we were looking forward to watching this one . He doesn't disappoint ! It appears the director had a nice rapport with his talented cast . Beth Ulrich plays Lori with a naturalness that surprises . Alan Gelfant is Ray , the intrusive super , and Mary Coleston has some excellent moments as the busy-body Sylvia . It's a shame Dan Bootzin is not kept busy directing , as he shows he has a knack for the job .
A vivid imagination	" Paperback Romance " , as this film has been marketed in this country , is worth a look if only to watch two splendid performers at their best . Gia Carides and Anthony LaPaglia made this movie watchable since the plot is paper thin . The film begins in a public library where Eddie overhears Sophie thinking aloud her erotic fantasies . Her voice alone , heard from the other side of the partition , has the quality of transporting anyone into the realm of Sophie's mind . Eddie falls for the enigmatic woman whose voice he can't forget . We soon realize about Sophie's physical problems . One would think that given the condition of this young woman , she would stay away from Eddie , but she starts pursuing him until the moment when she has to tell him the truth . Will he reject her ? Well , stay tuned . The end will not disappoint . Ben Lewin working behind the camera and writing the screen play is helped tremendously by his two principal actors . Anthony LaPaglia will never give a false performance . Having seen him on the stage , as well as in films , one can only say this actor is amazing , no matter what he plays . The beautiful Gia Carides is excellent . She makes one care about Sophie . This is a feel good movie with excellent actors .
Life is a cabaret	This film played locally some time ago . Unfortunately , it came and it left before we had a chance to take a look at it . Evidently this must have been a labor of love from its director , Robert Cary and its star , Isabel Rose , who co-wrote the screen play . The film presents us with a situation typical of New York , where a lot of would be performers gravitate because of the different opportunities the city has so much to offer . The first scene sets the tome for the picture . Billie , appearing at the third rate club is trying to sing the title song , but everything gets in her way . The pianist decides to have a pasty as he's about to accompany her ; the people in the room , are distracted ; one of the barmen starts the noisy blender ; finally , a jet goes overheard , rattling the place . What's a singer to do ? We follow young Billie to an audition in which the accompanist does a horrible job at the piano . When finally someone is kind enough to hear what this young woman has to offer , he suggests to improve on her piano playing . She ends up going to the cheapest teacher , and surprise , surprise , he is Elliott . The movie was shot in and around New York City . We see some lovely scenes shot around Riverside and Central Parks . The atmosphere of New York is captured by the creators of the film into a pleasant movie , that will charm anyone looking for a modestly good time . As Billie , Isabel Rose , is excellent . She projects an innocence about the way she conceives her life around the music she loves . Andrew McCarthy plays Elliott , the piano teacher that falls for Billie , little by little . As her boyfriend , Greg , Cameron Bancroft is fine . Also in about three scenes in the film , the fabulous Eartha Kitt is seen doing what she does best , being herself ! A good movie to watch on Valentine's Day !
Memories	" American Gun " directed by Alan Jacobs was a surprise . Not having heard about it before , intrigued me . Mr . Jacobs , directing from his own material , has created a movie that on on level is telling us we are going on one direction , but in reality , he is playing with us since the trip he is taking us is not what we had in mind . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you would like to stop reading . Martin Tillman , the man at the center of the story , is a man that still remember his days during WWII ; how can one ever forget those horrors lived in that , or any other , conflict ? In flashbacks we get to know how young Martin and the lovely Anne , meet , fall in love and marry eventually . Their union seems to be a happy one . They have a daughter , Penny , a single mother , who returns home for the holidays after her own daughter , Mia , leaves her home . Not all is happy among the Tillman family . Martin , who is in his seventies , appears to be a man not at peace with himself or the world . When Penny is mugged during a trip to the store to return Martin's Christmas gift for Anne . Penny meets an unexpected death , or does she ? Mr . Jacobs is too devious to tell us the truth , thus contributing to the mystery surrounding Martin's resolve in finding the man who killed Penny . Thus begins a series of trips into different areas of the country . All these trips end in failure . Martin keeps compiling data and we feel as though he is close to get his revenge . At this moment in the story , Mr . Jacobs intervene to show us in flashbacks the missing links of the gruesome murder . We realize then that Martin has not been interested in resolving the crime at all . James Coburn made his last appearance on this film . He appears as though he is in great physical pain . As he proved in " Affliction " , he was an actor to be reckoned with , although sometimes , his choice of projects was not exactly the best . Yet , he surprises us playing Martin Tillman . He obviously understood this troubled man and the price he is paying for his sins . Virginia Madsen is seen briefly at the beginning of the story and in flashbacks . Ms . Madsen makes the best of the ill fated Penny . Barbara Bain plays the suffering wife , Anne . One wonders whatever went wrong in Anne's early love for Martin and the bitter person she turns out to be in her later years . The murder of Penny clearly contributes to alienate her from her husband . Ms . Bain short time on the screen makes an excellent contribution to the film . Mr . Jacobs underlying message is about the American fascination with guns , but he is not judgmental on the issue , as some comments in this page seem to criticize him for doing . This is a serious movie dealing with an controversial subject .
Action force	" The Sweeper " was shown recently on Showtime . Not having seen it before , we decided to take a chance that paid off well . That said , the film is by no mean a great one , but the director , Joseph Merhi , did wonders as far as filming some of the most amazing sequences of the genre . The story is nothing new . A secret organization recruits young cop , Mark , to join their forces . He has been selected after killing bad guys in the line of duty . Deep down inside , he is always looking to revenge the death of his parents . The opening scene of " The Sweeper " offers a car and motorcycle chase down a pier in Los Angeles that keeps us wondering how was it achieved . The next thrilling sequence involves the grown up Mark , now an undercover cop , pursuing a mugger who has stabbed one of his partners into a nearby building . How was Mr . Merhi and his crew able to shoot that chase on the roof of a high rise in downtown L . A , is beyond comprehension . The whole thing feels real . The same goes for another car chase on a busy highway in which gas tanks are sent into the road and then ignited by the bad guy Mark is pursuing when he fires at them . The last montage involves a small plane that lands on the highway and Mark manages to hold to a wheel . As an action movie , " The Sweeper " , offers a lot to the viewer that sticks with it to the end . Joseph Merhi did the impossible to bring these images to the screen .
Deafness	" And Now Tomorrow " a Paramount release of 1944 showed on cable recently . Directed by Irving Pichel , a veteran Hollywood man , with a great cast that made the film more enjoyable than it should have been . Raymond Chandler , an unlikely candidate to adapt the original novel , was on hand to co-write an intelligent screenplay . This was a vehicle for Alan Ladd , who was one of the most popular stars of that era . Loretta Young had second billing , but gives a stellar performance as Emily Blair , a rich woman who finds out she is deaf . To her rescue comes Dr . Merek Vance , a man of humble origins who grew up poor in Blairtown , the city that is dominated by the rich Blair family . The treatment Dr . Vance wants for Emily is not exactly proved to cure her illness and runs the risk of doing more harm than good . To make matters worse , Emily's fianc , the aristocratic Jeff Stoddard , falls in love with his future sister-in-law , Janice . Jeff is too decent to turn away from Emily , even though his heart belongs to another . Emily who finally realizes she doesn't want to be married to Jeff , and a possible disaster is averted . After all , Emily gets to know that her doctor has more than her cure in mind , since he also has fallen for the good and kind Emily . Loretta Young did wonders with her Emily . Alan Ladd was also effective with his portrayal of Dr . Vance . The supporting cast includes Susan Hayward , Barry Sullivan , Beulah Bondi , Cecil Kellaway and Grant Mitchel . Although a bit dated , " And Now Tomorrow " will certainly not disappoint to fans of this genre .
A quest for getting answers about a sister's mysterious death	Jennifer Egan's novel was brought to the screen by Canadian director Adam Brooks in a film that , based on some comments from contributors to this forum , sounds a bad proposition , but in fact , it's much better than one is led to believe . This is a story about two sisters who loved one another dearly . Faith , the fair headed and happy-go-lucky hippie girl , takes her younger sibling , Phoebe , under her wing . Phoebe plainly loves Faith ; when the older one decides to follow her boyfriend Wolf to Europe on a summer vacation from Berkley , she promises she will send Phoebe a post card every day . Faith does that , until the cards stop coming in and one night , some time later , the family receives a phone call to inform them Faith has died under tragic circumstances . Phoebe can't forget Faith . That is why after some years pass by , she decides to take the same route the older sister took . She takes the cards from Faith and visits each place , starting in Amsterdam , then moving on to Paris and she wants to end up the trip in Portugal , where Faith encountered her untimely death . In Paris , Phoebe hooks up with Wolf , who by now , is not a hippie anymore and is living with his girlfriend . Wolf , tries to persuade Phoebe into abandoning her trip and to go back home ; she suspects that Wolf holds the key into solving the mystery , and as she is going to depart for Portugal she makes a discovery when she finds a picture that clearly contradicts Wolf's version he has told Phoebe . He feels guilty and , against his girlfriend's wishes , decides to accompany Phoebe to the town where Faith died . The story changes at this point and we go back in flashbacks to what Faith experienced in Europe and what happened in her final days . The best thing in " The Invisible Circus " are the performances of the principals , something that Mr . Brooks has to take the credit for . The big surprise is the range of Cameron Diaz , who , as Faith , seems to select light comedy parts , when she is quite able to do good dramatic work under the right director . Jordana Brewster is seen as the older Phoebe and makes a wonderful contribution to the film . She is a stunning beauty with what seems to be a naturalness for acting . Christopher Eccleston is Wolf and shows he also is capable of doing more serious drama . The sweet Camilla Belle plays the younger Phoebe quite convincingly . Blythe Danner appears as the mother of the girls . The European locations are gloriously photographed by Henry Braham . The film is also enhanced by the musical score of Nick Laird-Clowes and Petra Haden's original song . Elizabeth Kling edited with great elegance . Ultimately , this film shows Adam Brooks in great form as he gives the right tone to the adaptation of the novel and gets rewarded by having the right cast doing wonders for him .
Serafina !	Tennessee Williams was a good friend of Anna Magnani , the great Italian screen star . It was with her in mind he wrote " The Rose Tattoo " , but she never played it in the theater because she didn't feel too comfortable , at the time , in doing the play in English . Anna Magnani was born to play Serafina ; she smolders the screen every time we see her . She is the sole reason for watching the film . Daniel Mann miscalculated in the adaptation , by Hal Kanter , of the play he had directed on Broadway , and it shows . The basic failure is that he made the character of Alvaro Mangiacavallo into a buffoon . Burt Lancaster seems to have been directed to go for laughs rather than being the sensual man he is in the play . He must awaken Serafina from the self imposed mourning she is experiencing at the time they meet . " The Rose Tattoo " has a Greek tragedy feeling . Watch Serafina at the beginning of the film shopping at the grocery store among the neighborhood women . Later , the same thing happens . At the most dramatic moments , the chorus comes to surround Serafina ; it's a ploy to make her react to them and vent her anger at the ignorant women who are her neighbors and clients , but not her real friends . Serafina is a dignified woman who is still living back in Sicily , even though she is now in New Orleans . Her daughter rebels against her mother , who can't understand the American ways . When her husband Rosario dies , her whole world falls apart . Rosario has been the only man in her life and she wants to stay at home and not face reality , until the appearance of Alvaro , who manages to win her over with his simple ways . Anna Magnani gives a performance that is larger than life .
Romantic trio	What goes through a man's head when he is in bed with his much younger wife , Carla , and hears her say in her dream a name other than his own ? Well , if you are Paul , a Parisian analyst , you try to decipher what was on her mind and what appears to be a sexual fantasy about another man . To make matters worse , Paul begins to treat Raphael , the man his wife seems to like . The problem facing Paul is that his professional integrity is put in jeopardy when he realizes the effect Raphael , a young cook , has upon Carla . To make matters worse , Paul suddenly sees how the attraction is real . He must act to bring his wife's infatuation to an end . How he goes about it is another story . That is basically the plot of this romantic comedy directed and created by Bernard Jeanjean . The film is helped by the three stars : Richard Berry , Judith Godreche and Julien Boisselier . This is an enjoyable movie because of the pacing Mr . Jeanjean has injected in the film . Mr . Berry does his best to give life to Paul . The beautiful Judith Godreche is an asset , and the same can be said about Mr . Boisselier . The result is a fun movie to watch because it has a right touch .
Fiddler on the loose	Charles Dance , the actor , has chosen the short story by William J Locke , as the basis for his film . " Ladies in Lavender " seems to have been tailor made for its two stars . This is the story of a young man that is found by two lonely sisters living above the beach . These ladies , of a certain age , take the young man into their home and tend to his wounds . Janet , a widow , and Ursula , her spinster sister , live comfortably in a cinematically beautiful , if somehow faded , elegant house . The young visitor becomes the object of Ursula's attention . This kind soul hasn't had any man in her life , or so it seems . Andrea , who they discover is Polish , awakens a tender love in Ursula . Janet senses there is trouble if this situation is left unchecked , but she goes along catering to Andrea's needs . Both ladies discover that Andrea is a violinist , by profession . They contact the local fiddler so he can lend Andrea his instrument . The young man amazes everyone by playing wonderful tunes that attract the attention of a young German painter visiting the area and overhears the music coming from the cottage . Janet and Ursula don't want anything to do with this young woman intruding in their house , but as fate would have it , she ends up taking the young man away to fame and fortune . The story is neatly arranged for the screen . There's is no logic in how the young man arrives and why don't these two conservative women notify the local authorities . For all practical purposes , Andrea might be a dangerous person . A lot of questions about the absurdity of the situation are never answered by the screen play , let alone how Andrea , in a matter of days , by the magic of the movies , becomes a soloist with the BBC Symphony orchestra , something that perhaps better and more talented musicians never get to do in their lives ! " Ladies in Lavender " is the perfect way to spend almost two hours in the company of Judi Dench and Maggie Smith , two of the most beloved grand dames of the English cinema . Daniel Bruhl is a charismatic actor , as he already showed in " Goodbye Lenin " , and he is as good here . Natasha McElhone , a beautiful actress plays Olga . Miriam Margoyles plays the maid and David Warner is seen as the local doctor . This film will reward all fans of Maggie Smith and Judi Dench .
From the ashes	This remake of the more successful 1965 film of the same title was shown on cable recently . We were curious as to how the great screen play by Lukas Heller had been adapted by Scott Frank . The film , directed by John Moore , has taken the action from the Sahara to the Gobi desert . The result is a thriller that has some good moments , but in the end , doesn't improve in the better made earlier film . The scene for this new version takes us to a remote spot in Mongolia where a woman engineer , Kelly , and her crew , are evacuated because the company she works for decides there is no oil to be found in that remote spot . Next , we watch as an aircraft piloted by Frank Towns , arrives to take everybody to Shanghai , China . A mysterious man , Elliott , who doesn't have anything to do with the oil company , comes along for the flight to China . On the way , the plane suffers an accident caused by the terrible sand storm affecting the region . They land on the desert with only minor casualties . The aircraft seems to be out of commission , but Elliott , who tells the stranded passengers that the plane could be rebuilt , gets to act as the leader of the whole operation . In fact , he is an engineer who knows how to do it . Since they have the proper tools they begin to transform the wrecked cargo plane into something that resembles a toy model , which Elliott promises will fly . Little prepares us for what really turns out to be Elliott's real job . The film has some moments , but the direction doesn't take it anywhere . The cast does what it can with the material they have been given . Dennis Quaid , Giovanni Ribisi , are seen as Capt . Towns and Elliott . Miranda Otto , a good actress , plays Kelly , who didn't exist in the early version . Seen as a curiosity , it will entertain , but for a better take on the same subject , a look at the former version will be more satisfying .
Discovery voyage	I missed this film when it was shown as part of a Latin American Film cycle about a couple of years ago . Thanks to the Sundance network , I was able to catch up with it recently . Having seen a couple of Humberto Solas ' films , I was curious about this one . It is not one of the director's best efforts but it gives the viewer an idea of what is going on in Cuba , a land so near , but yet so far away ! The returning Roberto goes back to Havana to find a mother he hasn't seen in 32 years . As a young boy , he was taken by his father to the country of the enemy , never to return until now . It is curious how Roberto's mind has not changed in the years he spends away from Cuba . He falls right in step with a culture that must be foreign to him now , yet he is so much aware in his own heart where his loyalties are . In order to find his mother , Roberto goes to the extreme end of the island , literally . The film presents a hard panorama for the average person that lives in the island . Even though there is a semblance of criticism , it is always presented in a way that serves the regime propaganda machinery . All what happens there is due to the evil American imperialism , but never because of the government failures . How can anyone justify a losing cause that has lasted this long ? It is only for more evolved political minds to debate that issue . What really is surprising is how everything has a price in US dollars . The lesson seems to be that only those that have access to them will survive in the system . It is pitiful that Marta , Pilar's neighbor is forced into prostitution . The only explanation is she wants to leave the country ! The way Antonio swindles Roberto by charging inflated prices for his services is also condoned since the Cuban has the upper hand over the naive visitor . The travelogue part of the film is sometimes pointless . The joke about the Cuban transportation system goes on too long . The only good thing about this part of the movie is that we get to see the interior of the island which not too many get to see . Jorge Perigurria has done better on other films . Isabel Santos , an actress that has appeared in other Cuban films is much better . At least she is more convincing as the one who , for circumstances beyond her will gets to stay in that country and has to eke out a life out of whatever she can get her hands into . She is the survivor ! Let's hope the director finds a better idea for his next film .
Mergers and acquisitions	The title in English for this film is " Work Hard , Play Hard " , which is the slogan for the McGregor group , the company at the center of the story . Of course , it bears no resemblance with the original French title that perhaps makes more sense . This film deals with the realities of what is happening in the work place today . It's sort of a universal phenomenon in which the fate of people that have given their lives working for a company , suddenly , face an uncertain future . A few of them will end unemployed because these workers are expendable . Director Jean Marc Moutout presents us with the intrigues within a successful company . Philippe Seigner , a young and talented would-be executive type , is hand picked by his immediate superior , not because of his credentials , but because the boss thinks he can carry out the hatchet job without any qualms . Since Laurent has no scruples , he expects nothing else from his subordinate . Philippe meets and falls in love with the single mother , Eva , who sees in the young man someone she can love . Alas , Philippe will surprise her with an unusual turn of events that will separate the two lovers forever . The acting is first rate . Jeremie Renier seems to be a natural actor . Cylia Malki and Laurent Lucas , are quite good , as is the rest of an ensemble cast under the sure direction of M . Moutout .
Our town	" A Family Affair " takes us back to a less complicated time in America . It's sobering to see how different everything was back then . It was a more innocent era in our country and we watch a ' functional ' family dealing in things together . The film also marks the beginning of the series featuring the Hardy family . The film , directed by George Seitz , is based on a successful play . Judge James Hardy , and his wife Emmily , are facing a domestic crisis that must be dealt with . Married daughter Joan comes home after she has committed a social blunder and her husband holds her responsible . At the same time , another daughter , Marion , brings home a beau , who is clear will clash with her father . The happy teen ager Andy , seems to be the only one without a problem until his mother makes him escort Polly to the dance , something he is reluctant to do . Needless to say , Judge Hardy will prove why he knows best as he puts a plan into action to get everyone together again . After all , he is a man that understands , not only the law , but how to deal with those outside forces that threatens his standing in the community and what will make his family happy . Lionel Barrymore plays Judge Hardy with conviction . He is the glue that holds everything together . Spring Byington is seen as Emily , the mother . Mickey Rooney has a small part in this film , but he is as always , fun to watch . Cecilia Parker and Julie Haydon appeared as the daughters , Marion and Joan . Sara Hayden and Margaret Marquis are also featured in the film as Aunt Milly and Polly , the girl that surprises Andy with her beauty . " A Family Affair " is a good way to observe our past through the positive image painted of an American family .
Coming out	Vincent , the teen aged student at a French high school in a suburb of Paris , struggles with himself because he knows that , deep down inside , he is gay and has no idea about how to come out to his friends and to his own family . Vincent didn't need to worry about it , his school mates will take care of that for him when they see Benjamin , the strange new boy at their school who is obviously attracted by Vincent . Naomie , Vincent's girlfriend has no clue of what's going on with him , even when he begins acting strange . Vincent's cover suddenly comes to an end when someone decided to write on the school's wall that Vincent is gay , something he was not prepared to do . Suddenly , his whole world comes tumbling down and it's his own brother who tells his parents about Vincent's sexual preference . Fabrice Cazeneuve , the director , presents the story of Vincent and how he tries to cope with his homosexuality . It's curious the screen play was written by Vincent Molina , whose story this might be , but since nothing is mentioned about it , we can only assume he was writing about his own experience . In fact , Vincent in the film is called Vincent Molina . For this being a French movie , the emphasis is on heterosexual sex concerning Noemie , the girlfriend , as she goes to bed with Vincent , who is trying to cover up his problem , and then , after finding out , she is seen bedding Stephane , a mutual friend . The film , which was made for French television , doesn't break any new ground . We have seen better movies based on similar situations conceived by American filmmakers . There are no shocking gay scenes in the movie , which seems to be of two minds about the subject . On the one hand , the relationship with Noemie plays a big part and Vincent's sexual exploration with Bruno , the boy he thought he liked , takes second place . Vincent is totally repulsed by what he experiences when he meets Bruno at the gay bars of the Marais . When he tries to be bold with Benjamin , his effort is met with skepticism from the other young man . Julien Baumgartner , appears as Vincent , the teen ager who realizes he is gay . Julia Marval , a beautiful young actress plays Noemie , the girl that loves Vincent . Jeremie Elkaim , is seen as Benjamin , the boy that awakens a passion in Vincent , and who at the end seems to be the one that truly loved him for himself .
Survival of the fittest	As the film opens , we are taken to watch Solomon Sorowitsch , alias Sally , the main character now enjoying the life of leisure in a European casino in the company of an attractive woman . The time of the action is right after WWII . That image is shattered by asking us to examine the same character in 1936 . He is a counterfeiter , perhaps the best in the business . Sally makes a good living helping the people wanting to flee Germany with passports that show his ability to produce flawless documents that will not arise the border guards ' suspicion . Alas , Solomon's freedom comes to an abrupt end when he lands in an interment camp because as a Jew , he cannot escape what the Nazi Germans have decided for a race they want to erase from the face of the earth . Sally , fares better when a superior German officer who knows about him takes him to forge English pounds and US dollars in order to flood the currency in world markets , rendering their legal tender obsolete , thus attaining complete domination . " The Counterfeiters " , created and directed by Stefan Ruzowitzky , presents an aspect of that sad time of history . In it , we are taken to observe people like Salomon , who has to go along with his captors in order to survive the horrors of those camps . As such , Solomon fares much better than some of his fellow Jews that had nothing to offer in exchange to the corrupt captors . One of the main reasons for watching the film is the amazing work by Karl Markowics , who as the forger runs away with the film . Devid Striesow is seen as Herzog , the cynic Nazi officer . August Diehl also contributes to the total success of the movie . " The Counterfeiters " show us the horrors of the war in a different context by admitting to what extent human beings stooped in order to survive the horrors of that conflict .
Do with me whatever you want	This film was shown on Encore the other night , proving , that American audiences could benefit from foreign movies such as this one . In fact , it was quite a surprise to see a film that , obviously , hasn't been released commercially in this country . Spanish films , other than the ones from Almodovar , have no market in here . Maribel , a young woman living in a small town in Catalonia , has no opportunities to speak of . She is having an affair with a married dentist who never satisfies her . His father in law , Nestor , a widower , who has a bakery in town , is given a satellite dish by his daughter and the dentist to keep himself entertained . This is how Nestor , the baker , discovers porn movies . When Maribel's mother suggests to Nestor he hires her daughter to help him in the shop , he accepts . Maribel , who is an beautiful woman , becomes the object of Nestor's attention . Maribel is horrified , she wants no part of the older man . Maribel visits her sister one weekend in Barcelona . Angela , works as a dominatrix in a high class place . She gives the sister a tour and tells her about how much money she is making and about her new boyfriend , Benito , a man in charge of a collection agency . The agents that are engaged to collect bills that are due , are made to dress as bunnies . Maribel passes Manolo , one of the agents , who is wearing his bunny costume . It turns out Manolo works for Benito and Maribel feels attracted to him . Angela suggests why doesn't she marry Nestor and that way she'll inherit all his money . Maribel , wants no part of it . Eventually , Maribel consents to marry the older man . Manolo , comes to the town in order to be next to his lover , who eventually is made a widow . But here's where things go wrong for the lovers . Maribel wants adventure and fun . She wants to be free while Manolo only wants to be rich working in the bakery , where he has worked ever since Nestor's death . Ramon de Espana gives the comedy a quick pace that works well . The language is frank and viewers should be warned to expect a lot of obscenities . Not much is left to the imagination as everything is played for laughs . Ingrid Rubio makes a great Maribel . She is the best thing in the film . Alberto San Juan is also effective as Manolo . Emilio Gutierrez Caba , a veteran of Spanish films plays the older man Nestor . " Kill me Tender " its English language title , will surprise fans of Spanish films .
The President's daughter	The main interest in watching " First Daughter " was to see this directing effort by Forest Whitaker , an original actor , who also was at the helm of " Hope Floats " and " Waiting to Exhale " , previously . Mr . Whitaker seems to be having great fun with this project , which centers around the daughter of an incumbent President of the USA that is starting college . The premise lends itself for a lot of unusual situations . Also , the fact that Katie Holmes was playing the principal role was a deciding factor . Ms . Holmes is one of the most versatile young actresses working in films these days , as she has shown in other films . The result is a film that falls somehow into the formula type of movie because it doesn't show anything new , but it's a pleasant way to spend an hour and forty minutes in good company . It won't bore the viewer and there are moments when some sparks of originality from the director can be seen . The only thing we would question is the way Mr . Whitaker and his choreographer , Miranda Garrison , staged the two dancing numbers , first between Samantha and James , then between the President and his daughter . It's the same number , but there is no spontaneity in it . In fact , in both occasions they seem to be following a programmed dance , rather than just dancing for the joy of it . Katie Holmes does a good job as Samantha . Marc Blucas is James , her love interest . Michael Keaton , looking rather old , ( maybe is the makeup to make him look an older statesman ) and Margaret Colin play the first couple and Amerie Rogers is Mia , Samnatha's funny roommate .
Bear cubs	It appears to be a trend in the cinema by presenting the " bear " gay subculture . We already saw it in John Waters ' " Dirty Shame " in the summer , although it's not the main idea of that picture . Of course , the John Waters ' movie has nothing to do with Luis Miguel Albaladejo's superior film where we are presented with the Spanish version of this sub group of the gay culture where overweight men , usually hairy and cuddly tend to get together in bars , or other places where they can feel comfortable with one another . In a way , it's a refreshing way to watch a film like this one that deals with that type of individuals , as they are presented leading normal lives without any hangups or other moral problems . In fact , the dialog is quite explicit as the people in the movie are not ashamed of their sexual preference and even those that aren't gay , keep an open mind about what is going on with Pedro , the man at the center of the story . We get to know Pedro and his circle of friends . They all are normal people and well adjusted . Pedro is a loving man facing the dilemma of being a role model for his nephew , who has come into his life quite suddenly and without warning . Bernardo , the young boy , is wiser for his years as we get to know him better . This youngster , while being curious about his uncle's love life , is never a brat , as he takes everything in stride . The film is a lot of fun for those that will watch it with open eyes . They will be rewarded to a fun time with a touch of reality at the end .
Harold et Maude	The idea of a love affair between a woman in her sixties and seventies would have never been the subject of a film in America . It takes a lot of bravery on the part of the director , Josee Dayan , to bring this story to life , as it most have been the case when Hal Ashby gave us his take in the same subject with Harold and Maude . Certain parts of Marguerite Duras ' life were not well known to this viewer ; her alcoholism , for example , comes across as a surprise . But it is her involvement with a young man that could have easily been her grandchild that must have come as a total revelation to a lot of viewers of this film . Thankfully , it is done in a very subdued manner . Nothing shocks in this December-January relationship . The only thing I had trouble with is the claustrophobic atmosphere of the film , darkly photographed and lighted that uses mainly interiors as the principal sets . Jeanne Moreau has been making films forever , or so it seems . Watching her on screen , the real Marguerite Duras comes out quite clearly . We can swear what we are watching is happening . Ms . Moreau's transformation into the character she is portraying is quite uncanny . It comes as an advantage to this actress the fact she has never undergone an operation to transform her into a much younger looking woman . The young lover's part in this story is much of an enigma . This Yann must have been attracted to Duras by his admiration to her work , rather than by her looks , which , of course , would not seem possible since Ms . Duras is at the end of her life and the young man has not lived his . Aymeric Demarigny is adequate in the part . It is without a doubt a Jeanne Moreau signature film because of her dominance of every aspect of it . This is a film for francophiles , mainly , to enjoy .
The fish doctor	Not being an Adam Sandler fan , we avoided this film when it was released earlier last year . The premise sounded too much like " Groundhog Day " . We took a chance the other night when it was shown on cable , and frankly , we found the movie entertaining . There are more laughs in this than in another , perhaps more pretentious picture , " Punch Drunk Love " . Drew Barrymore and Mr . Sandler had worked together before to surprisingly good results . They show an easy chemistry between them that serves the movie well . The idea of making Adam Sandler an aquarium doctor offers a lot of possibilities ; his scenes with the walrus are hilarious . The supporting cast plays well together . A surprise was Rob Schneider , not one of my favorite actors , either , but in here , under the direction of Peter Segal , he delivers . Sean Astin , as the lisping brother on steroids is quite effective , as well as Blake Clark , as Lucy's father . Dan Aykroyd puts an appearance as the doctor who treats the young woman who has lost her long term memory . Watch it without any preconceptions , as probably it will surprise you .
Inspired by Ingmar Bergman !	Pablo Berger , the director of " Torremolinos 73 " , takes us back to the Spain of the seventies when Franco was still around and where he sets the scene for this satire about the clandestine porno industry . Mr . Berger also wrote the screen play , that at times is mildly amusing by the situation he creates . If you haven't seen the movie , please stop reading here . We first see Alfredo trying to sell books door to door without much success . His boss calls his staff and informs a new revamping in the business . He is going to start a series of experimental films about sex education that will be marketed abroad . The employees are shocked , and only Alfredo and his wife Carmen , and another man , agree to participate . Carmen wants to have children , which seems not to come to her and Alfredo . Carmen becomes a favorite sight in the Scandinavian countries , and she is even as identified in a department store in Madrid by one of her fans . Since their Scandinavian instructors keep on quoting the great Ingmar Bergman , Alfredo decides to make his own film that parallels " The Seventh Seal " . The shooting is in an empty hotel in Torremolinos where Alfredo and his crew are seen filming the movie in the artistic black and white , but suddenly Carlos , the money man , wants a bit of sex in the picture . Alfredo is shocked because since he is not participating , Carmen will have to perform with the leading man ! Javier Camera , who was so good in " Talk to Her " plays Alfredo , the book peddler turned porno film director . Candela Pea makes a good suffering Carmen who is lured into the scheme because of necessity . Juan Diego is seen as Alfredo's boss . The film has a faded look that blends well with the period its trying to reproduce . The film has some funny moments .
Take sleeping pills Will !	The only reason for seeing this film was the allure of Mike Hodges direction . Mr . Hodges is a director that has always delivered . On those merits , alone , we went to see the film , and frankly , even if the film has it's Hodges style , it is an obscure and enigmatic look at the English underground , but a confused look , at that . The screen play by Trevor Preston doesn't make it clear either . If Mr . Hodges was going for symbolism , he certainly got it . At the end of the movie , things are still not clarified and they remain a puzzle in our minds . One never learns , for instance , about the relationship between Will and Helen . The fact that Helen is an older woman , is in contrast with a much younger Will ; it makes us wonder : was she his mother , or was she his lover , or none of the above ? ( Of course , we realized it was the second choice ! ) The reason for Will going away , also , is never fully understood . We assume he was a wanted man , but whatever made him go is never found out . In fact , the character of Boad , at the beginning of the film in the famous rape scene , is gratuitously presented . What was the reason for the buggery ? It is highly unlikely that such thing would happen in real life in that circle , even a sick one , where Boad inhabits . Maybe it could be interpreted as the way the country was buggered by higher forces into going to a no-win conflict ? Clive Owens ' Will is hard to get to like . He is a man on a mission , once he knows the fate his brother Davey suffered , but before that , his ' good guy ' front doesn't make much sense , for a hard core criminal . Charlotte Rampling's Helen doesn't fare much better . She's only in a couple of scenes ; it's clear she and Will are through and it's a cop out at the end that she could even contemplate going away with him , at all ! Malcom McDowell has only a few scenes . His confrontation at the end with Will doesn't add drama to the story . We know that he has to die , but Will hesitates in doing so , until he thinks otherwise . Jonathan Rhys Meyers ' Davey is only seen at the beginning of the film . We don't care for him from the start . There's a couple of scenes with Sylvia Syms , who is not seen much in films these days . With all that in mind , I still will go to see another Mike Hodges film , even a flawed Mike Hodges one , because this man has a vision . He has a panache for presenting his stories , we might like them a great deal , or not as much , but Mr . Hodges will never bore the viewer . For a very balanced account of the film , there's an excellent comment by " lambs " among the viewers that have sent opinions in this forum . Read it !
The dirty little war	Osvaldo Soriano , the author of the novel in which this film is based , got his title from the lyrics of a famous popular tango . His satire was against the military regime that came into being after the second Peron government , a dark period for Argentina , indeed . Hector Olivera directed the film with great sense of style . The screen play was an adaptation by the director and Roberto Cossa . The story takes us to a small town in the interior of the country where a man , who works for the city , has been singled out as being a communist and must be eliminated from his job . The mayor , Ignacio Fuentes , a man of principles , decides to confront the bullies that are trying to impose their own values and have the support of the big man in town , Suprino , who is dead set in purging the bad element from the municipal government , even though Fuentes , is a man that has followed Peron . The confrontation turns violent as Fuentes and his loyal employees do the impossible to resist the attack Suprino , and Llanos , who is in charge of the army , start shooting with all they have . The hand of a strong man is behind all they are doing . Guglielmo , a rich and powerful man wants to have the rebels killed . There is a funny incident in which an aviator , Cervino , loads his small one engine plane with manure and flies all over the people that are fighting Fuentes and drops his " odorous " cargo . The DVD we saw recently is of poor quality . Not having seen the original print , we can't make any assessments , but the story suffers as the dark colors predominate , leaving us in the dark during some key scenes . A great cast was assembled for this film . Some of the best Argentine actors of stage and screen can be seen in it . Best of all , Federico Luppi , who makes Fuentes the best thing in the movie . Hector Bidondi is seen as Suprino . Lauraro Murua plays Dr . Guglielmi , the man behind creating the conflict . Miguel Angel Sola , Victor Laplace , Tacholas , Ulises Dumont , Rodolfo Ranni , are seen in key supporting roles . The film reflects a sad moment in the history of Argentina .
Nostalgic trip	Directors Chris Hegedes and D . A . Pennebaker's documentary , while not clarifying more about the musicians , evoke a bygone era and the glorious music these artists we see in the film gave us . We owe a great debt of gratitude to the talented performers showcased in the film . They gave the American public , and the world at large , some of the best songs of the 20th century . Their stories are presented for their fans to cherish . We remember how great these artists were . These performers take us back to many hours of pure entertainment they gave to their adoring fans and how generous they were with their enormous talent . We see in the movie giants of the popular music such as William Bell , Jerry Butler , The Chi-Lites , Isaac Hayes , Sam Moore , Ann Peebles , Wilson Pickett , Mary Wilson , Carla Thomas . among others . Their stories and recollections are captured in the documentary . This is a film to cherish by all popular music lovers .
They got married and had a child , but didn't live happily ever after	As much as one would like to respond to Ivan Attal's films , one is puzzled about his choice of material . M . Attal seems to be at the center of all his films , and that , perhaps , works against him , as it is one way to lose grasp on the subject that he , as a director is trying to present . Basically this is a film about duplicity and deceit . The clich about the sexual French man is perpetuated here as we get to know Vincent , M . Attal's character . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you would like to stop here . At the beginning of the picture we are taken to a club where we meet Gabrielle , a slim and elegant woman , who is being invited to a drink by the fellow to her left . At that same time Vincent suddenly appears at her side who ends up being rewarded in taking her home . We had no warning that they are a couple . Vincent is seen lounging with two close friends , Georges , the hotel manager , and his coworker , Fred . Inevitably , when guys talk , the topic almost invariably is about women one , or perhaps , all of them have managed to take to bed . Fred , the homely one of this trio , seems to be the luckiest one . He can book afternoon and evening trysts . Our conclusion is either he knows how to please , or is enormously endowed . Gabrielle and Vincent are an unhappily married couple . They are living together in the same apartment , but they are miles apart in mostly everything . There doesn't seem to be any love between them after a few years . Vincent loves to do practical jokes to both his son and to his wife . What Vincent doesn't tell his wife , or his buddies is that he is having his own love affair with a masseuse . Their passionate encounters reveal an incredible passion . One wonders how Vincent finds time from his job and from Gabrielle to be with wife and mistress , although Viagra might be one solution . The only ray of hope in the film is when Gabrielle , shopping for music at the Virgin Megastore stops to listen a sample CD . As she is enjoying the song , a mysterious and handsome man stops at the same listening station to sample the same song . He disappears and she goes after him , but nothing happens . Then , at the end , she has an appointment to show an apartment and who happens to be the would be tenant ? You guessed it ! They are seen on the tiny elevator going up and up into a heavenly ride . This is a film about miscommunication and one dimensional characters . Charlotte Gainsbourg , is always a welcome presence to any films . She projects intelligence in everything she does . Ivan Attal , as an actor is good . The friends Alain Chabat and Alain Cohen , as Georges and Fred do a fairly decent job . Emmanuelle Seigner doesn't have much to do . Angie David and Aurore Clement play Vincent's mistress and her mother . Claude Berri and Anouk Aimee are seen briefly as Vincent's parents without any justification , or perhaps , M . Attal is trying to show us that his parents by staying together for so many years are bored with one another as we don't see them exchange a word , or much less any loving glances as we watch them having dinner in a fancy restaurant . Johnny Depp is seen effectively in his two scenes . He doesn't say much , only a couple of words , but he makes an impact that none of the other characters made during the film .
Promising directorial debut	Kim Rossi Stuart , an Italian actor with a long history in that country's cinema , surprises with his sensitive debut as a director in " Anche libero va bene " . Mr . Rossi Stuart , who helped write the screen play , is to be commended for this excellent effort behind , and in front , of the camera , because he also gives a splendid performance as the father of this family in turmoil at the center of the story . This family of four is dominated by the father , Renato , a free lance cameraman who is raising his daughter Viola , and his son Tommasso practically by himself . His wife , Stefania , has fled the home , only to return briefly . It's a wonder that Tommi , shows a maturity beyond his young years . He is a survivor who has to rely upon his inner strengths in order to deal with what life has dealt him . His loyalty to his father and to his sister are put to a strain by a situation he did not create . Mr . Rossi Stuart gets an extraordinary performance from Alessandro Morace . This child actor seems to be a natural . The camera loves him and no doubt he will be seen in future movies from Italy . Barbara Bobulova appears as the wayward wife Stefania , a woman who shows emotional instability to rear a family . Marta Nobili is the older sister Viola . What Mr . Rossi Stuart has given us is an intimate portrait of a family in turmoil . The director shows a keen insight to his subject matter . We can only rejoice in his achievement and wish him well in his new project .
YSL a man of fashion	This documentary by David Teboul focuses on one of the most original designers of the 20th century , Yves Saint Laurent . This creator , and some of the friends that influenced his life , are interviewed in the film to give us an account of what the man is like . By the end , we have a clear picture of the man behind the fashion . One of the most interesting things that come out in the film is his relationship with Pierre Berge , who was his lover . It's Mr . Berge who had the vision and the business acumen to launch Mr . Saint Laurant to the stratosphere of fashion as it was known then . Without Mr . Berge , one wonders where would have the designer be today . Granted , he had the ideas and the knowledge about what he was doing , but without the hype and the power of his partner , he would have probably been a minor figure in that world . The surprising thing that comes out on the movie is Mr . Saint Laurant's shyness . He is a modest person who doesn't want to wow his interviewer , or the people watching him answer to the many questions he is asked on camera . One of the subjects that come up is his dealing with his own homosexuality , to which he answers candidly how much it pained him during his formative years . Other anecdotes by Mr . Berge and a host of friends is included in this documentary that puts the designer in perspective for even the casual viewer . David Teboul directed well and succeeds in showing us a complex man who was a genius and a revolutionary in the world of high fashion .
Silence	Finally an intelligent film about teen agers . The fascinating novel by Laurie Halse Anderson comes to the screen adapted by the director herself , Jessica Sharzer . The film merits to be seen by a wide audience because it tackles a lot of problems young people , especially young girls . Parents should see this movie because it will be an eye opener for many . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you should stop reading here . Melinda Sordino is a wounded young woman . In flashbacks we see her as a happy and social teen ager , in sharp contrast with the taciturn and lonely girl we watch boarding the bus to go to school as the film begins . In flashbacks one gets to know the trauma that Melinda has gone through . All her bitterness is kept hidden inside her , as she won't talk about it , much less tell her distant parents what made her change . Melinda is a loner by necessity . Her former best friends turned against her because she called the police when the party , that proved to be the turning point in her life , gets out of hand . As a result , Melinda is ridiculed by her peers . " Speak " deals with the complex problems young people have to face on a daily basis in school , a place that should be a place of learning instead of a place that causes most problems among the young people , as Laurie Halse Anderson points out in her novel . The only kind soul Melinda encounters is the art teacher Mr . Freeman . He is a man that doesn't adhere to conventions and seems to be a rebel himself . With his encouragement , Melinda begins to draw and sketch pieces that are crude and devoid of life , but in them , she shows a talent to be a good artist under the right circumstances . Melinda realizes she must come out of the state that is affecting her life by confronting Rachel with the truth , something the other girl is not ready to accept since she is too emotionally involved with the young man that caused Melinda's trauma . The result is a changed Melinda , who suddenly realizes she must confess everything to her parents and go on with her life . The film owes a lot to Kristen Stewart , who as Melinda projects all the emotions bottled up in this young woman . Ms . Stewart appears to be a natural performer who can express all what she is feeling by her expressions . Steve Zahn is seen as the understanding teacher who sees all the potential in Melinda and is instrumental in giving her the confidence she should have . Elizabeth Perkins and D . B . Sweeney are Melinda's parents who should have seen what's wrong with her from the start , but being so involved with their lives , don't pay attention to their suffering daughter . Jessica Sharzer shows a potential for going far as a director because she shows a sensitivity rarely seen these days in serious movies dealing with wounded souls like Melinda Sordino .
Artful dodger	Newcomer Dylan Kidd's first feature is a very refreshing exercise in filmmaking . This is an incredible debut for Mr Kidd . Let's hope his next release will be worth of the promise he shows in this one . Of course , this film would be nothing without the presence of Campbell Scott . Mr . Scott gets better with every new screen appearance . His Roger is a tragic figure in spite of the front he presents to all the women he tries to conquer . The last scenes of Roger in his apartment are nothing short of magnificent . We get to see the real man then , and it's not funny what we see . The interplay with the nephew , Nick , beautifully played by Jesse Eisenberg , is the best acting of the year . The women in the film are brilliant too . Isabella Rosellini is incredible as Roger's boss . The ladies in the single bar , Elizabeth Berkley and Jennifer Beals are true portraits of women that are looking for Mr . Right in the wrong places . This film is a rarity . Discover it .
The last battle	Lucien , the owner of a bookstore in a small town , has a secret ambition : he wants to be a writer . He has written a novel no one has read yet . He shows the unedited work to one of his friends , Mathieu , who happens to be connected , through his father , to a publishing house in Paris . Mathieu goes a step further , he gets Lucien an interview with a prominent editor , the notorious Judith Zahn . Unknown to Lucien , Judith has not read the book he submitted to the the firm where she is the star editor , or has any intentions of doing so . Instead , she instructs an assistant to send the aspiring author home . In fact , Judith , was visited just before Lucien's appointment by her late father's lover , Marthe , who wants to give her his personal effects . It is clear Judith is shaken because of the untimely arrival of Marthe ; she wants nothing to do with the papers of a father she felt abandoned her . Things conspire to bring Lucien and Judith together , but their relationship will be a roller coaster because she is a neurotic woman who has been around that rarefied atmosphere of hype and back stabbing so prevalent in those circles , thriving in her role of being impossible . What Judith doesn't realize is that Lucien has an ambitious project in mind , he is secretly writing a fictionalized account of her father's adventurous life as a militant of leftist causes . We enjoyed this fine film , directed by Catherine Corsini , a new talent that impressed us with her previous work . Ms . Corsini also collaborated with the fine screenplay with Cedric Kahn and Benoit Graffin . The result is a movie that involved this viewer from the start , thanks to the director's light touch in this surprising romantic comedy with a twist . The best thing in the film is Karin Viard , who also played in " La nouvelle Eve " ; her take on Judith is perfect . Ms . Viard gives an intelligent and nuanced account of the editor that is forced to face reality and examine her life . She then realizes she has been living a lie , perpetuated by her own mother who never told her the truth about her father . Equally excellent is Eric Caravaca , who as Lucien , makes quite an impression . This young actor moves effortlessly under Ms . Corsini's direction . Jacques Weber is the television host that has an interest in Judith . Giles Cohen has a funny role as the down-and-out actor friend of Lucien , who in a way , plays the role that changes Judith and humbles her . Ms . Corsini will definitely go far because she shows a natural talent for pulling the viewer into the stories she wants to tell him .
I remember papa	It seems odd the choice of Guy Maddin for the direction of this homage by Isabella Rossellini to her late father , Roberto , one of the great masters of the Italian cinema . Mr . Rossellini was a man who presented the material he wanted to show without gimmickry . Guy Maddin , on the other hand , loves to tell a story using imagery that Rossellini would have probably not approve because the lack of realism in his films . That said , this short documentary , written by his daughter Isabella , an intelligent actress , presents her father as a figure that was in bed most of the time . Ms . Rossellini's tribute comes in the form of an exchange among the great director and David O . Selznick , Federico Fellini , and Alfred Hitchcock , as these innovators tell Rossellini how their ideas differ in what they consider what cinema should be like . Charlie Chaplin pays a furtive visit , as well as Ms . Rossellini's mother , Ingrid Bergman . When she asks her mother if her father ruined her Hollywood career , she answers , that no , it was she who ruined his . Isabella Rossellini acts all the parts in this short , but emotive tribute to an innovator who was way ahead of the others and who , unfortunately , was forgotten toward the end of his life . The combination of Ms . Rossellini's writing and Guy Maddin direction serve the documentary well .
Personal triumph	This film , directed and written by Rebecca Miller , is a very satisfying experience for a new director who , here , is adapting her own material with a lot of relish and savoir-faire . There's a certain elegance in the way she treats her characters , always respectful , yet incisive . The only complain we could raise is the fact that each story is very short , so when we are still savoring each one , individually , Ms Miller , for reasons of timing , pulls them from under us . The first story , Delia , shows a woman's worst fears in being married to a wife beater of the worst kind . She might have had dreams of making a happy home for her family , but her man has another thing in mind . This woman is a step above white trash . She tries hard to get herself together but everything keeps interfering with her independence . Played with gusto by Kyra Sedwick , Delia ends up as a waitress in order to support herself and the children . Her encounter with the bully from the restaurant is an exercise in how low they want her to go , but she comes out a winner . The second story , Greta , is the best of the three . With the help of the great Parker Posey , this Greta comes out as the tough woman she wants everyone to think of her , but deep down , inside her , she's a vulnerable and frightened and unfulfilled over achiever . Ms Posey has never shown so many nuances in a performance that is so economic in the terms that are dictated by the length of the story . We get to know more about her than the narrator ever tells us . Every expression on this actress face is true . It's surprising what has been achieved here with the collaboration of the director and the player . The last story , Paula , is the weakest . It's all about a very confused young woman who's out on the road to see her parents . She has very deep problems . Along the way she picks up a hitchhiker who stays with her through the trip . Paula is in a voyage of discovering , but little does she know that what she needs is what she has left at home : her Haitian man , who obviously cares a lot about her . As played by Fairuza Balk , she shows the turmoil in her head that only she can resolve . We hope Miss Miller's next time out will be very soon because she's got a feel for getting inside her characters and finding angles they didn't even suspect of having .
Freedom cry	Director Siddiq Barmak demonstrates with this film the meaning of freedom . It is the best possible argument for the need to speak the truth about what happened in Afghanistan during the Taliban regime . It is also a first hand view of the atrocities that were committed against Afghani women , most of them defenseless , most of them widowed , whose men died either during the Russian conflict , or at the hands of the repressive Taliban , who in the name of God , killed thousands of innocent people in that war torn country . The incredible thing about this film is that it was done for less than $25 , 000 . It is a miracle what Mr . Barmak has done with this film that uses non professional actors as the main characters . The pivotal role of Osama , the young girl who is made to look like a boy in order to bring food to her widowed mother , and grandmother , is played convincingly by Marina Golbhari . Taking into consideration that she was a beggar from the streets of Kabul , this young woman registers in her beautiful face the horrors she encounters along the way . Unfortunately , she is doomed from the very beginning into a life of a second class citizen where she has to wear that horrible garment over her face at all times because otherwise , as a woman , under that oppressive regime , she could be killed , for only showing her face ! In retrospect , the Taliban , or extremist religious people in that part of the world have it wrong . It is the men that should cover their faces at all times ! The women , with their exotic , dark beauty should let everyone look at them for what they are : gorgeous people that must hide behind a veil .
Picket Fences	This film directed by Rose Troche must have been forgotten by the studio who decided to bring it to the screen and suddenly released it without much fanfare . Granted , it is a small film . It is the kind of movie we don't get to see much because with a lot of independent films , if there are no big names , they don't get a chance to find an audience . Glen Close , as Esther Gold , the suffering mother of a bed ridden young man in a coma gives an honest performance . She is one actress that is always interesting to watch . She makes us believe she is this woman living a nightmare because of the son's accident . Esther's marriage seems to be a loveless one . Her husband is in a different wave length . At the same time , her relationship with her daughter is strained because of the guilt of the young woman carries inside her and doesn't come out until the end . Patricia Clarkson keeps getting better all the time . She is the town's joke because she is the victim of a husband that has fled the home because he has found a younger , more attractive woman . Ms Clarkson is another natural actress no matter where and what vehicle she appears in . I'll just mention two other roles besides this just to show her versatility : True Art and Far from Heaven . Her range is enormous . What a talented lady ! Dermot Mulroney is excellent as the young neighbor married to Moira Kelly . Mr . Mulroney is also very effective in the film . Mary Kay Place's Helen is on target . We don't get to see her a lot and she deserves to be seen . The younger actors playing the various children are very good . Praise should be given to Kristen Stewart , who is incredible as the young Sam . She is a true winner . Director Troche has achieved something unique in bringing all this talent together . She has given us a slice of life with a detailed account on the lives of these characters that seem as though we have known them for many years .
Losing one's mind	James Hilton's contribution to the movies was enormous . His novels have ended up as films that made great impact , as is the case with this film . Mervyn LeRoy must be given credit for bringing it to the screen in a movie that has all the ingredients to keep the viewer glued to his seat . The film is a tribute to a form of entertainment that alas , has just but disappeared from the present Hollywood . Nothing like this film will be done in the near future because of today's tastes dictates the big , if mindless , spectacles full of special effects , favored by today's movie makers . There are things in the film that wouldn't make any sense in our high tech world , but the charm of the many twists and turns make for a charming voyage , as we get lost into this tale of love given so honestly by Paula to the amnesiac Smithy . The biggest challenge to logic is the reemergence of Paula as Ms Hansen , Charles Rainier's secretary . But that's the magic of the film , we put up with every twist and turn because we figure these two will find one another in the end . To have Greer Garson play the role of Paula / Margaret , was a stroke of genius . This actress , with her unusual beauty , made us believe she is that woman whose love for her man is everything . If that object of love was Ronald Colman , one of the most talented leading men of the era , it was well worth the price of admission . Ms Garson was one of the most accomplished actress of the time . Ronald Colman on the other hand , plays his dual characters with a panache and conviction that only actors of that period had . Mr . Colman makes us believe he is Smithy , the amnesiac soldier , as well as the business magnate that he was prior to losing his mind in the war . He made these two men credible as he transformed himself from one to the other with an ease that was uncanny . Susan Peters had a small part playing Kitty , who falls in love with Charles , even though she knows it's an impossible undertaking . This is a film to be cherished by lovers of old American films .
Going blind	Young Lucas , an adventurous young boy , is seen as a fearless creature who seems to be in the wrong place , at the wrong time . When we first meet him , he accompanies his mother to a sort of care center for the blind . There are reports of a slasher that is cutting the faces of some of the blind people that attend the center . When he follows one of the women , who leaves nearby , he watches in horror as her face is slashed by the intruder . Lucas flees to the cemetery nearby , where he likes to play . It's at this point that we realize something is wrong with Lucas , who ends up spying on his half sister posing for a photographer . Then , everything changes . The mere reality is that everything one has witnessed is just not so . The fact is that Lucas is going blind if he doesn't have the operation to save his sight . His loving parents , Frank and Miriam , are ecstatic because they are expecting another baby , something that doesn't play well in the young boy's mind . Lucas , who probably feels jealousy toward the unborn baby , thinks of ways of dealing with the intrusion in his life . His obsession with knitting needles prove to be a dangerous proposition . Mark Peploe , who co-wrote the screen play , creates a film that will be disorienting for a lot of viewers , but which ultimately , satisfy the ones that stay close to the story . There are many indications the first section of the movie is just how Lucas ' mind work , just the opposite of what one sees on the screen . Ben Keyworth , who plays young Lucas , is perfect for the role . He makes the most of his Lucas , by just being where he is . This boy is an enigma who is not immediately understood and has to assert himself . James Fox and Fanny Ardant play the parents . The supporting cast does fine under Mr . Peploe's direction . " Afraid of the Dark " is a film that makes the viewer think because it's not what one sees what's really is going in Lucas ' mind .
War casualty	" Tomorrow is Forever " is a typical example of the type of films that came out of the Hollywood of the 40s . This seems to have been brought to the screen as a vehicle for Claudette Colbert , one of the most admired actresses of that era . Under the direction of Irving Pichel , we get a wonderful account of a woman whose husband is killed during the last days of WWI . The music score by Max Steiner enhances the film , although it feels obtrusive , at times . Claudette Colbert was a prolific star of all the melodramas that were tailor made for her to shine . Her Elizabeth Hamilton in this film is a typical role she , and other actresses , played during that era . " Tomorrow is Forever " is interesting because of Orson Welles ' appearance as the supposedly dead husband that returns under a different disguise . Today's audiences don't have patience to deal with what for the movie going public in the early days were able to allow in the reality department . Some negative comments to this forum express that viewpoint , but in spite of them , films like this will always be immensely rewarding for those fans that feel comfortable with the plots created for this type of movies . Claudette Colbert makes a wonderful Elizabeth . Orson Welles was the real surprise in the dramatic role that Ms . Colbert championed for him , at a time of his life that he wasn't recognized for his genius . George Brent , a reliable actor , is seen as one of the decent men he played in films . Lucile Watson , as Aunt Jessie , is an asset . The young Richard Long plays Drew , the eldest son that has no clue who his father really is , but grows up believing the kind Lawrence is his dad . Natalie Wood as the young German girl , Margaret , showed a talent for stealing scenes from much established actors . This is a film to be cherished by people who love the genre .
The jinx	Contrary to what another commentator to this forum says , Bette Davis was not nominated the year before for an Oscar for her excellent work in " Of Human Bondage " , a much better film than this one . In 1935 , the year after being bypassed for the Academy Award , Hollywood , acting in a forgiving manner , gave her the award as Best Actress . By Ms . Davis ' own admission , Katherine Hepburn should have won for " Alice Adams " . We are not saying she wasn't worth it , on the contrary , Ms . Davis always gave her best in all her films . Sometimes , contributors to IMDb , upon sending their comments , have a way of predicting that the film they are reviewing , or one of its actors will receive the nomination , or the award come Oscar time . In fact , as it seems to be in most cases , bypassed actors on a particular year get awards for work , later on , for inferior work they did that year and were overlooked by the fickle voting members of that body before . " Dangerous " was directed by Alfred Green and based on a story by Laird Doyle . The story of an actress who has fallen victim to alcoholism makes good melodrama . As such , Joyce Heath , Ms . Davis ' character , is seen at the beginning of the film as a woman who wants to forget it all , in order to do some serious drinking . Donald Bellows is a man that was deeply impressed by the actress , who he saw as Juliet in the New York stage , and became obsessed by her artistry . When he meets her at the dive where she is drinking cheap liquor , he believes he can save this woman who is wasting her talent . Joyce , eventually , falls in love with Don , but she is reluctant to marry him , which is a puzzle to us . Little do we know about the secret Joyce Heath is hiding from Don , which comes to haunt her at the end of the film . Bette Davis transforms herself from the opening scenes where she looks disheveled into the glamorous actress of the theater she really is . Her performance is good , but we have seen much better performances by this glorious actress , before this film , and after . Franchot Tone makes an appealing Donald Bellows , the man who tries to save his idol from her addiction to the bottle . Margaret Lindsay plays Gail , who is engaged to be married to Donald . This is a film that merits a look by all of Bette Davis ' fans , as it will not disappoint .
A new take on the classic Western	" Bad Day at Black Rock " is a film seldom seen these days , and it's a shame because this small 81 minutes movie is packed with a lot of action , none of it coming from special effects , or shoot outs . John Sturges directed with great care , and it shows . Most of the photography was done in Lone Pine , California , where cinematographer William Mellor was able to capture the atmosphere of the dusty town and surrounding area with its majestic beauty . Andre Previn provided the musical score that serves the film well . Basically this is the tale of a man , John Macreedy , who arrives unexpectedly to a place totally dominated by a local bad guy , Reno Smith and his lackeys . Smith rules over this little outpost of the West with a tight fist . The least he wants is Macreedy poking his nose in something he wants to keep a secret . Since Reno Smith practically " owns " the town , he names whoever he wants to be the sheriff , a mere figure . Smith knows immediately about the new arrival in town because it appears everyone works for him . Macreedy wants to visit a Japanese man , whose son has saved his life in the war , but unknown to him , he has been dead for quite some time . Macreedy seems to be a symbol of justice finally arriving to town . The only other man that is sympathetic to what Macreedy is trying to do is the veterinarian / mortician of the town , Doc Velie , who proves , at the end , he is up to task . Macreedy prevails in the end . The film is shot basically in long and medium shots , which in a way , it helps to diffuse most of the expressions of the actors in the movie . Cinemascope , with its elongated technique doesn't make things better , as most situations seem to disappear into the glorious backgrounds one sees . Mr . Sturges doesn't use close-ups in the film to accentuate some situations ; they should have helped in getting the viewer more involved in the picture . Spencer Tracy does interesting work in the film . Mr . Tracy was fifty four years old when filming was done , but looks much older . Robert Ryan , an excellent actor is good as the evil Reno Smith . Walter Brennan plays Doc Velie with his usual charm . Ernest Borgnine , Lee Marvin , Dean Jagger and John Ericson are all effective under Mr . Sturges ' command .
Spinning a web	Sam Raimi in his second installment about the comics hero , Spiderman , outdoes himself . The film is not only pleasant to the eye , but it's fun to watch . The technical details are incredible . The movie will keep the viewer entertained with all the high acrobatics and daredevil tricks . The only thing that bothered me , is that this Spiderman is bicoastal , or maybe bicitizen . I'll explain : During the elevated train scene we are given a view of Second City , Chicago , as those trains only circulate in that city , but not in New York , and that's been so for many years . It's incredible that we're watching something taking place in Gotham and suddenly we're in the Loop with danger to fall into Lake Michigan if Spiderman doesn't stop that train . Maybe it was only me , but since I couldn't stay to check the credits , I've no idea if it's indicated in them . Toby Maguire does a tremendous job as the hero who spins webs all over the city . Kirsten Dunst is also appealing as M . J . , the woman that Peter Parker adores . Alfredo Molina is excellent , as always , as the bad scientist who is a monster . Rosemary Harris as the aunt is perfect and James Franco is also good . A fun time at the movies .
Veterans	Howard Deutsch's " Article 99 " is a gripping satire about the Veteran Administration that is in charge of the health care for the men and women that served the country in foreign conflicts and who obviously , have no other means of getting health care . The film is more poignant to watch right now with the problems the country is facing in Iraq because today's soldiers fighting there might have to face the bureaucracy that rules what can , or cannot , be done to veterans without insurance , or money to pay for medical care . We meet a group of dedicated doctors at a facility who are real professionals trying to go around the rules a tyrannical hospital administrator wants to impose on them . Thus , they will resort to stealing supplies that are denied to them in whatever form . It's an outrage to even think that medical care is denied to the people that were at the front lines to defend the country . Ray Liotta is the best thing in the movie . His Dr . Sturgess is a maverick that can do things that others would not dare to do . Mr . Liotta gets a magnificent chance to shine as the idealistic doctor who will do anything to help his patients . Kiefer Sutherland appears as the young doctor assign to the hospital and has no clue what he has gotten into , but learns fast . Kathy Burke is also good as the doctor who opposes Sturgess ' method , only to realize he was right all along . Among the staff we see familiar faces , Forest Whitaker , John McGinley , John Mahoney , Eli Wallach , Keith David , Julie Bovasso , Jeffrey Tambor and others that do ensemble acting in wonderful fashion under Mr . Deutsch's command . The film is an eye opener as to how red tape rules a lot of government agencies .
The dethroned king	This movie came as a total surprise the other night . Intrigued with the prospect of watching Frank Whalley's take on the film , we decided to watch and it paid off royally . Mr . Whalley has learned his lesson well , both in front , and behind the camera . Frank Whalley is a man capable of getting a lot out of his cast , having been in that position himself . The film is a disturbing account on a family that appears to be beyond dysfunctional . The father , Bob Henry , is a man that life has passed him by and has sought company with the bottle ; he is the janitor in his children's school . As seems to be the case with men in this situation , Bob vents his frustrations with whoever crosses him , as we watch in horror the way he beats his wife . Joe , the sensitive young son , is ridiculed in school by a teacher at a tender age , where compassion for his state in life would have worked better . As he grows , he becomes a a young man that will do whatever in order to get what he wants . He begins stealing from the stores he is sent on errands as well as from the restaurant where he is employed as a dishwasher . We watch him as he eats hungrily the leftovers that come his way before washing those plates . Eventually , Joe will go to stealing from his boss and getting into trouble that will scar him for life . The only kindness Joe receives is from the teacher counselor in his school . The best achievement for the director is the acting quality he gets from his cast . Noah Fleiss , who portrays Joe , is the best thing in the film . He is a young talent to watch . Val Kilmer is seen as the father who seems to live in a permanent fog caused by his heavy drinking . Karen Young is Theresa , the suffering wife . Ethan Hawke plays the kind hearted teacher and Camryn Manheim is the horrible one . " Joe the King " deserves a viewing because of the excellent direction of Frank Whalley .
Blonds have more fun	I stumbled unto this film by mere coincidence . I had no idea what to expect , not being acquainted with the director , or any of its excellent stars , although I've seen quite a few Brazilian films . Director Jose Enrique Fonseca works miracles with this movie and in the process gets amazing performances from all of his cast . This is a film where there is a lot of violence , but it also works as a moral tale . When all seems to be lost in the Brazilian society , we get a sort of paid avenger that will get rid of the bad element terrorizing the ' hood . This is the underlying theme of the film . Maiquel , as played by Murilo Benicio , is a cool cat with no apparent scruples . Deep down , he strongly believes he is doing the right thing in helping people get revenge with what the inept police doesn't even bother to do . Mr . Benicio gives a controlled performance with funny moments . His relationship with the pet pig he receives from a satisfied customer , gives comic relief from his otherwise well known underground activities . Claudia Abreu , a beautiful actress plays Cledir who eventually will marry Maiquel , the man she helped to give a " new blond look " . Also in the cast , Natalia Lage , another gorgeous young woman who reappears in Maiquel's life only to transform herself when she discovers religion and wants him to join in the evangelical movement , something he never does . Some people have compared this film to " City of God " , and frankly , there is no basis for the comparison . While the latter film showed the life in the poor favelas , the characters of this film are lower middle class people with a different set of values in life . They're not completely destitute , or as hopeless , as the poor young people of the other film . Mr . Fonseca , the director , shows great promise . We look forward to his next film .
Survivors	The Wiseman family , a Polish couple and their two children , have been living quietly in East London . The Wisemans are Holocaust survivors . Their working class neighborhood tolerated this Jewish family even though it's clear they don't like them . As the house next door to the Wisemans becomes empty , a new immigrant family arrives . The only trouble is they are Jamaicans and black , so the neighbors concentrate in the new arrivals and they even try to enlist Ruth Wiseman into their ranks in hating the Samuels family . At the center of the story is a sweet boy , David Wiseman , who loves cricket . He is a lousy player . Imagine young David's surprise when the next door neighbors put up a netting in their backyard so Dennis , the patriarch , can teach his young daughter , Judy , in how to play the sport . It doesn't take long for David to try to get on the Dennis ' good graces because he sees in him the man that can teach him how to be a good player . By sheer persistence , David becomes a good player and begins to gain acceptance among his peers in school as he makes the cricket team . At the same time , Ruth , who is much younger than her husband , sees also in Dennis a man that is completely different from her own husband . One thing lead to another , and it doesn't take long for Ruth to try to insinuate herself to Dennis , something that he discourages her from doing . David , who has made a good friend in Judy Samuels , has to choose between his newly found school friends and the girl next door on his birthday celebration . A few of the tough youths in the area decide to take a stand and scare the Samuels from leaving their neighborhood . One night David wakes up and watches in horror as his neighbors ' house begins to burn . He is instrumental in alerting the Samuels who are the victims of a hate crime just because the color of their skin . Paul Morrison , the writer and director of " Wondrous Oblivion " , shows a good understanding for the subject of his film . Mr . Morrison doesn't take sides , he just presents the story that feels real and a situation that could have been plausible . Where he has succeeded is in bringing to life characters that feel as though we might have known them . The director also captures that era in London . Delroy Lindo , a distinguished actor of stage and screen , makes a great impression with his Dennis . Equally sensational is Emily Woof , who as Ruth Wiseman , has the one of the best roles in the film . Ruth , who sees in Dennis all what her man isn't , is naturally attracted to the happy-go-lucky Dennis . Their scenes together at the dance hall and later when she tells him about loving him . Young Sam Smith , who plays David , contributes to enhance the film with his earnest take on the young boy . Leonie Elliott plays Judy Samuels and Stanley Townsend is seen as the elder Wiseman . " Wondrous Oblivion " shows an excellent director , Paul Morrison , who is one of the best new talent coming from England .
The " bite "	Juan Vargas , the hero of " La Ley de Herodes " learns quickly his role as mayor of the forgotten town where the ruling PRI party has chosen him to preside . The town and its people stand as a Mexican metaphor for what's wrong in the country , as a whole . At the beginning we watch as Juan is reluctant to follow the steps his predecessors took in governing the town , which stands as a microcosm of the way things have been done in Mexico . It speaks volumes that Mexico is one of the oldest ' democracies ' in Latin America , where corruption is rampant . On wonders if Mexico is the role model , what can be found in other Latin countries . Mind you , not everything is perfect in the good old USA ! It is to Luis Estrada's credit that he has been able to do this satire that pokes fun at politics , but at the same time , it makes one thing clear : watch what politicians will do once they take public office . Damian Alcazar is perfect as the goofy mayor Juan Vargas , who the bosses in the capital think he will be perfect for the job . Pedro Armendariz Jr . does wonders with his interpretation of a corrupt party higher-up . Delia Casanova as Rosa and Isela Vega as Dona Lupe , are excellent . This is a lesson in Mexican politics !
Coming to America	" The Beautiful Country " is a film that tries to capture one of the worst problems in the world today , illegal people smuggling into that promised land that for some is the United States . Director Hans Peter Moland has created a film with the feeling of a documentary that follows the hard journey of a man in search of a father he never knew . Beautifully photographed by Stuart Drybargh , and with a haunting musical score by Zbigniew Preisner , " The Beautiful Country " could well have been subtitled " His Worst Nightmare " . We are introduced to Binh , a tall young man living in Viet Nam after the end of the war . The time is 1990 and we are offered a glimpse of Binh's life where his relatives , as well as the rest of the Vietnamese don't like him because of his mixed race . His father was an American G . I . who married his mother , Mai , but Binh never gets to meet him because Steve , as the father is named , disappeared from Saigon , never to be found again . The film is Binh's odyssey to be reunited with the father he doesn't know . It's a horrific journey where Binh shows his own skills to endure the worst possible conditions to realize his dream of getting to meet a father he never knew . It's a homage to the surviving spirit of a man . Damien Nguyen is Binh , the young mixed race Vietnamese man . He does an outstanding job under Mr . Moland's direction . Nick Nolte , as Steve has some good moments . The supporting cast makes an excellent contribution to the movie . The film proves to what extent a determined man will go in order to get what he wants .
Living the American dream	George Eastman , the poor relation of a wealthy family , goes from rags to riches after meeting his rich uncle in Chicago , where he was working as a bellhop . George , with his dark good looks , starts working in his uncle's garment factory , but he has ambitions about how to be part of the wealthy family . We watch him as he goes from the packing area into a more important position . It's his ambition that proves to be his undoing . Theodore Dreiser , the great American writer , wrote " An American Tragedy " which was published in 1925 . The book was a social commentary on the country during those years . Mr . Dreiser was above all , a social reformer ; his book dealt with a reality that doesn't appear in the movie . By the way , the book was first adapted as a stage play by Patrick Kearney . When the time came to turn this classic for the screen , the task fell on Josef Von Sternberg to direct the film treatment in 1931 . The book finally got the interest of George Stevens , a Hollywood film director , who up to that point , didn't have great dramatic credentials behind him . Mr . Stevens was a cinematographer first , who later on took to directing . The screen play by Michael Wilson and Harry Brown was typical of the Hollywood of those years . There was so much that could be shown on the screen at the time without arousing the Hays Code people into action . " A Place in the Sun " was an ambitious project for the film makers . The casting of Montgomery Clift , one of the best actors of that era , proved to be a coup for Mr . Stevens and his team . The young Elizabeth Taylor , in one of her first dramatic roles , added sexual allure to the production , as it's clear the camera adored her as much as it loved Montgomery Clift . Both actors , made them a romantic couple that lured viewers to the theaters . Shelley Winters , was cast as the plain Alice Tripp , who is the pivotal figure in the novel , as well as in the film . George Eastman , is said to be modeled after Hamlet . It makes perfect sense , as he is an indecisive man whose loneliness , when he first arrives in the town , makes him crave to belong to the social circle of his uncle . When he starts working in the factory , George seeks Alice Tripp for his own pleasure without taking into consideration the terrible consequences of his actions . When Angela , the beautiful , rich , and sophisticated girl , appears , George figures he has to ditch Alice , who is a peasant girl , after all . This turn of events make George hate the loving Alice . Theodore Dreiser wanted to make a statement about George . How this young man was a victim of the materialistic society he wanted to belong to , as well as pointing to George as a monster that falls prey to his desire to belong to that same society that looked down on him when he first enters it . George learns his lesson too late and he can't escape his fate . " A Place in the Sun " , although superficial , still shows some aspects of the novel . The best thing in the film is Montgomery Clift playing George Eastman . He brought his own brand of intensity into the character and he is at his best in his scenes with Elizabeth Taylor . Shelley Winters did what she could with a role that had limitations . In supporting roles we see Raymond Burr , Keefe Brasselle , Fred Clark , Shepperd Strudwick , and Herbert Heyes , among others . The other interesting aspect of the film is the great music score by Franz Waxman that blends easily into the background . William Mellor's cinematography , especially the lake sequence , adds luster to the film . George Stevens was lucky in getting all this talent involved in the movie , and although it doesn't say much about what Theodore Dreiser intended to , as an entertainment , it has its merits .
The substitute	Kevin Reynolds , the director of " One Eighty Seven " , a film written by Scott Yagermann , supposedly a teacher himself , shows he is a man that clearly understands today's problems in the inner city schools . Some of the children , of mostly immigrant parents , are lured to join gangs in order to survive the hostile environment . These are the same children who could benefit from the free education in their new adopted country . Instead of making something out of themselves , they create their own problems and will end up doing menial work , or in jail because of the choices they make . This is the basic premise to this story , in which , a decent man and an excellent teacher , is stabbed at the beginning of the film , and not only is his body injured , but also his spirit . The relocation from Brooklyn to L . A . proves to be the wrong move . If Trevor Garfield thought he had it bad in New York , he is not prepared for a school system in California that seems to be a disgrace . This particular school , where Trevor is hired as a substitute teacher , has some of the most dangerous teen agers of the city . It appears that kids have the upper hand in whatever is going on because its principal is more interested in avoiding being sued by the students than in educating them . In fact , they rule the school . The worst thing that comes out in the film is how Cesar , a teen ager , who is a bully and a criminal , can't even read ! There are a few other aspects the film is trying to explore . Teachers who are corrupt , like is the case with Dave Childress , who admits to having had sex with one of the students . The young woman who is being helped by Mr . Garfield turns against him , only to redeem herself at the end , after it's too late for her to recognize a valuable lesson Trevor taught her . Samuel L . Jackson gives an intense performance portraying Trevor Garfield . Mr . Jackson shows in the film another dimension to his method of acting . He is never boring . John Heard is the corrupt Dave . Kelly Rowan is Ellen , a teacher who judges her fellow teacher and is repulsed by what she finds out . Clifton Collins is good as Cesar , the ignorant young man , a product of the gang mentality . Karina Arroyoave is seen as Rita . " One Eighty Seven " is an eye opener about why some students aren't learning in school and a tribute to the teachers that are trying to educate them in spite of the horrors in the classroom .
Dangerous liaison	What can a woman do when she finds out her husband is having an affair with her own sister ? Not much , according to this account , set in a small town in Belgium in the forties . Elisa is the model of a perfect wife who makes the discovery , but because of her circumstances , she can't do much in order to stop Gilles to see Victorine , her younger and beautiful sister . Elisa finds herself in a position to go along with her discovery , and not to confront Gilles , at the beginning . Seeking help , Eliza turns to her church , where she confesses what her husband is doing , only to be spoken down by the priest who seems to take the straying husband's part ! Then , afraid of losing Gilles , after she finds herself pregnant and not having any money of her own , she accepts Gilles ' status quo as a solution to her problems . In a surprise turn of events , Victorine finds a new suitor who appears to have means to support her in moderate comfort . Gilles is desperate because of his passion for the young woman and confesses his guilt to Elisa , who is so glad , thinking her problems are over . Just when everything seems to be getting back to normal we receive a shock watching Elisa's delayed outrage take shape . " La Femme de Gilles " is a small and intimate film directed with sure hand by Frederic Fonteyne , who also wrote the screen play . Mr . Fonteyne shows great promise because he clearly understands what his characters are thinking at all times . His narrative is simple , but yet , it leaves us with images that haunt us because the way he involved us in absorbing his film . Emmanuelle Devos , one of the best French actresses of her generation , gives a tour de force performance in the film . In fact , Ms . Devos is seen in basically all the frames of the movie . As Elisa , the actress gives her life and acts with such an intelligence that it's hard for the viewer to take his eyes away from this troubled woman who is a gentle soul that doesn't deserve what life has given her . She is a kind woman whose love for her twins and the infant son is easy to see . She is a loyal woman who feels betrayed by a husband that clearly doesn't appreciate her and who doesn't care about bringing shame to his household and to his in-law's . The other two excellent performances are by Clovis Cronillac , who as Gilles , shows a perfect take on this man that strays because of the lust he feels for Victorine . Laura Smet , the beautiful Victorine , is also right for the part . " La Femme de Gilles " is a film one recommend highly because of the work of Mr . Fonteyne and the exquisite Emmanuelle Devos .
Don't ask , don't tell	Eytan Fox , the talented Israeli director of the extraordinary film " Walk on Water " is a man who clearly has his feet well planted on the ground . His lyrical " Yossi and Jagger " proves he is man who can deal with a lot of controversial subjects in a realistic and convincing way . This brief film packs a lot for a 65 minutes feature , but in spite of its short length , what comes out of the story feels real and we don't begrudge the brevity in which it was presented . The story of Yossi and Jagger is presented without phony touches , that in the hands of another director , of worse yet , a Hollywood studio , would have been meaningless . This is the story about two men who happened to be in love and the consequences of something that goes terribly wrong that ends their involvement . The two central characters stay with the viewer for a long time , which says a lot about Mr . Fox and the way he has presented his tale about how fate intervenes in the lives of these young men . Ohad Knoller and Yehuda Levi give good performances as Yossi and Jagger . These actors make their characters work on the movie because of the intensity of their contribution to the film . Mr . Fox is to be congratulated for his inspired direction .
The Chevy Malibu	" Repo Man " was one of the films that came out in 1984 that , in a way , revolutionized film story telling , as we knew it . We are given a hint about what's coming right on the opening sequence when the Chevy Malibu , driven by the spooky Frank Parnell , is stopped on a highway . Alex Cox , the innovative director of " Repo Man " , made a film that mixes a lot of movie genres with a satisfying result . That's why when it was discovered , it became a huge cult movie . It was one of the films that had midnight screenings for its many fans that flocked to have a great time and who identified themselves with the movie . The best thing in the film is the interaction between Bud and Otto . Harry Dean Stanton has always play cool parts and this movie is no exception . Emilio Estevez gave , what might be , his best movie performance as the young punk that gets to meet a world he never knew existed . All the players gave their best to Mr . Cox and the result is a film that , in some ways , might baffle at first , but once the viewer gets into it , he will be hooked . Iggy Pop's music is an excellent partner for the action . Alex Cox is an innovative director , as he proves with " Repo Man " .
It's a small world ,	It's rare that a film by an independent filmmaker can pack such a lot in the way of human interaction . Jill Sprecher , inspired by a mugging she suffered , co-wrote the story in which her movie is based , with her sister Karen . Ms . Sprecher shows an insight that is rare in the young directors starting in the business today . If you haven't watched the film please stop reading . The basic idea for the movie seems to be how interconnected we human beings are . This premise is expanded as we watch how all of the characters we see in the film , in one way , or another , share a moment in their existence where they touch each other's lives without even being aware of the fact . Ms . Sprecher weaves a fine web , as she shows the different situations in the movie . Troy , the self-centered lawyer touches Gene's life when both are drinking , for different reasons , at the same bar . Gene is older and wiser ; at the time they meet Gene is feeling sorry for himself , having being " downsized " from his job . Troy , being in high spirits , after having won a case in court , looks down to Gene , a man who he perceives as a loser . Troy's own life will go through it's own turmoil after the involuntary accident where he injures a young woman in a deserted street . Instead of helping her , he flees the scene , leaving the girl to what could be a sure death . Gene is the center of the story in many ways . We see him as the man in charge of an insurance claims department . There is a man who works for Gene that is the epitome of good naturedness , a real kind person who is always bringing things for everyone in the office . When Gene is asked to reduce costs in his area , he fires Bowman , the man , who according to logic , must be let go first , being the last one hired . We wonder for a moment if this is just a way for Gene to get back at Bowman , because it appears this man irritates him and his coworkers . Bowman , who up to that moment has been so optimistic about things , immediately becomes a sad man . Walker , the university professor is unhappily married to Patricia . We watch both as their marriage comes to an end . Walker is carrying on an affair with another woman from work ; he ends up living alone in a small room . Not only does he lose his wife , but Helen too , the woman he was having the affair with . His life and Troy's meet , if only briefly when he buys the lawyer's car . Walker is in a way responsible for the death of one of his students who is not doing well in the Physics course . Then there is Bea , the young woman who cleans rich people's houses . Together with Dorrie , she fantasizes what it would be like to live in one of those fabulous places . Bea , who almost died when she was a child , is not bitter about her experience . She is a kind soul who is good to everybody , no matter who . Her life and Troy's become entwined in a second without realizing , or knowing him , as his car hits her in the desolate street where she is walking to the house of one of her employers to return the shirt she has just finished resewing for him . After going to her mother's home from the hospital , we see a gradual transformation in Bea . She's still a kind person , but now she has a different attitude toward life and the bad hand she was dealt . This film brought to mind Arthur Schnitzler's play " La Ronde " since the idea is basically the same . We humans tend to overlook the relation we have with one another , and how , in some ways , we touch the life of other people , the same way they touch ours . The acting is first rate . Ms . Sprecher ought to be congratulated in the way she is able to present her story and get outstanding acting by all the principals and even those in small roles . Alan Arkin , as Gene , is amazing . We see in his face how everything is affecting him at all times . John Turturro gives a complex reading of this university professor . Clea DuVall brings such a luminous aura to Bea , that it's impossible not to feel bad for what has been done to her ; she gives a subtle performance . Matthew McConaughey's depiction of Troy is good . There are a lot of minor roles by actors of the stature of Shawn Elliott , Frankie Faison , Tia Texada , Rob McElhenney , Barbara Sukowa , and William Wise , who is perfect as Bowman . Congratulations are in order to Jill Sprecher who shows a talent for directing real people in real situations . Judging by this effort , she has the potential of going far .
Mute , but not dumb !	This film based on a novel by Ethel Lisa White , gave the director , Robert Siomak the opportunity to bring together a brilliant cast . The suspense created in the movie speaks highly of the skills of this director . He had an eye for creating mystery in ways some other directors couldn't . At the center of the story is Helen , a maid in the Warren household . We watch her at the picture show in town when the film starts . There is a serial killer loose in the area . He only pries on single girls who have physical defects . We know that Helen is not immune to the threat this person represents since she can't talk , thus making her an easy prey for this animal . The cast is excellent . Dorothy McGuire is Helen , the innocent young woman at the center of the story . George Brent always plays convincingly . Ethel Barrymore only has a few good moments , but she makes the best of them . Kent Smith is the young doctor in town in love with Helen . Gordon Oliver is the playboy brother . Elsa Lanchester plays the tipsy cook with gusto . The thriller is spooky enough to keep us guessing who is the killer and why is he doing these horrible murders .
Short vision	" Compulsion " was one of the most important American films of the late 50s . Based loosely on the famous Leopold and Loeb case , the movie still packs quite an impact because of the excellent work by the three principals . As directed by Richard Fleischer , this is a disturbing look at two criminal minds who thought they were above and beyond the law because they had the perfect crime planned . The film was greatly adapted for the screen by Richard Murphy from the Meyer Levin book and stage play . Even for those clever enough to carry on a murder , there is always a possibility that a minor mistake will give the culprit away . The two young men at the center of the story , Judd Steiner and Artie Straus are homosexual lovers . At the time , being gay in America must have been one of the worst things in a more puritanical and pious society . These two men hide their sexual preference well because of the circles they both move . Coming from upper class families , in a way , made it easier for these men to formulate a plan to satisfy their idle existences . After committing a heinous crime , just because they thought they could get away with it , the two friends begin experiencing the guilt associated with what they have done . Judd's reaction is different from Artie's . Where Judd tries to lay low , Artie tries to help the police in a bold move that will end up badly . Judd suddenly feels abandoned by Artie when he realizes Artie might be getting too close to the people investigating the murder . As careful as these men had been , something that apparently seems innocent , ties them to the crime . The principal investigator , Sid Brooks , turns the men against one another by playing his cards right . This is the moment that Jonathan Wilk , the famous trial lawyer enters the picture . Unfortunately , even a star lawyer can't save people that have talked too much because they thought they were above the law . Star lawyers have always been at the center of all famous trials throughout the history . In a way , it's ironic that only one man , the great Jonathan Wilk is the only person in court to defend Steiner and Straus . Had it been today , these two men would have had a battery of expensive lawyers making the case for them . The figure of Wilke is based on the real lawyer of the Leopold and Loeb case : Clarence Darrow , a man larger than life . Dean Stockwell and Bradford Dillman made an invaluable contribution to the success of the film . Mr . Stockwell , a child actor that grew up in front of the camera , makes a compelling Judd Steiner . Mr . Stockwell gets under Steiner's skin because he seems to know what made this young man do what he did . Mr . Dillman was a relative new face to the movies , but his performance as Artie Straus has a profound effect on the viewer . Neither man makes a likable person , but maybe that was the message the author of the play wanted to leave the viewer with . Orson Welles made a splendid appearance as the defense lawyer , Jonathan Wilk . Mr . Welles ' physical presence dominates most of the court proceedings . In fact , is a tribute to his genius that he towers over everything around him whenever he is in front of the camera . E . G . Marshall has some good moments as Sid Brooks , the investigator who unearths the truth in this case . Ed Binns , Martin Milner , Robert Simon , Richard Anderson make contributions to the film . Diane Varsi , as the Ruth Evans is the only female that has an opportunity in the film . The film moves at a quick pace and will , no doubt , satisfy those viewers seeking intelligent entertainment .
North to Alaska with Buck	Wiliam Wellman is the director at the helm of this version of Jack London's immensely popular novel . As an adventure , this movie offers a lot of fun because of the enormous appeal of its star , Clark Gable . He is a man's man . Mr . Gable projected such an aura about himself that he carried from film to film , making him one of the favorites of all audiences . The gold rush is presented as it should have been for the people that went in search of riches in the inhospitable confines of Alaska . In this version , Loretta Young plays Claire Blake , the woman who conquered Jack Thornton's heart . The rumored affair between Ms . Young and Mr . Gable is fun to look at . What's real , and what not ? It's up to the stars to know and for us , the viewers , to guess . Ms . Young and Mr . Gable were appealing players , as they prove in this film . In other roles , Jack Oakie , Reginald Owen , Frank Conroy , and other old faces from films of the era make wonderful appearances . Above all , Buck , the great St . Bernard dog in the film is amazing . It's a joy to watch Mr . Gable's scenes with Buck as they compliment one another in that frigid background .
A rose by any other name . . .	William Wyler , one of the great directors of the American cinema , had the perfect team when he decided to make this film . Mr . Wyler was in a class by himself . He has given the movie going public pictures such as this one that will live forever , as new audiences discover them through cable and late shows on television . The film , a product of Hollywood in the 40s , has an underside that is done very subtly when it takes the cause for going to war into the noble and just cause that the American public believed it to be . Therefore , we are shown the valor , the idea of a better world and victory for the just , as a matter of course . Kay Miniver is a charming woman living in the country , not too far from London , where we see her go shopping . As the story unfolds , she is on her way back home . She is seated in the same carriage with the local aristocrat , Lady Beldon , who is a stereotype of that class . Mrs . Miniver doesn't have a mean bone in her body . She accepts with grace the proposal of the station master to have one of his roses named after her , and horror of horrors , he will compete head to head with Lady Beldon , who wins every year . The life of the Minivers will change dramatically as the oldest son , Vin is called into war action . He loves Carol Beldon , a young woman out of his social class . The war makes it possible for them to marry . Lady Beldon learns to accept people that are beneath her conservative way of life , something that would have seemed impossible in normal times . Of course , these are things that only happen in films . Alas , in the real world , the Minivers would probably had no chance in mingling in an aristocratic world where class mattered more than anything else . As Mrs . Miniver , Greer Garson brings her radiance to the screen . She had a way to make her presence be felt over the other actors when she appears . Walter Pidgeon plays the husband , Clem , but he has little to do otherwise . Lady May Whitty , is a delight as Lady Beldon , as is Teresa Wright , with her youth and beauty . Henry Travers , Richard Ney and Brenda Forbes also add their imprint to the film .
By the sea , by the sea , by the beautiful sea . . .	This film , shown on cable recently , was a discovery . In only 76 minutes , this delicious comedy packs much more than lengthier ones . This is a tribute to the man in charge of it , Allan Dawn , who combines the right elements to give us this fabulous trans Atlantic voyage . We are introduced to the main characters , Jeannette Foster and John Francis Dugan , traveling second class in a luxury liner . Dugan knows he can sneak into first class and takes Jeanette with him . John Dugan is a professional gambler that made his living out of these ships playing with the wealthy passengers . Jeanette is an actress returning home . We also meet an assortment of the passengers in the upper deck . Among them , an immature playboy , Fred Curtis , who has no luck gambling and is in debt to the mysterious and sophisticated Mrs . Bath , a rich woman who has stolen an expensive necklace from one a European royal just for the thrill of it . We also meet Col . Belcher and his friend and partner in gambling , Schmelling , a funny pair that will soon lose money to Dugan , who knows more about the game . The surprise comes from watching a splendid comedic turn by Claire Trevor , who we have seen in a lot of heavier roles . In this picture she clearly demonstrates she had a knack for playing a lighter fare . The movie also has an excellent performance from the great Edmund Lowe , an actor that was a pleasure to watch in everything he did . In the smaller roles , the great Eugene Palette makes a great impression as Col . Belcher , a rich oil man returning from Europe . Adrienne Ames , was also good as the sophisticated Mrs . Bath . She plays this woman with great panache . Tom Brown , as the young Fred Curtis , makes a good contribution to the film . The ensemble work that Allan Dawn got from all the major players , as well as the rest of the crew makes " Black Sheep " a delight to watch . The fantastic crossing of the Atlantic in the era of the luxury ships will enchant anyone looking for a carefree time at the movies .
Golden decade	In retrospect , the 1970s was a golden era for the American cinema , as demonstrated and explored by this documentary directed by Ted Demme and Richard LaGravenese . This IFC effort serves to illustrate and clarify the main idea of what that time meant for the careers of these illustrious people seen in the documentary . The amazing body of work that remains , is a legacy to all the people involved in the art of making movies in that period . The decade was marked by the end of the Viet Nam war and the turbulent finale of those years of Jimmy Carter's presidency . One thing comes out clear , films today don't measure against the movies that came out during that creative decade because the industry , as a whole , has changed dramatically . The big studios nowadays want to go to tame pictures that will be instant hits without any consideration to content , or integrity , as long as the bottom line shows millions of dollars in revenues . The other thing that emerges after hearing some of America's best creative minds speak , is the importance of the independent film spirit because it is about the only thing that afford its creators great moral and artistic rewards . This documentary is a must see for all movie fans .
Bright cameos	Stephen Fry's film version of the Evelyn Waugh's novel is at times bright and annoying , but even if it fails at some levels , it is a welcomed movie , in that it reveals so much of the craziness in the English society of the time . The young actors assembled for this film make it a joy to watch . We go from one party to another ; how much fun these " young creatures " had ! What comes as a shocking surprise is , that while a flamboyant Miles camps all over the place , no one seems to care about his being ever so " gay " . The shock comes when he is accused of being homosexual and has to abandon England . This was hypocrisy at its best ; while he was tolerated by the in crowd , he can't avoid the sticky laws of that era in a supposedly evolved and permissive society . Emily Mortimer and Stephen Campbell Moore are at the center of the story and both are welcome presences in what will be long film and theatre careers for both of them . Mr . Fry gets excellent acting from all his actors . There are brilliant cameos by Bill Paterson and Imelda Staunton ; they are amazing as Lord and Lady Brown . Peter O'Toole , as Colonel Blount , is also incredible as the man who loves to give his money away ! Jim Broadbent , as the drunk major , is perfectly goofy as a man in a cloud , not dealing with reality . Equally good in their short moments in front of the camera were John Mills , Richard E . Grant and Harriet Walker , among others .
Coriander and parsley	This film turned out to be a happy finding . The creators of this Mexican movie seemed well attuned to the modern way of life in the big city . Not having a clue as to what to expect , it turned out to be a good way to spend an evening in which all other film prospects didn't seem interesting enough . Susana and Carlos have been married for a while . They have two children and both work . Carlos , whose job involves long hours , hardly has time for his family . As the film starts , everything comes to a head when he arrives home late one night . No sooner is he in , when his cellular phone rings . It's his boss calling . Susana , who feels Carlos spends too much of his time at home talking to his boss , takes his phone away from him . As things get uglier , Carlos agrees to leave . It appears that as a couple , they have come to a dead end because Carlos believes his job is too important . Carlos , who has taken a small house , realizes he can't do anything on his own . Most of the work at home is done by Susana . Carlos is assigned a new assistant who evidently thinks she can take him to bed . Susana , on the other hand , is encouraged by her colleague at work to see other men . When she agrees to do so , it turns out that the man she has chosen is gay . Both Carlos and Susana come to realize , that in spite of their differences , they were meant for each other . Rafael Montero , the director of " Cilantro y Peregil " did a marvelous job with this quick paced comedy . The writing is by Cecilia Perez Grovas and Carolina Rivera , two women that have an ear for the way people live in these frantic times . Damian Bichir , who we had admired in other Mexican films , does an excellent job as Carlos , the harried executive whose life is altered when Susana asks him to leave their home . Arcelia Ramirez makes a wonderful Susana . She is a resourceful actress with a dark beauty that matches her character . Rodolfo Dehesa appears as a psychiatrist who speaks to the camera about modern relationships with humor and it shows he can't even help himself . Rafael Montero shows a talent for his direction of this sunny comedy .
Someone please , don't erase my memory !	The best excuse to see the film is the tour de force acting by Jim Carrey . He is paid millions to appear in other films that are supposed to be funny movies , but in reality , Mr . Carrey is at top of his craft when he plays against type , as is the case in this film . That Mr . Carrey is surrounded by some of the best actors working in films today , helps to make this movie a favorite for a lot of IMDB contributors , judging by the hundreds of comments submitted to this page . Kate Winslet , Mark Ruffalo , Kirsten Dunst , Tom Wilkinson , are very good and very effective in playing the people in the story . As far as the writing of Charlie Kaufman goes , he is never boring . To every new project Mr . Kaufman brings his own fresh ideas on how to present them on screen . He is very lucky to have found directors that are sensitive to his material and do the job well . To have Michael Gondry bring it all together , it's just happiness . The only point I would argue with Mr . Kaufman is the suppression of those painful memories at the center of the story . It is utopian at best . Would anyone be better off by having a bad love affair , or even a death of a loved one , erased from one's mind permanently ? I think not . I'd rather remember the good and the bad .
Sentimental journey	Agnes Varda , one of the best film directors from France , takes us on a nostalgic trip through the world of cinema . Ms . Varda pays homage to the Lumiere brothers , the inventors that revolutionized the art of making movies , as they keep appearing whenever Simon Cinema , the old character at the center of the film calls for them . The two men show up enveloped in lights , perhaps a tribute and a reference to their surname . The film concentrates on Simon Cinema and his memories . After all , he has been around for quite a while and has survived many movements and styles during his time as a creator . Simon lives in splendor in a chteau in the country , attended by his male servant , Firmin , and two maids . Simon decides to employ an assistant to help him sort out his memories . When he engages the lovely Camille , he gets an eager young woman who is in love with a young would be director . There are great moments in the film as when Simon is visited by Marcello Mastroianni . Both actors , now of a certain age , compare notes from their pictures . Simon Cinema accuses Fellini of copying his bathroom scene in Godadard's " Contempt " , in his own " 8 - " . Hanna Schygula and Jeanne Moreau arrive together to see the great man . Alain Delon comes in a helicopter , only to be turned away by Firmin , the servant , who only wants to tell the actor how much he admired him and have him sign his autograph album . There are other poignant vignettes , like the one involving Sandrine Bonnaire , who arrives at the estate dressed as the vagabond she played in Ms . Varda's own film . Then she changes into a noble woman and finally she transforms herself into Joan of Arc . Catherine Deneuve and Robert DeNiro have a good time together in a small vessel in the pond . Michel Picolli is excellent as the older man who is recalling the movies . Julie Gayet makes a luminous contribution as Camille . Henri Garcin , is the servant Firmin , a crazy combination of servant and personal assistant . Mathieu Demy , the director's son appears as the aspiring director , Mica . Ms . Varda created a light film about making movies . The material covers many years of film making , not only in France , but in America , and other places as well . It is indeed a sentimental journey that no cinema fan should miss .
Surviving a war , but losing the peace .	Susanne Bier's " Brothers " is a gripping account of the relationship between two brothers . Ms . Bier , a distinguished director , presents in this new venture a psychological study in the mind of one man who has been scarred by events beyond his control . The screen play by Ms . Bier and Andreas Thomas Jensen is one of the most powerful things that have come out from the Danish cinema . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . At the beginning of the movie , we are shown Michael who is picking up a prisoner from a jail . It turns out that the released man is none other than Jannik , his own brother . It's clear , at the outset , these two men are as different as oil and vinegar . They quarrel along the way and Jannik gets out and walks into a field to get away from his brother . Michael , a major in the army , is for all we see , happily married . He is preparing to go to Afghanistan with his unit . His pretty wife , Sarah , and his two young daughters are going to be left on their own , but everything seems to be under control . When Michael's helicopter is shot from the sky by enemy fire , he is reported as dead , something that affects Sarah deeply . Jannik , the distant brother in law , suddenly gravitates toward Sarah and her children . Sarah , in her grief over her loss , becomes closer to this man . Michael , on the other hand , hasn't died . We see him as he is taken to an enemy camp where he is seen sharing a cell with another Danish soldier . There's hardly any contact between captors and prisoners . The two men bond , but the other man is seen weakening because of he senses they will be killed . Death arrives , in a devastating sequence that has to be one of the most heart wrenching thing in a film in recent memory . As the camp is liberated , Michael is repatriated . Sarah knows something has happened to her husband , who never talks about the tragedy at the camp . What's more , one watches in horror as Michael begins to spiral out of control . His guilt finally explodes in a rage , even Jannik , can stop . Michael , in his state , suspects about his own wife's infidelity with his brother . He accuses her of betrayal , something his older daughter , Natalia , seems to be convinced happened between her mother and uncle . Michael , being so tormented , breaks down and begins trashing the house . Jannik comes to help and the brothers have an almost fatal confrontation . At the end we watch as Sarah visits Michael in jail and how he breaks down and tell her the horrible secret he has been hiding all along . Ulrich Thomsen is the best thing in the film ! Mr . Thomsen's performance is one of the most complex we have watched in a while . Mr . Thomsen makes Michael come alive in front of our eyes . Connie Nielsen , an actress that has worked extensively in the American cinema makes also quite an impression with her portrayal of Sarah , the wife that has to deal with the false death of her husband , only to find out he is alive . The other good performance is by Nikolaj Lil Kaas , who plays Jannik , the problem brother . All the supporting players make a contribution to the film . Ms . Bier shows she can hold her own against much more accomplished directors .
The sound of music	Imagine a great composer in his last days . Besides being an impossible genius , he is deaf ! There couldn't be anything worse for a man in Ludwig Van Beethoven's shoes . The music he gave to the world , could only be heard in his head , which was a punishment he certainly didn't bargain for . Anieszka Holland's " Copying Beethoven " is a dark film that tries to imitate the state of mind of the great composer during the last period of his life . The screen play , by Stephen Riveli and Christopher Wilkinson present an unique situation as the maestro's music publisher tries the daunting task to help the man as his 9th Symphony is to have its world premiere in Viena in 1824 . Enter Anna Holtz , a woman who studies music and has even tried her hand at composing . Her first meeting with " The Beast " , as Herr Schlemmer , the publisher , calls him , is a disaster . Beethoven has no other choice but to engage her , insisting she works out of his filthy quarters that has rats scurrying all over the place . Supposedly , Beethoven had two men that helped him with the transcriptions and other matters , but that wouldn't be cinematic . The whole thing was changed in order to allow a beautiful woman be the one that serves as the maestro's ears when it came to helping him conduct his last symphony to great critical acclaim . Ed Harris , an American actor , might have appeared to be the wrong choice for playing Beethoven , but he gives a good performance as the deaf man who sees beauty in his own music , but who can't even hear what it sounds like . Diane Kruger , who is a gorgeous woman , contrasts with the sloppy musical genius from the start . Ms . Kruger manages to get our attention to this woman who endured a lot in trying to help the man she admired . The film is dark . The film was shot in Hungary , which passes for Beethoven's Vienna . Ashley Rowe photographs the stark places where most of the action takes place to give it a realistic look . The 9th Symphony one hears in the background is by Bernard Haitink and the Concertgebow Orchestra , and it shows . Had one heard the small ensemble and chorus one sees in the film , the glorious music wouldn't have sound as robust as it does in the picture .
The Braddock family in the Great Depresion	Ron Howard's latest film " Cinderella Man " probably miscalculated its release date . Being a serious film about a real incident in a not too glamorous era , the movie arrives in the middle of the summer releases that seem to be made for action packed adventures or thrillers that don't require much of the viewer . That said , " Cinderella Man " presents a vivid portrait of one of the worst times in American history : The Great Depression . At the center of the story is James Bradock , a fighter that is seen at the beginning of the film with what appears an assured future . Then , the bad times that affected the country have a profound effect in the Braddock family . From living with a certain degree of comfort , they are relegated to eke out a living in order to survive . James Braddock's work in the New Jersey's piers becomes scarce , as only a few men are employed at a time . Early on , in a fight , Jimmy breaks a hand that puts him to a disadvantage among the men working at hauling cargo in and out of ships . Fortunately , Mike Wilson , a decent man , also impoverished by the situation , gives him a hand whenever they are teamed together . This will be a friendship that will last forever . At home , things go from bad to worse . Mae Braddock , the wife and mother of three children , tries to make do with whatever little she can lay her hands in . It's heart wrenching to watch her try to put food on the table , let alone something that might have any nourishment . Jimmy Braddock has to resort to get public assistance and even to beg from the people that congregate at a Madison Square Garden club . James Braddock's true friend turns out to be Joe Gould , who would guide him back to a phenomenal comeback that establishes him as one of the great fighters of the times . Jim Braddock goes to fight the powerful Max Baer , a man that has been notorious for killing a couple of opponents in the ring . The film is satisfying in spite of all the desolation and poverty one sees . Of course , it's evident we either never went through those bad times of the 30s , or have never been in Mr . Braddock's family position . In spite of all that is against them , the family made out well and even went to prosper , which says a lot for them . Above all , Mr . Braddock teaches us a lesson in how to keep his family united in spite of the rough times they were facing . As James Braddock , Russell Crowe makes a fabulous contribution . He transforms himself into the fighter that has to face poverty in order to appreciate what came afterward as a reward . Renee Zellwegger is fine as the suffering Mae . Paul Giamatti makes a tremendous appearance as Joe Gould . Paddy Considine plays Mike Wilson , the man who helped Braddock resume his work in the docks by carrying an extra weight when his friend was obviously in pain . The screen play by Cliff Hollinger and Akiva Goldsman takes an intelligent account of the era . Finally , Ron Howard scores a real winner with this film , that should be seen by more people because it presents a real portrait of a man that was genuine and loved his family .
Rear window	It's hard to imagine the life of a serial killer . If he is anyone like Earl Brooks , it probably would be humanly impossible to ever bring him to justice , since he , like most of the people in this type of business seem to be two steps ahead of the people trying to capture them . Earl Brooks , who is elected Oregon's Man of the Year , leads a double life . As if that was not enough , he has a conscience in the way of an alter ego who is seen with him all the time . Earl , who carefully plots his crime sprees , makes an inconceivable mistake in murdering an exhibitionist couple , who he surprises while making passionate love in a lighted bedroom with all the drapes open for all the neighbors to see . Little does he know his own notoriety will give him away . When a ' peeping tom ' who has photographed him at the victims ' apartment , comes calling , Mr . Brooks gets a bit rattled . After all , he has not made any tactical errors before . He knows he must deal with this Mr . Smith , as the voyeur calls himself , in an intelligent way : he offers to take him along to witness the next killing . At the same time , a police detective , Tracy Atwood , notices how the bedroom window where the couple was killed faces a building where she believes it's possible for anyone to have seen something . She zeroes in the peeping tom because when she asks him about if he saw anything , he is evasive . Tracy has a problem of her own with her ex-husband . She is in the middle of a messy divorce . Her divorcing spouse wants to hold out for some money . " Mr . Brooks " , co-written and directed by Bruce Evans , offers an interesting premise about a criminal who will get away with murder . The film is entertaining as it keeps the viewer involved in the action . Where the movie fails is in the logistics behind the story and in the police detective who is not credible from the beginning . What would a woman with a fortune of more than sixty million be doing working in such a risky job ? For that matter , would a serial killer be advised to attend an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting in order to get a solution for his killing problems , we don't think so . The film gives Kevin Costner a role that is tailor made for his style of acting . He is cool and detached ; his Earl Brooks doesn't show any emotion to speak of . In that , the director and his star have done well in creating the perfect atmosphere . William Hurt , or Marshall , the alter ego , compliments Mr . Costner's performance in creating a balance and a reason to counteract Mr . Brook's killing instinct . Demi Moore , unfortunately , is not up to do justice to her character . She appears to be tired all the time . She is not credible as a detective in pursue of the serial killer . Dane Cook , a comedian , is a welcome surprise . His Mr . Smith is one of the best things in the movie .
Twins	Preston Sturges was at the top of his craft when he directed this film . The wonderful cast he put together for " The Palm Beach Story " exceeds all expectations and made this a winning screwball comedy , typical of the times . Claudette Colbert and Joel McCrea made a fantastic couple . Both of the leading actors were excellent comedians ; they do amazing work together . The supporting cast is first rate . Mary Astor and Rudy Valee are excellent as the rich siblings falling in love with the estranged Jeffers . In minor roles , Sig Arno , Robert Dudley , and the rest of the cast perform wonders and respond to Mr . Sturges ' direction . The only things that don't work as well with the rest of the film are the prologue and the ending . The end seems to indicate that Preston Sturges was running out of ideas . The multiple weddings are a bit hard to accept as they don't seem real . The existence of a pair of twin siblings we knew nothing about while watching the film , appear to have been added out of desperation and thus make an ending to accommodate both rich Hackensackers . As a curiosity note , throughout the film Ms . Colbert is seen only on the right hand side of the screen because of her desire of being photographed from the left side only . This actress had the uncanny ability to change herself to that side of the screen without anyone realizing what she's doing . She might start with her whole face in front of the camera on the left hand side of the screen , but she always does something to change places with whoever is playing opposite her and wind up with her left profile for us to see . Still , this is one of the best films by Preston Sturges , perhaps a notch behind " Sullivan Travels " and " The Lady Eve " .
Return from the past	The prologue to " The Secret Loves of Martha Ivers " suggests a Gothic movie , with the spooky figure of Mrs . Ivers dominating the eerie household that Martha wants to flee ; then , the film changes to a noir with a fine plot . In fact , Lewis Milestone , the director , has mixed styles in the picture , but the end result makes a satisfying film to watch . The musical score of Miklos Rozsa contributes to create a good atmosphere to what we are watching , also greatly helped by the black and white cinematography by Victor Milner . Robert Rossen , a man who went to direct his own films , wrote the screenplay . We are given a story about an young woman who lives under the ironclad rule of a domineering aunt . Martha finds in Sam , a kindred spirit , who loves her . She wants to escape with him in order to get away from this tyrant . Things get complicated with Martha being nabbed from the train that is going to take her away and she is brought back to the hated house . The nasty storm blowing over Iversville cuts the electricity . Martha has a confrontation with her aunt , and things take an ironic twist . Mr . O'Neil , the tutor , makes sure he and his son will be well provided in exchange for their silence . The action changes after that . It's now eighteen years later . We see Sam as he is driving near Iversville and he suffers an accident because he is not looking . Coming back to Iversville brings back memories . He goes to the house where he lived and meets the sweet and mysterious Toni Marachek , who is leaving town . By this time , all in town are alerted to Sam's return and things begin to unravel . Walter O'Neil , the town's D . A . has married Martha . He has become an alcoholic . Martha has done wonders with the steelworks she inherited and is obviously a wealthy woman . She immediately figures with Walter that Sam's return has a different meaning ; he has come back to implicate them in the death of Mrs . Ivers , and they must deal with him . Both Martha and Walter are suffering the guilt associated with their naming an innocent man , who has been executed because of them . The film has a good resolution , as crime doesn't pay , or so , this is the clear message that comes across . Sam , at the end , is seen driving away from the town with Toni . Barbara Stanwyck makes a creation of Martha Ivers . This was a role tailor-made for her . She has a great time playing this woman , who doesn't know what she wants , whether to stay with the weakling Walter , or to try to get back to Sam . Van Heflin , as Sam is splendid . He had played opposite to Ms . Stanwyck and in this film , both do some interesting work , under the guidance of Mr . Milestone . Kirk Douglas was making his film debut and he made a splash with his take on the weak Walter O'Neil . Lizabeth Scott was also a revelation , who is totally convincing with her Toni Marachek . Judith Anderson has only a couple of scenes at the beginning of the movie , but she is effective as the domineering Mrs . Ivers . Although we had seen the film before , we still watch it whenever it shows on cable . Thanks to Lewis Milestone's direction the movie will live forever .
The clock tower	Any Orson Welles film is worth taking a look . It will surprise the viewer in many ways because of Mr Wells ' keen sense of cinematic eye . The only thing bad with this movie is the fact that Orson Welles didn't adapt it for the screen . As a result , it suffers in many logical aspects , but doesn't detract from the over all enjoyment of the movie . Mr . Welles ' legacy is a treasure for the movie loving public . He was indeed a man ahead of his time . " The Stranger " wasn't one of his best films , but it has its rewards in the great cinematography , the acting by the magnificent cast assembled for this picture . From the beginning we get to know who the real bad guy is . The story builds suspense as it goes along . The film is never boring and doesn't feel outdated at all . The last scenes at the clock tower are pure Welles . The interior of the clock tower scenes couldn't have been conceived by no other than Mr . Welles himself . The ending is amazing , to say the least . Loretta Young , as Mary , the young bride is perfect for the part . Edward G . Robinson plays the war criminal hunter , Mr . Wilson . He is always effective , no matter what film he is in . Mr . Welles , is very intense as Dr . Rankin . Even the minor roles played by Billy House , Richard Long and Martha Wentworth are perfectly conceived and acted . For fans of Orson Welles to enjoy .
Two Bettes for the price of one !	Bette Davis is at her best in " A Stolen Life " playing the most satisfactory characters in the decade of the forties . The mere idea of showing Ms . Davis on the same frame with herself must have presented a challenge for the director , Curtis Bernhardt . We can't think of any other actress that could have pulled this off with the elegance and the good instinct that Bette Davis brought to the project . The mere fact of playing two women so different from one another must have been what inspired Ms . Davis to take the dual role , which proved to be one of her most popular on the screen . The good Kate is sweet and unassuming , while Patricia , the identical twin sister , is vain , envious and shallow . In taking Bill away from Kate , Patricia doesn't change her way of life , something that pains Bill , as he has second thoughts about the mistake he made in marrying the wrong woman . The film will delight all Bette Davis fans because they will get two Bettes for the price of one . Ms . Davis ' trademark movements and those expressive eyes are seen throughout the film . Glenn Ford proved to be the right kind of leading man because he always projected an honesty and an integrity little seen in other actors of his generation . Both actors make the movie work in unexpected ways . The supporting cast is also interesting . Walter Brennan , Dane Clark , Charles Ruggles , and the rest are perfect in the background . The musical score by Max Steiner plays well with the action in the film . The excellent cinematography of Ernest Haller and Sol Polito adds another layer to the movie . Curtis Bernhardt directed with flair and made " A Stolen Life " a film in which to cherish for the great performances he got from Bette Davis and Glenn Ford .
Apartment for rent in private home in Staten Island	Raymond DeFelitta , the director of the current release , " The Thing About my Folks " , working with his own material , created this wonderful film , which should be seen more often . Unfortunately , when this film first came out , it had wonderful notices , but alas , it disappeared too soon for us to catch up with it . Thanks to HBO , the film was shown recently and it proved to be worthy of the praise we had heard about . The story takes place in the fifties . The characters at the center of the film , are basically Italian-Americans living in Staten Island . Buddy and Estelle Visalo , are the owners of a two family house in need of repairs . The upstairs apartment has been rented to an Irish couple , Mary and Jim , who are going through a rough moment in their lives . Buddy , with the help of his friends from the tavern that is the social meeting point of the neighborhood , is trying to evict the couple upstairs , after it's clear they are up to no good and can't pay the rent . It proves to be too late because Mary begins her labor pains and Estelle , who doesn't like the woman , helps in the delivery . But horror of horrors , the little baby proves to be much more than what Mary was expecting , and Jim abandons her . The Italian landlord develops a friendship toward Mary , who he succeeds in evicting , but feels terribly about it . He rescues her from the flea bag hotel where she is staying since her own sister doesn't want her . Buddy finds , and pays , for an apartment for Mary and her son . It's clear that Buddy and Mary go from a friendship into a relationship that will change their lives forever . The film works because the charismatic work of Michael Rispoli , who as Buddy , is a man with a heart of gold . Mr . Rispoli is an actor that is always good , no matter what character he plays . Also the movie has an inspired performance by Kelly MacDonald . Ms . MacDonald does good work as Mary . The supporting cast , Kartherine Narducci , Kevin Conway , Matt Servitto , Vincent Pastore , and the rest , are perfect . We look forward future endeavors by Raymond DeFelitta , who proves with this film he can tell a story that involves the viewer in more ways than some others . " Two Family House " is a small movie , with a big heart !
The blues	This is a concert film more than a documentary . Anthony Fuqua directed a show that has been recorded for posterity and for those of us , unfortunate enough , not present in the audience . The whole purpose of the concert seems to be to pay a tribute to all the great musicians that have made the blues a musical genre that is unique . This is music derived from the pain of whoever is experiencing it , who obviously is going through a rough patch in life . Some of the best interpreters of this type of music are seen on stage . Most of the old timers that performed have had distinguished careers and are still around to delight us , their fans with their renditions on these , mostly , sad songs in a way that gives us the viewers pleasure by watching them . The best way to appreciate this film is to let it surround you and enjoy a couple of hours in excellent company .
English thespians	This movie has the blessing of the flawless direction of Richard Eyre , who knows a lot about kings and queens . The screen play is adapted by the author of the play , Jeffrey Hatcher . Surprisingly , these two men have been able to create a film that is not only visually satisfying , but it also is an adult entertainment . This movie gives us a glimpse of how theatre functioned in England up to the times of Charles II . The female roles of all plays were portrayed by male actors . The school of acting in that era was an artificial one where actors relied in gestures and affectations that would be laughable today in a serious drama , but that was the way it was the accepted Method then , nothing to do with Stanivslaski , or Strassberg . The leading figure of that theatrical world was Ned Keynaston , who was the most famous Desdemona of his time . There must have been a lot of gay men that were attracted to that world , as was the case with Mr . Keynaston , who might have been bisexual , although that comes as a secondary subplot . This actor is greatly admired by all , including the dressing assistant , Maria . This girl loved to be in the theatre , but could not , because only men were allowed . So instead , she goes to a second rate company that puts on plays in a pub and emerges as Margaret Hughes , an actress in her own right who will challenge Keynaston's Desdemona and makes that role , her signature role as well . Claire Danes , as Maria , or Margaret Hughes , has never been better ! She shines as the girl whose ambition is to be on stage . She is wonderful in the part . Ned , played with gusto by Billy Crudup , shows an unexpected range , although he has done theatre extensively . Both of these actors takes us back to London and make us believe that what we are watching . A glorious English cast behind the two American principals are gathered to play effortlessly the theatrical figures of the time , and also the King and his court . Ruper Everett , as King Charles II , is hilarious . The scene in which he plays in drag with his mistress , Nell Gwynn , is one of the best things of the movie . Also , Richard Griffith , as lecherous Sir Charles Sedley , gives a stellar performance . Ben Chaplin , as the Duke of Buckingham , reveals the ambiguity of the men that were attracted to those early thespians . Thoroughly enjoyable because of Richard Eyre's direction and eye for detail .
The legionnaire	Claire Denis ' loose adaptation of Herman Melville's " Billy Budd " , changes the story from taking place on the ocean to the African country of Djibouti , an impoverished nation with an outpost for training of the French Foreign Legion . Ms . Denis , who spent part of her life in Africa , sees the similarities of both stories and together with her co-writer Jean-Pol Fargeau , set to show us how the Melville novel impressed her . The group of legionnaires , we meet , are seen in different stages of their training . The men , who come from different walks of life , and countries , have nothing to do . The only entertainment for them is dancing with the local women in bars . Galoup , the second in command , of this outpost , is the narrator of the story . We realize he is telling the story from a civilian point of view since he is no longer a legionnaire . The man in charge , Galoup , is a strange person . He starts noticing how one of his men , the mysterious Sentain , does everything he is assigned to do , and more . When a helicopter crashes and Sentain risks his life in order to save a pilot , the troop commander , Bruno Forrester , suddenly sees in Sentain an courageous man . Forrester also observes how Galoup reacts to Sentain's sudden recognition . It's the commander who tells Galoup that backstabbing doesn't fit in the Foreign Legion , but it's already too late . Galoup , who is consumed in his dislike for Sentain , takes his subordinate into the desert as a punishment , which unknown to him will backfire on him . Claire Denis has amassed an interesting cast to give life to her vision . Agnes Godard , the cinematographer has shot the film showing us great vistas of Djibouti and the Golf of Aden . The film has the feeling of a ballet as one watches the men's shadows on the ground as they meditate after a grueling training session . Even though there is no clear indication Galoup is gay , but the way he watches Sentain leaves the viewer to think otherwise . The way Galoup touches Forrestier's bracelet is another indication of what is really troubling Galoup , in spite of the fact he is seeing one of the local women . Denis Lavant , an intense actor , plays Galoup with such control , yet it's clear to see what's eating him . Gregoire Colin , another actor with a great range , hardly utters a word throughout the film , yet , he comes across loud and clear in knowing what his superior is doing to him and being a better man for taking the abuse . Michel Subor is the troop's commander , a man into himself , but wise enough to detect all what's happening to the young people under his command . Clair Denis created an exquisite work of art . Ms Denis is a director that always delivers . The film solidifies her as one of the best women making movies in France , and all over the world , for that matter .
Moonshine	" Thunder Road " was a movie that was discarded by the studio after it made its commercial debut . In fact , this was a project that was made because of the interest of its star , Robert Mitchum , who was instrumental in bringing his story to the screen . The movie deserves better only because of the great performance by Robert Mitchum , one of the coolest actors of all times . The story , directed by Arthur Ripley , presents us with a situation that was deemed a problem back at the time when the movie was made , but wouldn't raise an eyelash now . The illegal production of " moonshine " by the poor farmers of rural Tennessee was persecuted vigorously because obviously it was a money making enterprise and the government wasn't getting a cut , in the way of taxes . Lucas Doolin is a Korean War veteran who comes home to find no job awaiting him . The only thing he and his family know about , as well as the other people in that area , was to make the prohibited liquor . The transportation presented a headache once the feds were involved . Luke is in love with a singer from town , Francine , while a young neighbor , a girl-next-door type , Roxanne , secretly loves him with no response from him . Into this mixture comes Carl Kogan , the man who wants to apprehend Luke as well as whoever is behind the production of the illegal liquor . Robert Mitchum makes a wonderful Luke . In fact , our sympathy is with him instead as with the lawmen trying to get him . Gene Barry is seen as Carl Kogan . Keely Smith , the singer , makes a great contribution with her Francine , and even though she only has a few scenes in the movie , she makes a mark in it . Sandran Knight is Roxanne and James Mitchum , the star's own son does a good job with Robin . The film is a must see for Mr . Mitchum in a film that is seldom shown .
Vicky and Cristina in Barcelona	Something has happened to Woody Allen when he decided to abandon Manhattan , the setting of most of his films , for Europe . It seems Mr . Allen has found a new way to leave behind his angst in exchange for a new , somewhat less restrained sexual atmosphere in which to set his movies . This , of course , is a welcome relief . After all , Mr . Allen was getting in a rut with his last cinematic ventures . Every year thousands of young American college students invade Europe , either in exchange programs , or just enrolled in foreign language studies , or just vacationing in the Continent . Most of these kids come from conservative , and in many ways , puritanical backgrounds , probably having no sexual experience to speak of . Vicky and Cristina , two of those students , are seen in Barcelona where they undergo a somewhat sentimental education in a different milieu . While Vicky is less adventurous than her friend Cristina , both will be transformed by the meeting of the hunky Juan Antonio and his estranged wife , Maria Elena . Juan Antonio offers them sex , and even proposes to do it with both of them at the same time . Vicky , a more prudish girl , can't go along , but Cristina , the more adventuresome , doesn't even bat an eyelash when she gets together with him and the former wife , who is game for entering in a sexual triangle . This time though , the principal male figure , Juan Antonio , is an aggressive man , in contrast with other characters that have served Mr . Allen well in his American movies . Javier Bardem proves he can excel when he is guided with a sure hand , as is the case here . Penelope Cruz fares better than in most of her Hollywood previous work in a role that gives her an edge over the more passive parts she has played before . This is not to say there has not been sex involved in Mr . Allen's previous films . In showing a new freedom in how to present it on the screen , he has shied away from all the neurotic men and women that have been at the center of his work . This is a welcome development in a man who has decided to reinvent himself by getting away from his usual playing ground .
A brilliant black comedy	Not having seen this film , or even remembering if it ever played locally , it was with amazement we stumbled into this brilliant comedy directed by Peter Chelsom . The screen play is by Mr . Chelsom and Peter Fannery . The opening scenes are disorienting because we aren't prepared for what will follow in any way , but in retrospect , it makes sense because it ties in with the story in ways that a casual viewer might overlook . The biggest thing going for this film is the wonderful Lee Evans who gives a performance bigger than life and ends up stealing the film and making it his own . This young actor deserves to be seen in other films because he shows a charisma and a talent unmatched by other , more experienced actors . The other surprise was Jerry Lewis . Not being a fan of Mr . Lewis , he gives a retrained performance , much better than in some of his comedies . Leslie Caron is also excellent , although she is not seen but in a few pivotal scenes . Her Cleopatra dance shows her in great physical form . Oliver Platt , as Tommy , wins our sympathy because he bombs as a comedian in front of a Las Vegas audience . The real stars of the film are George Carl and Freddie Davies , genuine comedians , doing what they do best . Their routines show us a team of the most talented people in the business . Blackpool , the English seaside resort comes alive as it shows why it's the mecca for popular entertainment .
Drug Trafficking	Billy Hayes is a dumb American man trying to make a fast buck , thinking he can get away with murder . How could anyone take the chance of smuggling the drugs taped around his belly ? How stupid could this guy be , acting in such an uncool way , as he appears so nervous going through passport control ? He was a dead give away , as we see him perspiring profusely in front of the local authorities . It's unfortunate that some people see Billy Hayes as a hero , when he is nothing but a misguided young man trying to capitalize on what he thought was the perfect scheme . What happens to Billy Hayes is chronicled by English film maker Alan Parker . He , and his screen writer take the main idea of the book and change it to give us a horror story , and in the process , he makes the fatal mistake in thinking that by giving the viewer a glance about what Billy has to endure in prison doesn't fit the crime he committed . Mr . Parker and his main collaborator , Oliver Stone , have created a film that has the tone of a documentary ; the emphasis is on the cruelty experienced in prison . Actually , the director and the screen play , place the blame in the Turkish prison system , but actually , they succeed in making a hero of this idiotic man . Hayes was a coward and an opportunist who believed he would be able to get away with his crime without being made accountable for it , as he would get a profit from the sale of the drug . Mr . Hayes never took into account what he was doing or that the drug he was smuggling would do to other people . He deserved much more time in prison , or if he was going to deal in drugs , he would have been better off doing it in his own country , where maybe , with the help of a power attorney , he wouldn't even have served time for his crime . While the film makes thrilling film making , it's not realistic at all . Look at how the inmates live within prison . Compared to other countries , life in that prison was not so bad ! The prisoners can get food from outside , pay their way for basic necessities ; it was almost like living in a flea bag hotel in a foreign country . Brad Davis makes a puzzling Billy . At times , he is up to the task , but at others he is not convincing , in my humble opinion . The multi national cast is excellent . Much of what goes in prison is depicted in full detail . Perhaps " Midnight Express " made a better impression when it came out than right now . It's still worth a look at it and to watch it as a thriller , but nothing to do with reality .
You're too marvelous , too marvelous for words . . . .	" Dark Passage " offers a different take on the San Francisco noir genre . This is a movie in which we get to know about the story that unfolds in front of us told in narrative style by the hero , who is never seen until about one hour into the picture . Delmer Daves , adapting the David Goodis novel has created something seldom seen in this type of films , in which , the hero's presence is required at all times . The film has a great style , as it offers a view of the San Francisco of the 1940s in ways that hadn't been seen before . The director was lucky to be able to open up the book in excellent ways to keep the viewer hooked from the start . The ' moderne ' style of that era is seen in glorious detail , especially Irene's apartment , where much of the action takes place . The effect of the glassed enclosed elevator makes a dramatic contribution to the look of this movie . The story of an innocent man , falsely condemned to prison for killing his own wife , parallels other movies . What's unusual here is that the presence of this convict is seen in another light with his own slant in to what really happened to the dead woman . There are other elements in the film that make it appealing . as the relationship between the escaped man , Vincent Parry , and the woman who rescues him , Irene Jansen . Sidney Hickox's stylish cinematography is one of the best assets of the film . The crisp images that one sees of the city , or the surrounding areas , add to the enjoyment of watching the mystery unfold . The mood is set by the swing music of the time as Frank Waxman's score is heard . Richard Whiting contributes the great song one hears in the background . The film is dominated by Humphrey Bogart , which says a lot about his power as an actor , and as a personality . When one considers he is actually not seen completely until after an hour into the movie , it speaks volumes of how the actor and the director were able to pull it through . The Irene Jansen of Lauren Bacall is another of the things that work in the film . Ms . Bacall's radiant beauty dominates every scene she is in . This actress had such a style that no matter what she is doing , she pulls our attention to her . The camera loved Ms . Bacall . The other best thing going for the film is the strong performances Mr . Daves has obtained from his cast . Agnes Moorehead makes a phenomenal appearance as the evil Madge Rapf . Her last scene with Mr . Bogart stands as one of the best moments in a film noir of the era . Ms . Moorehead's expressions as she is confronted with the facts , keep on changing as she absorbs everything being thrown at her . Clifton Young who plays Baker , the opportunistic would be criminal , is also effective , as he adds a layer of intrigue with an angle we didn't figure out existed . His fight with Parry at the bottom of the Golden Gate bridge is beautifully choreographed . Finally , the kind cab driver Sam , who helps Parry assume a new identity , as played by Tom D'Andrea is one of the highlights of the film , as well as the plastic surgeon , portrayed by Houseley Stevenson . This film , while not perfect , shows how well Delmer Dave's gamble paid in his conception for the film .
Despair	Imagine the plight of Steve , a good man , who gets tangled in a web of intrigue ; he is suspected of having killed a policeman during a robbery gone bad . This young man has been hired by the criminals to drive his truck without knowing what he was getting into . Steve , who has been married for a short time to the beautiful Anne , has no choice but to hide , not only from the law , but also from the real bandits who pointed him out to the cops as the one responsible for the crime . Walter Radak , the head of the gang , blames Steve for botching the heist , where his younger brother was caught by the police and soon will die . Everything is against Steve . When he tries to buy a used car , he is cheated by the unscrupulous owner of the lot . He is a good man who can't get anyone to believe in him . Finally , Steve and Anne find a quiet life with her relatives in a secluded farm , where he reasons , is too far from where Radak and his men will look for him . Steve finds the kind detective Ferrari who believes in him and wants to use him to get to the real bad guys . Anthony Mann staged this film with an eye to detail . The magnificent fight scene where the naked light bulb goes over all of the gang , illuminating their faces as it keeps swinging above their heads , has to be one of the best effects in the film . The last sequence in the staircase of Steve's apartment house was another touch by Mr . Mann to take the viewer to witness the action . Steve Brodie is the man being pursued until the end by Radak and his gang . Raymond Burr's Walter Radak points out to the range of this actor , who made a lot of films as the heavy , as he does in this film . Audrey Long plays Anne , Steve's wife . Jason Robards Sr . has a couple of effective scenes as the Lt . Ferrari , the man who knows about Steve's innocence . Mr . Mann was lucky in working with George Diskant as his cinematographer . The camera placings and shooting angles both men created in this film is what made the film noir genre so immensely appealing to audiences .
The mental institution	The group of teen agers that are staying in an institution for troubled youths , come from all kinds of backgrounds and problems . All of them are the byproducts of a society in which parents have failed these kids in one way or another . Each one of the kids in the story could have never landed in this private mental facility with the kind of positive nurturing that responsible parents give their children . It is indeed a motley crew we meet . When we first see Lyle , he is seen in an incident where he beats another teen with a bat and almost kills him . Tracy has been raped and screams at night . Kenny , the sensitive boy , sharing a room with Lyle , has been molested by his step-father . Michael , the rap fan , thinks and acts as though he was black . Chad , who soon will be leaving the place is a boy that should not be released to the outside world . We get to hear all their stories as the well intentioned Dr . Monroe guide them thorough sessions of group therapies . They all bring their own baggage to the encounters and don't open up in the way the therapist would like them to , yet , it's clear these sessions have a profound effect on all of them . The film , which was shown on cable recently , deserves an audience as its director , Jordan Melamed shows an affinity for the material written for the movie by Michael Bacall , who also plays Chad , and Blayne Weaver . The director and the cinematographer , Nick Hay , captured nuanced performances by everyone in the cast . The film utilizes the close up technique to emphasize all the emotions running at any given moment among the inmates . Don Cheadle , a magnificent actor , plays Dr . Monroe with conviction . Mr . Cheadle deserves credit for always making the best of all his characters he has played , as he brings a dignity and vulnerability to his roles . Joseph Gordon Levitt is also another reason for watching the film . His Lyle is a study in contrasts . Zooey Deschanel makes a good impression with her Tracy . Michael Bacall is intense as Chad . Elden Henson , always a good addition to any films makes Michael , a bully , work . Cody Lightning is also good as the taciturn Kenny . This is a film posing some serious issues and makes the viewer think . It also shows a good director at work , Jordan Melamed , who will go to bigger and better things , no doubt .
The aftermath	" Home Room " came as a total surprise . Not having a clue as to what it was all about , it paid off big time because it doesn't hold any punches and what we see is how lives are changed by the act of a disgruntled young man who decided to victimize his class mates , who are the innocent victims of his rash actions . Paul Ryan , the director , who is working and editing his own material , is a talented man who is rewarded by some amazing acting all around by his cast . Alicia Browning is an older girl who is trying to graduate high school . She has been away a couple of years and doesn't seem to be in the same wave length of the other students . For one , she is a rebel with a punk look , lots of makeup and a mouth that will cut anyone who dares to come near her orbit . Alicia was among the students in the home room where nine students have died , supposedly killed by her boyfriend . Alicia , we realize , is a wounded girl who has gone through a terrible ordeal in her life , but we are not given any clues to that effect . What follows is the aftermath of the tragedy , as it concentrates on a young woman who has survived it . Deanna Cartwright is a wealthy teen ager who shouldn't have been at the school , at all . When a ricochet bullet hit her , she is hospitalized with more than a wound . She is trying to get over this dark period in her mind but the nightmares don't let her forget . Alicia is made to go to the hospital by the school principal . Since she doesn't cooperate with the police , the head of the school wants her to see Deanna in her terrible state and perhaps she will soften up and will tell the authorities what she knows . Alicia dislikes Deanna , but in a matter of days , both girls will make peace . We don't realize until the last sequence what really happened that horrible day in school . Busy Phillips makes an excellent Alicia and Erika Christiansen is equally good as Deanna . Victor Garber , James Pinkins , Taylor Holland , and the rest of the cast play as an ensemble . The film has an intensity because it's not explicit in showing how the shootings occurred , which helps the tone that Mr . Ryan wanted to give this movie .
Plays in the attic	George Stevens , a director who would go to make a name for himself in Hollywood , learned his craft doing these short films which Hal Roach produced for MGM . This series , part of a series with the same teen characters was popular in the 1930s . This delightful film is worth a look because of the presence of Mickey Daniels , a goofy character in the series . As the movie opens , Mickey learns his sister and her friends are going to rehearse a play . He wants no part of it , so he decides to go fishing . Mickey changes his mind halfway to where he is going and returns to the house and finds no one home , but when he goes upstairs he hears a strange dialog that involves a neighboring toddler . Mickey decides to put the young boy in a truck that is making deliveries of cakes and pies to secure him from what he hears is going to happen to him . When the truck goes away with the boy , Mickey follows in pursuit ending with the happy reunion of the mother and a pie in the face for the delivery man , who is blamed for taking him . Lots of laughs from a 20 minute short film that delivers . The great deadpan of Mickey Daniels makes this movie highly enjoyable .
No wet look for me , please !	This film works because its theme is universal . Watching it , you can't say you're watching a black movie because had the situation been all white , the same experience would have taken place . The barbershop is a refuge for many people of this Chicago neighborhood where they go not only to get a trim , a shave , or a manicure , but also to discuss what's important in their lives . Director Tim Story deserves credit for bringing all these different types and styles together with a sure hand . This film belongs to Ice Cube , who is a revelation . One can see director Story behind him . Also , Cedric the Entertainer , is particularly effective in his role as the old timer who has seen it all . No one can go wrong by stepping inside this barbershop .
The court of Versailles	The tragic figure of Marie Antoinette , an Austrian princess who married Louis XVI of France , has been the subject of many books and two films . This 1938 version was the brain child of Irving Thalberg , a man who was well connected in Hollywood . This project which took a while to go into production , was a vehicle for his wife , the reigning queen of MGM , Norma Shearer . Marie Antoinette was the daughter of Maria Theresa , the empress of Austria , a woman who understood the role of power . The empress married her daughters in what she believed would be advantageous as she forged strategic alliances with other royal houses in Europe . Her daughter Marie Antoinette , like some of her sisters , married men that were not compatible with them , as proved by her union with the inept Louis XVI , a man that was childish and inefficient . A few years after the marriage both Louis and Marie Antoinette would be taken care by the popular justice of the French Revolution . Before her horrible end , Marie Antoinette was the object of envy and disdain by the sophisticates of the French courtiers who saw in her a naive girl . Marie Antoinette became the object of gossip . Her attraction for Count Axel DeFersen was natural since she had no love for her own husband . Her notorious rivalry with her father in law's mistress , the calculating Madame DuBarry , didn't help things either . In spite of all that she found a kindred soul in the Duc D'Orleans , who saw in her a girl lost among the wolves of Versailles . Norma Shearer , who returned to MGM after her husband's death , made a good impression as Marie Antoinette . Her take on the doomed queen seemed to be what was expected of her . Tyrone Power , as Count Axel projects his handsome presence ; it's clear to see what the tragic queen saw in him . Robert Morley , who plays Louis XVI made quite an excellent contribution to the film . John Barrymore as Louis XV , is a welcome presence . Joseph Schildkraut appears as the Duc D'Orleans , and Gladys George plays Mme . DuBarry . Others in the talented cast include Henry Stephenson , Alma Kruger , Albert Dekker , and many others that were uncredited for their efforts . The production owes big to Cedric Gibbons , the art director . His interiors of Versailles are stunning . For a black and white film , Mr . Gibbons ' interiors look and feel like the real thing . The cinematography of William Daniels , a man with a great eye for what worked in the cinema , captures the action in his unrivaled style . The background music of Gluck plays well with what one sees . Donald Ogden Stewart's screen play does justice to his subject . W . S . Van Dyke directed with an eye for the spectacle he delivers in this picture .
This ole house is haunted	Joseph L . Mankiewicz was the right choice for directing this film . He created a film that survived the passage of time . The R . A . Dick's novel was adapted by Philip Dunne . " The Ghost and Mrs . Muir " is blessed with one of Bernard Herrmann's best film scores . The music greatly enhances what one is watching on the screen . Charles Lang's cinematography gives the illusion we are somewhere on a remote spot of England , when in reality the film was shot in California ! " The Ghost and Mrs . Muir " gave its star , Gene Tierney , one of the best roles of her career , after " Laura " . Ms . Tierney had the fragility to portray Lucy Muir , the plucky young widow that decides to move to the coast against her in-laws wishes . The idea of the film plays well as it unfolds because obviously , it's all in Mrs . Muir's mind all what she is experiencing . Rex Harrison's Capt . Daniel Gregg was also one of his best opportunities as a leading man in the movies . Mr . Harrison is perfect as the crusty old seaman that refuses to abandon his beloved home overlooking a beautiful view of the sea . Mr . Harrison plays well opposite Ms . Tierney ; their chemistry works well because it combines his rugged good looks and her beauty . The supporting players are good under Mr . Mankiewicz ' direction . George Sanders , Edna Best , Natalie Wood , Robert Coote , Vanessa Brown , all give good performances and enhance the film . This film will always be a favorite for fans , young and old .
Prejudice in America circa 1940s	Having known a talented woman who couldn't make it into any of the big companies she applied for just around the time where " Gentleman's Agreement " takes place , resonated with this viewer , as the reason for watching it . Never having read the Laura Z . Hobson's novel , we can't opine whether this adaptation by Moss Hart and Elia Kazan is true to the book . Arthur Miller , a distinguished writer , dealt more or less with the same problem in his novel " Focus " , which was made into a film a few years ago . As directed by Elia Kazan , this film will probably look dated , as most of the insidious prejudice in the American society seems to have vanished . " Gentleman's Agreement " , as has been pointed by other contributors to IMDb , seems preachy dealing with the subject matter : anti-Semitism . Phil Green , the man at the center of the story , seems to be a decent individual . He is hired by a New York magazine to write an expose about anti-Semitism in the society of that era . In order to get down to the root of the evil he was to cover , Phil makes himself pass as a Jew , a fact that is revealed to all the editors of the magazine , who turn a cool shoulder to him . The only one that became friendly is the fashion editor , Anne Dettrey , who seems to be the only one with an open mind in the whole place . Although the prejudice toward Green is not blatant , it's ironic that he would encounter more opposition to his passing for a Jew , from unexpected sources . The well intentioned Kathy Lacey , the niece of his boss , shows she is a decent woman . However , she is not one to speak up about what she feels in her heart is wrong . Also , Green's secretary , Elaine Wales , proves to be an insensitive Jewish woman who has assumed a new personality in order to get employment in the magazine . Gregory Peck makes a good appearance as Phil Green . This actor was a solid performer when he got decent direction , as the one he got from Mr . Kazan in the movie . Mr . Peck is an imposing sight as the man that wants to expose the narrow mindedness of prejudice by impersonating to be Jewish himself . Dorothy McGuire , as Kathy doesn't come out as well . In fact , at times , she proves to be an irritating woman because she wants to be upright , but in fact , she is a coward who never stands up to speak when she hears jokes , or comments disparaging Jews . Celeste Holm makes a better impression as the woman who befriends Green and stays by him no matter what is going on around the office . June Havoc , as Elaine Wales , the secretary , made the best out of the limitations of her character . John Garfield is seen as the childhood friend Dave Goldman , who can't imagine why his friend Phil is doing what he is doing , but stays by him . Anne Revere , plays Mrs . Green , the understanding mother . This is a curious film that made history at the time it came out because what it decided to tackle .
What is a ghost ?	Carlos , the young orphan , asks from Dr . Casares the question at the beginning of this haunting tale set in the dark days of the Spanish Civil War . Curiously enough , the Civil War captivates like this " ghost " , present day Spanish filmmakers . The young boy doesn't have to go far to encounter the vision that everyone knows lurks in the dark , or is it in the minds of all of the people involved in the death of Santi , the young boy who was in the wrong place , at the wrong time . Everyone within the orphanage knows about the tragedy of Santi but there is a conspiracy behind the tragedy and it's Carlos who discovers the mystery . For a director working out of his element , such as Guillermo del Toro is , the film he gives us his concept of evil behind a place that should have been a refuge for all the young children that lost parents in the conflict . The story is absorbing , keeping us interested in what appears to be a ghost tale , but isn't . The director gets good performances from the children as an emsenble and even the grown ups are very good , notably the great Federico Luppi who has worked with del Toro before . The only thing puzzling us is why does it have to be clarified his character is from Argentina when his presence in that remote area , surrounded by the war , would attract the attention he's probably trying to avoid . Marisa Paredes and Eduardo Noriega and the rest are well cast .
Boeing Boeing	" Airport " , which was recently shown on cable , was a popular film when it was released . Arthur Hailey , whose novel is the basis for this movie , adapted his own material with the director . " Airport " is a fine example of the ' disaster ' film genre that was much in vogue during those years . The nature of the setting serves to present a lot of characters in small stories related to that particular winter night at a large airport where things go wrong because of the weather and the inner conflicts of most of the people that are involved in the story . In a way , as Neil Doyle has pointed out in this forum , " Airport " can be seen as the equivalent of " Grand Hotel " , in that so many larger than life figures are seen center stage , as they bring their conflicts to the surface . There is Mel Bakersfeld , the airport director , whose life is so involved in his job , his married life is suffering . At the same time , Tanya Livingston , the executive airline lady , who loves Mel , but knows she can't have him , is seen as a dignified woman who won't make a move to make him feel guilty . We also meet Capt . Vernon Demarest , a married airline pilot who is having an affair with a gorgeous flight attendant , Gwen . When she tells him she is pregnant , Vernon doesn't know what to do . He is in a way , a coward , because he has played with her and probably has no intentions of ever leaving his wife and cushy life . The other couple , the Guerreros , are going through some hard times . The husband is an unemployed explosives expert , who decides to take matters into his own hands . By bringing a small device to the flight he has booked to Rome , will leave Inez , his wife , a wealthy woman because he has taken care of insuring himself . The comic relief comes in the way of Ada Quansett , a crafty older woman , who has a wonderful plan to get free rides on different airlines . Mrs . Quansett is able to get away with her scheme by using her intelligence . Unfortunately , she is in the fateful Rome flight that scares everyone on board and one figures the scare to try ever again , but she has a surprise for everyone at the end , where she gets to fly first class . The film can't concentrate in anyone in particular , so all the principals are never seen for too long . Burt Lancaster , Jean Seberg , Dean Martin , Jacqueline Bisset , Helen Hayes , Van Heflin , Maureen Stapleton , George Kennedy , Dana Wynter , Lloyd Nolan , Gary Collins , Jessie Royce Landis , and the rest , contribute to make the film a nice trip to nowhere . Alfred Newman's music is an asset in the film and Ernest Lazlo cinematography is also effective in showing how people traveled at the time . George Seaton directs this multi talented cast well , creating an entertaining movie along the way .
Poignant story	Not having seen the movie before , it was a complete surprise to watch it on cable the other night . This film shows that little , if nothing , ever changes in the world of politics . In fact , it could well be compared to this year's presidential contest . The only thing that has changed from the time where this film was done is that in order to win an election in this country , the candidate must be independently wealthy , or have benefactors that are willing to put up the money in exchange of favors down the line , or not be able to run at all . H . C . Potter's film shows us a slice of what on the surface was an ideal time in America during the 40s , but deep down , this film speaks a lot of what was wrong then , in a subtle way . Young Katrin Holstrom arrives in Capital City wanting to be a nurse . She has to change plans because when she arrives in the city , she has no money because an unscrupulous man had swindled her out of it . She begins working as a maid at the Morley's mansion . They are the local big name in politics . Mrs . Morley makes candidates , or destroys them . Her own son , Glenn is a Congressman . All this atmosphere contributes to the growth of Katrin , or Katie , as she is called . She takes an interest in politics and she shows that she can speak and ask the right questions the candidates don't want to answer . The movie shows the dirty side of campaigns , in general , as is the case of with what's happening in 2004 in America . Loretta Young was perfect as Katrin Halstrom . In this film she out charms everyone that she comes in contact with . Joseph Cotten is as effective as she always was in whatever he appeared in . Ethel Barrymore is Agatha , the rich woman behind the political machine . Charles Bickford is also excellent as Joseph , the butler . Most movies from that period are sadly dated , but this one keeps the ideals of democracy in check . Bravo to Dory Schary for bringing this movie to the screen .
Spiritual pilgrimage to the Ganges	It speaks volumes that millions of people can gather to celebrate this festival that takes place every twelve years without any problems , or casualty . That the Mela takes place in India , a poor country in comparison to the West , is a tribute to how the people there have achieved a state of nirvana . In general , all the different gurus , swamis , and different religious people seem to be honestly involved in the well being of their souls and passing this set of rules of conduct for anyone who wants to become spiritual and leave all the material trappings aside . Director Maurizio Benazzo , and his collaborator , Nick Day , present us images that are exotic and in sharp contrast with what religion is seen and practiced in this country and others . We are taken to different people who speak directly into the camera and tell us their view about spirituality and how they have arrived at that plateau . There are many interesting side trips to visit with the Dalai Lama , who made an appearance at the festival . His message is how Buddism can coexist with all religions based on mutual respect for other forms of religion . The documentary makes a point in how Hinduism is an ancient religion practiced since much before Christianity . The directors make a point to watch through the camera lens but never make any statements or be judgmental about any aspect of the way the people that are attracted to do the pilgrimage worship .
Never buy retail	Jerome Weidman's novel is the basis for the film of the same name . This film was a curiosity piece . Shown on a cable channel , it proved to be worth a look because of the general good adaptation of the book and the direction of Michael Gordon . The movie takes a look at the " rag trade " , or garment industry of New York in the fifties . We are presented with a trio of ambitious people who want to make it on their own . There's Harriet Boyd , the show room model who has had it and wants to show her talents as a designer . Harriet and Cooper , the man in charge of the production need a great salesman who knows how to sell the affordable dress line to the big department stores , so they entice Teddy Sherman to join their team . Things go smoothly , but Harriet is a woman with a vision that would be her worst enemy . Harriet Boyd feels flattered by Mr . Noble , a man who is influential in what women of a certain status would like to buy , and decides to start an expensive line , neglecting the orders placed with the firm . All this backfires when Teddy finds out the deception and wants out . In the end , Harriet sees the light and what Noble has been trying to do with her and goes back to the partners she left behind and Teddy , who is obviously much in love with her . The film offers glimpses of what 7th Avenue looked like in that era and what goes on behind the production of the fashions that America wore before that industry was exported overseas by the same people that created it . The " Made in USA " label was soon a thing of the past as this industry is not the shadow of what it was . Susan Hayward's portrayal of the ambitious Harriet is what makes this movie worth seeing . George Sanders is perfect as Noble , the man who recognizes Harriet's talents and wants her to come work for him . Dan Dailey is also excellent as the salesman with a lot of flair . Sam Jaffe is Cooper , the decent man who gambles all his savings in the business he knows well . The film will not disappoint , as it keeps the viewer interested at all times .
Not guilty !	Based on a true story , " Boomerang " , a taut courtroom drama , directed by Elia Kazan , will not disappoint . The original crime happened in Connecticut and this film was shot in the area as well and adds veracity to it . In a way , " Boomerang " kept reminding us of " 12 Angry Men " , which came out much later , in that both deal with innocent men that will be punished for crimes they did not commit . It also tells volumes of men like this D . A . who went over to the other side because he strongly believed the man on trial was not guilty and does everything possible to save him from punishment . The film surprises for the way Mr . Kazan got amazing acting from his cast . Dana Andrews is seen as the District Attorney who sees through the whole thing and realizes the man that is being accused could not have committed the crime he is accused of doing . Mr . Andrews gave one of the best performances of his career . The same could be said of Arthur Kennedy , who was one of the best actors of that era . Mr . Kennedy was at home , both in the theater and on the screen . His take on John Waldron , the man being judged , is one of his best on film . The supporting cast is excellent . Lee J . Cobb , a prominent figure of his times , is effective as the chief of police totally convinced he's got the man who committed the murder and thinks Waldron must pay for it . Jane Wyatt plays Madge Harvey with conviction . Sam Levene and Ed Begley also do fine work in the film . Cara Williams has a pivotal role in the movie . Highly recommended for fans of Mr . Kazan .
Make believe	This is the second attempt to bring Jacques Deval's play to the screen . The first one was a vehicle for Marion Davies and Nils Asther , directed by Robert Z . Leonard . This new version bears George Cukor's signature as the director . The film is interesting for two reasons : it marked the last time its star , Norma Shearer , appeared on a film , and it also has Robert Taylor doing comedy , something he wasn't seen in often . " Her Cardboard Lover " is a sophisticated comedy that capitalizes on the strength of its stars . The screen play by Valerie Wyngate has some ups and downs in it that even the great Cukor wasn't able to solve . First , there is a marked age difference between the stars , not because Ms . Shearer looks older , on the contrary , she is in excellent form , but Mr . Taylor appears to be much younger . The film has some good moments for everyone . The best thing Mr . Cukor was able to do was to give the suave George Sanders the part of Tony Barling , the playboy who comes back to claim the love of Consuelo Croyden . They have parted in a bad way , but there's still something between the former lovers . By hiring Terry Trindale as the " fake " lover , in order to make Tony Barling jealous , a new dynamic enters into play . There are two extraordinary sequences toward the end of the film . The first one is the fight between Tony and Terry in the hotel's pantry when dishes , vases , and all kinds of porcelain gets smashed against walls . The second one is in the court that is presided by judge Sam , brilliantly portrayed by Chill Wills . The acting is first rate by this marvelous cast . In minor roles Frank McHugh and Elizabeth Patterson shine . The film is a light comedy that is a delight to watch .
The Gambler	" Owning Mahowny " shown recently on cable came as a total surprise . This is a film to watch because of the amazing performance of Phillip Seymour Hoffman . Under the direction of Richard Kwietniowski , and based on a real incident that occurred in Toronto in the 80s , this film speaks clearly about an addiction and what it does to a man who is in complete denial about his problem . Dan Mahowny is not exactly what one would expect from a bank executive . He appears unkempt and to a certain degree dirty , so that alone , would have made any bank manager pass him over , in favor of a pretty boy who would have looked the part . Obviously , the real Dan was a man that knew his banking business and it was on that basis that he was appointed to the executive post . It appears clearly that Dan is in trouble . The reptilian Frank Perlin comes to him at the beginning of the film to demand what Dan owes him . The only problem is that Dan doesn't have the money . Dan's solution is to " borrow " funds from the bank to cover his debts . This is the beginning of Dan's descent into hell . His gambling addiction will make him steal more and more . As a gambler , Dan plays without any plan . It appears , like with other gamblers , Mahowny is superstitious , as we see when his friend goes to his table to put a curse , in this sick man's mind , and he will lose everything . The next occasion is when he breaks the bank in Atlantic City . Instead of listening to his friend , who tells him to walk away , he gambles it all and ends up with nothing . Dan , like other gamblers , is only concerned with gambling in any shape , or form . Mahowny couldn't care less for the mousy Belinda , the woman who loves him and who confronts him about his gambling addiction . Belinda even offers to give him all her savings to repay his debts , which at the time , have reached astronomic proportions . Belinda's love makes her stand by her man , no matter how bad things are . There's a ray of hope at the end as one sees Dan and Belinda standing next to the fall in Niagara . This is a film that offers a magnificent nuanced performance from Mr . Hoffman . This actor has the ability to get into the skin of all his characters . Aside from being an accomplished actor , he always projects the angst and the turmoil that is going inside Dan . There is not a false moment in Mr . Hoffman's portrayal of Dan . Having seen him on stage , one can only wonder what can't this man do . Minnie Driver , as Belinda is perfect as the girl who thinks Dan is the only man for her . Instead of abandoning him once she realizes his problem , she stays until the end . One hopes things did work out for them , because this is a woman who clearly deserve some happiness . The other great performance is by John Hurt . He plays the Atlantic City casino manager that knows what makes Dan tick . Victor Fox realizes what goes on in the gambler's psyche . Ultimately , he knows Dan will lose everything because he plays without any plan at all . Maury Chaykin has some good moments playing Frank Perlin . The scenes of the casino , which probably were filmed in either a studio , or one of the smaller places , have a seedy look . We don't get wowed by all the opulence one encounters in the big places of Las Vegas , or Atlantic City . Director Kwietniowski , concentrates in keeping his camera on Dan's face as we watch the gambler in action . Ultimately the film belongs to Phillip Seymour Hoffman for his honest and accomplished take on a man who gambled his future away .
The suicide club	Jonathan , the young man at the center of this tale , is a tormented soul who has seen enough in his life . After his alcoholic father dies , he has plans about what to do with his life . By ending it , it appears that his soul would be at rest , but in an unsuccessful attempt to end it all , Jonathan survives , and is sent to a mental institution where , supposedly , he would be helped . John Carney , the talented director of " On the Edge " , which he co-wrote with Daniel James , shows he has clear ideas about what is troubling Jonathan , as well as the other young people in the institution where the young man is sent . Jonathan , who is a man who has clear ideas about why he shouldn't be confined to the hospital , clashes with Dr . Figure , the therapist assigned to work with him and the other young people . Jonathan questions Dr . Figure's authority , but ends up accepting his situation , not without rebelling at every chance he gets . The other two people he identifies with , Toby , and Rachel , have also deeply rooted problems in that they have attempted suicide . Cillian Murphy does another excellent job in the film . He is an actor that is not predictable , as proved by his work in the movies . As Jonathan , he shows an intensity that is incredible . Jonathan Jackson plays Toby in a different fashion , yet , in a subtle fashion he gets inside his character in a great performance . Tricia Vessey is seen as Rachel , a young woman that craves for attention and finds a kindred soul in Jonathan . Stephen Rea continues to surprise in a small role as Dr . Figure . " On the Edge " shows the work of a talented director that surely will go far .
My architect	There is an awkward moment in Sydney Pollack's documentary " Sketches of Frank Gehry " , when the subject of the film confesses about his name change from Goldberg to Gehry . Nothing is made out of it , but perhaps that defines a key to understand the man whose monumental work is examined by his distinguished friend , the director , Sydney Pollack . This is an intimate portrait of the man whose grandiose vision separates him from other luminaries of that field . Frank Gehry is shown working in different projects . It's curious how this man doesn't even know how to use the computer in order to create his intricate designs . It helps he is now a celebrity and wealthy , as he can afford assistants that will execute his thoughts in that new medium he has yet to master . The documentary gives us an idea of the evolution of Mr . Gehry as an innovator and the way he arrived at his present position . It surprising to realize that one of the greatest influences for him was Alvar Aalto , the great architect from Finland . One can see how he can relate to this man , more so than to others that were at the top of his profession during his formative years . We get to hear from a lot of people and his peers . Milton Wexler , his personal analysts confesses how he has worked with Gehry for so many years . Philip Johnson also gives his assessment about the man . Ed Ruscha , the artist , talks about other aspects of Mr . Gehry's life and he even gives credit to the architect's wife , Berta in being a great influence in his life , yet , no one sees her ; only a picture is shown of her . On the other hand , Julian Schnabel , a pretentious artist himself , and dilettante movie director , is interviewed wearing a white bath robe as he pompously describes Gehry to the camera . We feel he is putting us on all the time , that he couldn't care less . He is an admirer of the spaces Gehry creates because they go well together with his art , and the way it's shown . Michael Ovitz , another shady figure , shows up to tell us how he compares Gehry's approach as a form of cubism . Well , who knew the movie mogul was an expert in this matter too ! One of the most obvious omissions in the film is not interviewing Dennis Hopper in the home that Gehry designed for him in Venice , California . Some of the best examples of Gehry's creations appear in the film . The magnificent Guggenheim museum in Bilbao , Spain is presented in all its splendor . The same goes for the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles . The other works are also shown , although , maybe because of the length of the documentary didn't allow to show more . At the end , when all is said and done , we see a man that like all artists is never satisfied by his own work .
Minimize me !	This documentary should be shown in all schools in America . Children are at the mercy of the food industry . A nation of fat people has been created by the unscrupulous merchants that have no qualms to resort to advertising and sponsoring children's programs to hook the young minds into being the industry's main source of revenue . Morgan Spurlock's experiment centering around McDonald's operation is an eye opener . Of course , he does go into extremes in order to illustrate his point . The fact that his health is affected by a diet full of the wrong things , will ultimately be anyone's downfall . In fact , as it's pointed out in the film , there are people that eat at McDonald's on a regular basis . The nutrition value of what's consumed is nothing , at all , plus the fact that eating it regularly will make anyone sick . The documentary uses a very light tone , but it packs a heavy message for those that are unconvinced about the harm of this type of food that is the staple of a lot of people in America . The fact that everything is being super sized , contributes to the problem , which is what Mr . Spurlock is trying to tell his audience . There should be more Morgan Spurlocks out there to put things in perspective for all Americans . He must be hated by the McDonald corporation after this expose . Good job Mr . Spurlock .
Moonlight sonata	Michael Pressman , a man that has directed a lot of television , suddenly gets an idea : How about do a play as a vehicle for his wife , the talented Lisa Chess , who in a way , has sacrificed her own career to dedicate herself to keep the couple's home and bring up the son that both adore . The play Michael decides to do is Terrence McNally's " Frankie and Johnnie in the Clair de Lune " , a work that seems to be perfect . That's where the problems start . Having received an IRS refund , Mr . Pressman thinks he can invest that money into a modest production . Little does he know that what starts as a fun incursion into the theater , ends up costing four times as first envisioned . First thing that goes wrong is the casting of Alan Rosenberg as Johnnie . This actor is involved in an indie picture , plus a series in television . It's clear he is an actor that has " disaster " written all over him . When they begin reading the play , it becomes clear that Alan wants to improvise . After that , he has trouble remembering his lines and finally , his ego gets the best of him and he decides the play is not for him , leaving Michael and Lisa hanging and in debt . After the fiasco he experienced , Michael decides to play Johnnie himself . The play will finally is seen . In a hilarious sequence , Cynthia , the company manager , is seen at the box office trying to deal with the invited crowd on opening night . Kathy Baker , the actress , who has four tickets waiting , gives her name , but Cynthia looks under Bates , as in Kathy , who happens to be the one that played Frankie in the New York production . A few other familiar faces are seen as well . Jilian Armenante does a fine job with her Cynthia . Best of all in the film is Alan Rosenberg , whose own take on what the actor he is supposed to play , must be a composite of other actors he , and Mr . Pressman have met during their years in show business . Lisa Chess is wonderful as Frankie . She is a beautiful woman who should be seen more often . Michael Pressman , playing himself , gives the right tone to a director that lives to regret his involvement in the theater . Others that appear briefly are , Mandy Patinkin , Stephen Tobolowsky , Leslie Moonves , David Kelley , and Hector Elizondo , among others . The film is fun and light , as it satirizes people who think too much of themselves . Michael Pressman has a keen eye for spotting all these people .
My knight in shining armor	This is a delightful movie has the imprint of Sidney Sheldon all over the place . Not only is Mr . Sheldon a good writer , but it shows he has an ear for what seem to work , be it a book , or in this case , a screenplay . Under the direction of Irving Reis , this comedy is still fun to watch after all these years . The stars , of course , are the main reasons for watching " The Boxer and the Bobby Soxer " . The film's premise is about the infatuation of a impressionable teen ager with a much older man . The object of that affection is a playboy who appears to be unsuitable for the girl . The contrast between the older man and the young girl creates a lot of funny situations . To make matters worse , the sister of the young girl is a judge , who sees right through the roguish Richard Nugent and wants him to leave the girl alone , but figures that surely her sister will soon get bored with the man . Myrna Loy does wonders with her role as Margaret Turner . Cary Grant brings his natural elegance to the role of Richard Nugent ; just watch him in the picnic competition . Shirley Temple is a sweet Susan , the girl infatuated with Richard . In minor roles , Rudy Vallee and Ray Collins are perfectly cast . In a couple of scenes in the film we see Richard Nugent in shining armor , as both sisters take turns in imagining him her hero . Only the right one will be rewarded .
Passing time	Miranda July's " Me and You and Everyone we Know " was a surprise . It shows a new director with an inquisitive mind who doesn't get scared of tackling important issues . Ms . July shows a light touch to this story about the complex life of people trying to connect in this complex world we are living . The center of the story focuses on Richard , a shoe salesman , who one sees at the beginning of the film in the process of separation from his black wife . He will keep the children , the teen age Peter , and the younger Robby . Little prepares him in the way his life will have to adjust with the new responsibilities . We don't get to see why the couple is splitting ; they evidently fell out of love and she has decided to move on , while Richard is still trying to understand what happened to him . The two boys are left to fend for themselves most of the time . As children will be children , they get involved in chatting on line . The exchange between Robby and his correspondent is hilarious . The young boy is way too wise for his young years . He is a city slicker and knows how to deal with the situation of the possible pedophile stalking him . At the end we get to realize who the person that has been chatting with him really is . On a separate vignette we see Christine , a woman who does videos where she is the subject and the principal character . Christine also runs a car service for senior citizens in her area , but we mostly see her driving her old grandfather . Christine sees Richard at the store and she can't keep her eyes from him . Evidently it's love at first sight with the reluctant Richard . One of the two other chapters in the film involves two aggressive and precocious teen age girls who go after one of Richard's co-workers who live in the neighborhood . And in the second we meet the lonely girl who loves to shop for the dowry that she will eventually have for when she gets married . She is a sad little girl who obviously lives in her own world without sharing anything with friends and neighbors . The final film of the movie seems to be the key for understanding what is behind all what Ms . July has presented to us , so far . There is a man waiting at a bus stop tapping a coin against a side pole . Little Robbie who has had , almost what could have been a horrible experience , stands by this fellow and asks what is he doing . The answer : passing time , which seems to fit all the situations we have witnessed in the film . The best thing of the movie is John Hawkes . He is a no nonsense actor that contributes enormously to the mood and all what we have seen in the film . Miranda July is also appealing as the lonely and quirky woman looking to fulfill her life with someone she can give her boundless energy and love . The two boys , Miles Thompson and Brandon Ratcliff are delightful to watch because they are normal kids and not the stereotypes one watches in main stream features . Ms . July is a new voice to be reckoned with .
Film noir was never this funny !	Carl Reiner , the multi-talented director of this film , is the only one that could have pulled it off . Working with George Gipe , and Steve Martin in the screen play that serves as the basis of the movie , Mr . Reiner has done the impossible with " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " . Of course , this film is blessed with the magnificent editing by Bud Malin , who meshed the present images against those film noir masterpieces we see , blending the characters of this movie with the stars of the past , in what seems to be a seamless product . It also helps that Miklos Rozsa was the man composing the music , as everything shows a cohesiveness that is hard to distinguished in what was shot in 1982 and the old movies . This spoof to the film noir genre is a pure delight . The main character , Rigby Reardon is the P . I . from hell , but thanks to the creators of this movie , he is perfect as the man at the center of the action . Not being a Steve Martin fan , one has to recognize that when this actor is inspired , he can do excellent work . It would appear that with a director like Carl Reiner , he would have gone off the top , but instead , Mr . Martin gives a good reading of Rigby . Rachel Ward , as the typical woman of those films , is charming . Reni Santoni , Georege Gaynes and the rest of the supporting cast do wonders under Carl Reiner's orders . The film brought back memories of those timeless masterpieces of the past and the stars that shone in them . We get to see Humphrey Bogart , Ava Gardner , Ingrid Bergman , Vincent Price , Alan Ladd , Veronica Lake , Barbara Stanwyck , Fred McMurray , Edward G . Robinson , and the others at the height of their fame playing against the present cast and making the viewer happy watching all the antics which Mr . Reiner and his team have created for our amusement . This is a funny look at the old movies !
Black cloud over London	Daniel Percival's " Dirty War " , a BBC production made for television was shown recently on cable . The film has a documentary style in the way it goes after the people that caused the near holocaust in one of the big metropolis of the world , London . In fact , this film , produced in 2004 is almost a cautionary tale of the events of the following year , in which terrorists set explosive devices in the public transport that killed innocent people that were in the wrong place , at the wrong time . The film impresses for the pace the director and the production team gave to the project . There are no dull moments in the movie as we watch the preparation by the terrorists and the people that are following their dirty work . Although the inevitable happens , it's amazing just to think what would be the consequences if a real ' dirty bomb ' was planted in such a densely populated area . The last images of the film have a chilling effect . The mob scenes and the way the whole area is contaminated send shivers of fear , thinking how it could possible happen anywhere .
The perfect plot	Claude Lelouch was at the top of his career when he conceived this immensely satisfying thriller . Not having seen it , we caught with it recently thanks to finding it in DVD format . The only bad aspect of the disc we watched was the poor sound track it had , we had to keep pumping up the volume during the dialogs and lowering it whenever the musical number of the film-within-the-film was shown . As with most of his movies , Mr . Lelouch relied on Francis Lai to create the score . The most amusing scene happens when Simon is being interrogated by the police and the inspector tells Simon about a " man and a woman " and Simon , without missing a beat begins to sing the music from the real " A Man and a Woman " , a film by Mr . Lelouch , where the same actor , Jean-Louis Trintignant appeared . The film will probably confuse some viewers because there is no clear indication that after Simon meets Jeanine and goes to see Martine at the park and his subsequent escape to either Spain , Switzerland , or Genoa , the narrative will go back to tell the real story in flashbacks . Other than that minor incident , " Le Voyou " is a perfect movie about a caper and the people that planned it . Jean-Louis Trintignant was also at one of his best moments in the French cinema . He is a joy to watch as the slick Simon , who is always a step ahead of everyone else . Danielle Delorme , Christine Lelouch , Charles Gerard , Yves Robert and Charles Denner , do excellent work for the director . Another interesting fact is that Claude Lelouch did the interesting cinematography in the film . His camera angles , especially when the inspector is interrogating the Galloises after their son has been kidnapped , he shows the couple on both sides of the police , of whom we only see the back of his head . The chase scenes are cleverly done , showing cars speeding through the Parisian streets . This is a highly recommended film for fans of the genre and Mr . Lelouch .
Rock around the clock	" Blackboard Jungle " marked a turn around in films coming from Hollywood . This was a film that dealt with a reality that movies had not dared to touch before in the way they always wanted to sugar coat every picture about teens in high school . The guys one sees here are the real thing , as though taken from any high school in the inner city of that time . The amazing thing this high school , at the center of the action , is not typical of any other schools in that one males attended and no females are to be seen around them . By making an old male high school , Richard Brooks updated Evan Hunter's novel to show the violent nature of most of those young men that are clearly from under privileged homes , perhaps , boys whose fathers had bolted and left their women to bring up the sons they didn't want to have anything with . The film is important in that it marked the arrival of a strong actor that would dominate the movies like no other one , Sidney Poitier . With his handsome looks , and his great screen presence , Mr . Poitier was instrumental in breaking into the main stream movies in ways others tried , but didn't make a dent . Perhaps it was in the cards that Hollywood began dealing with a reality they tried to ignore integrating their stories with Blacks that had taken a back seat to other , not so talented performers . The film works because of the strong performances by Glenn Ford , Vic Morrow and Sidney Poitier . Also , the theme song of the film , " Rock Around the Clock " went to become an anthem for viewers that filled the theaters for the thrill of hearing it play as the film started , putting them in the right frame of mind to accept what they were going to see . Richard Brooks is the one responsible for the adaptation and the inspired direction for the movie that still resonates because of its raw energy .
The Alexandria Ceremonial Police Orchestra goes on tour	We know there is going to be trouble for the arriving members of the Egyptian orchestra , when they are not met at the airport . To make matters worse , they pile into a bus that takes them to a place , so isolated , that for all practical purposes they have gone to another planet . The Israeli town is in the Negev and has little life on its own . The orchestra's leader , the proper Tawfiq , goes to get help when they get off the bus . The only thing in sight is Dina's cafe , where nothing seems to happen . Dina , who is skeptical at first , realizes the plight of these men , stranded until the next day in that isolated spot with practically no money , decides to feed them soup and bread . Dina , who is a lonely woman who has seen better days , decides to take Tawfiq and Haled to her own home and bullies two men that hang out in her cafe to take the others to their relatives . Dina , after taking the men to her own small apartment , decides to take the men out to a small eatery . As she gets to know them , she begins to develop a fondness for the older musician , who also feels the attraction , but he is too polite to do anything about it . Following the night in the small town we watch as the band walks out in formation to where they will be picked up . Eran Kolinn , the writer and director of " Tbe Band's Visit " , created an intimate portrait of lonely people coming together because of circumstances beyond their control . There is also an undercurrent message about how bitter enemies can come together when they really know each other . Talking seems to dispel old fears since we all are the same no matter where . The film is enhanced by the quiet dignity of Sasson Gabai , who plays the band's director . He plays Tawfiq with such flair that he wins us from the start . Ronit Elkabetz is seen as Dina , the woman of a certain age , now stuck in that forsaken place . She lives a lonely existence in that forsaken place that she is grateful for the distraction of the stranded musicians and sees a possibility of some bliss even if it's short-lived . Eran Kolinn is a talent that will go to bigger and better things because he shows he can do it , judging from his work in this winning film .
The girl in the villa	In a way , " Malena " kept reminding us of a famous photograph by Ruth Orkin , in which a young American woman is seen walking alone in an Italian street where there must be about forty men that are ogling this beautiful young creature in different degrees of desire shouting things about what they would love to do with her . In Giuseppe Tornatore's " Malena " , the young woman at the center of the story , suffers that kind of sexual predatory practice from all the men in the little town in Sicily where she lives . It appears Italian men , then , as well as now , can express anything at all , especially for their big friends ' benefit , about their opinions of how they feel about a girl . Even the town's women have no qualms in shouting nasty things as Malena passes them by . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you would like to stop reading . The film takes place during the last days of WWII . Malena's husband has gone to war , but he never returns . She is left to fend for herself under the most extreme circumstances . In order to make ends meet , all the men in town offer Malena anything so they can get favors from her in return . Watching all this is Renato , a young man who has reached puberty and is completely taken by Malena's beauty . Renato follows this woman all over the town . Whenever Malena is coming into view , Renato abandons his bicycle and makes a point to pass near this gorgeous creature almost breathing her aura . A lot of people in this forum have expressed their views in making " Malena " a coming of age film . But contrary to what they might take , Mr . Tornatore , its director , like most film makers in Europe are influenced by the politics and the history of their country . In here , it appears that Malena stands for the way Italy was manipulated by Mussolini in transforming the country into a fascist paradise . Also Malena , like Italy , is turned into a prostitute in the eyes of many Italians , who watched their beloved country invaded by the Germans , who were supposed to be their allies . " Malena " is a film that is blessed by the presence of that amazingly beautiful actress Monica Belucci . Ms . Belucci is perfect for the title role and runs away with the film . In one of the most hear wrenching scenes in this movie , we watch in horror as the other women in town have their revenge in punishing Malena for what they perceive are her sins and her collaboration with the enemy . Young Giuseppe Sulfaro is seen as the appealing Renato Amoroso , the young man awakening to his own sexuality . He lives just to spy on the woman that has captured his imagination , and even in his solitary gratification she plays a large role in his vivid imagination . " Malena " owes a lot to Giuseppe Tornatore for what he has been able to accomplish .
The heart of darkness	Walter , a child molester , is released from jail , where he has served time for one of the most heinous crimes ever committed by a person . He is a man that has lost everything in the process . His sister repudiates him ; the only one being kind is his brother-in-law , Carlos , who feels it's his duty to be nice to him because Walter had proved to be his friend in his own time of need . What's to expect from a man like Walter ? This is the basis of this courageous and disturbing film , directed by Nicole Kassell with great sensitivity to the subject matter . Can Walter keep away from the temptations that were instrumental in landing him in jail ? Or , would he go back to harming unsuspecting children ? When he arrives in Philadelphia , Walter is given a job by a man whose father had met him in prison . For all practical purposes , Walter seems to be behaving himself , even when his new apartment overlooks a play area of an elementary school . He is trying to work things out with a therapist , apparently , making progress . He becomes obsessed with a man he sees hanging out by the playground offering candy and rides to young boys . This is a sad reminder for him of what landed him in jail . In the lumber factory where he works , Walter meets Vicky . She is also a woman who has seen a lot . Vicky doesn't appear to be a likely candidate for a relationship with the ex-con , but they appear to be more compatible than what one gives them credit for , at a simple glance . Vicky begins caring for Walter as his secret past suddenly is blown out of proportion in the work place . Vicky is not a quitter , and she realizes she loves him , and she can't believe the monster Walter is supposed to be , is the man that she has fallen for . After quitting his job , Walter is seen on a bus , attracted by a young girl that is traveling alone . He follows her into a park , but the encounter only emboldens him to pursue the girl . When everything turns bad , after seeing his sister briefly , Walter begins a predatory march toward the park , searching for Robin , the meek young girl he met before . That encounter reveals that Robin is a damaged girl , victim of an abusive father and Walter changes his mind about it . The film ends in a positive note as Vicky comes for Walter to take him to her place . " The Woodsman " works because of the incredible Kevin Bacon . He is the Walter of the story . Mr . Bacon has never been better ! This actor surprises by the way he conveys the essence of the character just by looking at all the emotions going through inside him . Under the direction of Nicole Kassell , Kevin Bacon rises to the challenge of capturing Walter . Kira Sedgwick is seen as Vicky . She is also contributes to make the film even better . In supporting roles Mos Def , Eve , Benjamin Bratt and the sweet Hannah Pilkes are seen . Ms . Pilkes is a revelation in the film . She shows great talent holding her own against Mr . Bacon . Nicole Hassell and her cinematographer , Xavier Perez Grobit have done wonders with a film that in spite of the darkness of the situation , shed a lot of light into the picture . Ms . Hassell is a new talent who will , no doubt , go places .
The HMS Torrin	The British destroyer HMS Torrin serves as the meeting place where men from all walks of life come together as they are called to do their duty for their country . The lives of the different men interconnect in amazing ways , in good times and during tragedy at sea . David Lean and Noel Coward shared the directorial duty in a film that is one of the best ones of the genre . It would appear impossible by today's egotistical standards that two men , like Mr . Coward and Mr . Lean , would even consent to work in a film project . The unity shown in the making of the film must have come from those trying days during the war days in England . The large ensemble cast put together for the film showcases some of the best talent of the British screen like no other of its kind . Noel Coward , who was a colossal figure in the East End stage , is seen as Capt . Kinross , the man at the helm of the Torrin . His wife is played by Celia Johnson , one of the best actresses of her generation , and who later would go to collaborate with Mr . Coward in what must be , perhaps , one of the best achievements in the English cinema , " Brief Encounter " . In supporting roles we see a young John Mills playing Shorty Blake . Bernard Miles is seen as the kind Walter Hardy . His wife Katherine is portrayed by Joyce Carey , another excellent character actress who was always a welcome presence in any film in which she appeared . Kay Walsh , Michael Wilding , Daniel Massey seen as a young boy , and the baby Juliet Mills also appear in the film . " In Which We Serve " is still a pleasure to watch because it shows the valor of the men called to defend their country .
Hate and prejudice	Edward Dmytryk's " Crossfire " is a rare film coming from the Hollywood of the 1940s . This was groundbreaking territory for Mr . Dmytryk and the studio because of what the director and his adapter , John Paxton , decided to do with the novel , in which the film is based . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading now . Richard Brooks novel was about the killing of a gay soldier . In the movie , the subject matter was turned around to prejudice against Jews , a theme that was taboo during that time in the American cinema . It's to Mr . Dmytryk's credit to have had the courage to get involved with this film project , at all . The movie is an outstanding piece of film making because the way the director presents it . Obviously influenced by the film noir style , we are taken to the Washington of the post war . The opening scene about the brutal murder of Samuels shows such unusual cruelty being inflicted to a decent man , who we don't know yet , or why has been killed , but who didn't deserve to die in such horrible fashion . The basis of the murder is prejudice , pure and simple . We realize how in the mind of an ignorant man , the mere fact of being successful and different , plays in the mind of the assassin . Samuels stands as the sacrificial lamb , the same way the gay soldier is the victim in the novel . The parallels are well drawn . This film makes compelling viewing because of the brilliant star turn of Robert Ryan , as Montgomery . Mr . Ryan was an actor that always played interesting roles , but never so well as in " Crossfire " . Also , there is a great appearance by Gloria Grahame , as Ginny , the prostitute with her heart in the right place . The rest of the cast play as an ensemble . Robert Young , as the police detective in charge of the investigation plays is a decent man who has known prejudice first hand in his own family and speaks loudly against it . Robert Mitchum plays a cool Sgt . Keeley who is deeply touched by the crime when one of his men is accused of committing it . Sam Levene is excellent in his small role of Samuels . This is a film to watch because of it probably the first to speak out loud against ignorance .
Sweet fifteen	Mexican and other Latin American immigrants bring with them their traditions . It's a custom in many Spanish speaking countries to have a big party in honor of a girl who celebrates her fifteen years , an age where they are considered to have reached a milestone in their womanhood . We are taken to a celebration of an elaborate " sweet fifteen " party at the start of the story , in which the girl , being honored dresses in a gown and is accompanied by her closest friends . These parties become quite elaborate , depending on the income of the parents . Magdalena , a pretty young woman , not yet fifteen , attends her cousin Eileen's party and is paired with the young man she is in love with , Herman . Eileen is the center of attraction , as she dances the opening waltz surrounded by her attending friends and their escorts . It's clear that Eileen's parents have done well in their new adopted country , and they dote on their daughter . Magdalena's parents , on the other hand , are struggling to make a living . During the celebration , Carlos , Eileen's disgraced brother , crashes the party to present some flowers he has stolen to his sister , but he is chased away . Carlos , who is gay and has no place to go , ends up taking refuge with his great-uncle Tomas , an elderly man living in the Echo Park section of Los Angeles . Tomas lives in the lower level of a house that has been bought by two gay lovers . Gays , in general have been buying property in Echo Park , displacing the Mexicans , as they gentrify the area . Magdalena , who would be fifteen soon , is offered her cousin's dress for her own party . Unfortunately , she has filled up and the gown is too small for her . Herman , who has been making sexual demands of Magdalena , was impregnated by the young woman , something that in their inexperience didn't count on . When Magdalena's father discovers the truth , he banishes her from his house ; he feels as though she has betrayed her parents and her church . Magdalena also takes refuge with Uncle Tomas , the kind man who welcomes all these problem children without passing judgment , or speaking down to them . Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland , the directors of " Quinceanera " have produced a surprising work that examines a lot of problems within the Mexican community in L . A . They also seem to have in mind the way that gentrification ruin the same area they are trying to improve . On the one hand , yes , they get fantastic prices for property that is beyond the means of most poor families , and then , they don't contribute anything to the fabric of the people they are displacing . The invaders , mainly gay , are another minority that has been discriminated , but they actually just concentrate in real estate values , rather than sharing the area with long standing Mexicans living in the area . The film is made better by the two stars , Emily Rios and Jesse Garcia . Both Ms . Rios and Mr . Garcia make their characters more appealing with little effort . Chalo Gonzalez , a veteran actor plays the kind Tomas with his usual style . J . R . Cruz is seen as Herman , the boy who disgraces Magdalena and runs away from her at the time he needed his support . " Quinceanera " is a bittersweet story made with great love by its creators , Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland . This is a film that will stay with the viewer because of its simplicity which has an universal appeal .
Fascists in our midst	" Keeper of the Flame " , the 1942 George Cukor movie was shown recently on cable . The screen play is by Donald Ogden Stewart , one of the best writers working in movies at the time . This somber film holds our interest because of Mr . Cukor's excellence as a director . The film was also the second film that Spencer Tracy and Katherine Hepburn did together . The great Robert Forrester , a man that is considered a patriot , has died . We are taken at the beginning of the film to witness his funeral during a rainy spell . It appears how much the death of this man has touched the people , as we see lining the streets of the small town where he lived . Steven O'Malley , a news correspondent comes into town to report about it . He is a distinguished journalist that wants to get a first hand view of what was behind the accident that caused the death . He wants to meet the widow , the enigmatic Christine Forrest , who at first is reluctant to cooperate , but who is one of the keys to solving the mystery . Fascism , was one of the themes that preoccupied Hollywood before and during WWII . The figure of Robert Forrest seemed to be modeled after Charles Lindberg . Both men's lives appear to have shared a common interest in their admiration for all the things that were happening in Germany during that period . It was obvious that O'Malley will get in waters about his head as he investigates , but the awful truth emerges , and it's not pretty . Spencer Tracy proves why he was one of the best actors in movies during that period this movie was done . He worked effortlessly in front of the camera , yet , his interpretation of O'Malley comes as one of the best things he ever played . Katherine Hepburn , in a subdued performance , is also an equal match for Mr . Tracy . Her Christine Forrester was also one of her best appearances . The supporting players , Richard Whorf , the excellent Margaret Wycherly , Forrest Tucker , Audrey Christie , and Darryl Hickman , among them , contribute to make this movie better .
David and Goliath	A veteran from the Vietnam war , Hank Deerfield , finds himself in a situation he never would have guessed he would ever be . His son is reported AWOL from his base . This is something he has not prepared to face , or perhaps never happen . After all Jonathan , who has spent a tour of duty in Iraq has come home to perhaps a quiet life away from the dangers of the front line . Hank's other son has also died in combat , so now he finds himself questioning the military people in charge of his son , something he would not have thought about . As Hank goes on his quest to look into Jonathan's disappearance , he comes to a stop when he sees a janitor raising an American flag that is upside down . That disturbs him and tells the confused man about what it means to do such a thing . Hank faces all kinds of red tape from the military . When human remains are found near the base , it is determined that the hacked up body that has been discovered belongs to his son . That in turn , takes the investigation into the hands of the local police . Hank gets a friendly ear from detective Emily Sanders . Together they embark in an investigation that will question the inner fabric of the military unit where Jonathan served . As a father , Hank will not give up in his quest for truth and justice . There are some clues as to how most of Jonathan's combat buddies have played a role in the mystery that surrounds his death . Paul Haggis follows his award winning " Crash " with this film that poses a lot of questions . Whereas in the former work the director exposes race relations in a polarized community , he now takes a bigger issue , a super force that has taken an weaker and tiny foe in a hated war . It is obvious who the David is and who is his enemy . The metaphor of Goliath and David in the Valley of Elah serves as a subtle message in this film for which Mr . Haggis co-wrote the screenplay with Marc Boal . The creators of the film must have had Tommy Lee Jones in mind as they set to write it . Never has an actor been so right for the principal role as Mr . Jones proves . With his lined face and unsmiling approach to the character , he is always on target . One doesn't even think he is acting because his instincts convince us he is no one but the father facing a crisis after the horrible tragedy he is now facing . Charlize Theron , who is seen as Emily Sanders , also contribute to the film's overall success . The secondary cast members do excellent work under Mr . Haggis ' direction . Susan Sarandon doesn't have much to do , and the same could be said about Jason Patric , Josh Brolin , James Franco and the rest . The film is dominated from beginning to end by the larger than life presence of Tommy Lee Jones . Perhaps the last sequences of the film illustrate what Paul Haggis set out to do with the film .
In the wee small hours of the morning . . . .	The turning point in " The Matador " comes about half through the movie when Danny , an unsophisticated man from Denver , is sitting in the balcony of his Mexico City hotel , enjoying a quiet moment . Someone knocks on his door , and knowing it's Julian , the paid assassin , he refuses to answer . But did he really ? Richard Shephard , the director of " The Matador " , presents us with a character , Julian Noble , who shows no redeemable qualities . In fact , we have already seen him in action , doing what he does best . When Julian meets Danny at the bar of the Camino Real in Mexico City , he spills the beans and tells his new acquaintance what he really does for a living . Danny , who has come to sell his program to a Mexican company , but it seems he is competing against a local outfit that appears to be in the front for getting the contract . Danny is a naive person who falls prey of the charisma and charm doled out by the smarter Julian . It's not until some time later , on a cold winter night that the killer appears at Danny's door asking his friend to repay a favor and accompany him on a trip to Tucson . It's at this point that the secret that binds them together is revealed in an unexpected way . Pierce Brosnan , acting against type , makes a great contribution with his irreverent Julian Noble . Just to watch him walking through the hotel lobby in his Speedo and boots gives the right impression about his character . Greg Kinnear , on the other hand , plays the straight part of this odd couple . Hope Davis appears only in a couple of scenes leaving us to lament why didn't she stay longer . Philip Baker Hall puts an appearance as the liaison between Julian and his assignments . Richard Shephard directs with style working with his own material . The musical score is by Rolfe Kent and the crisp cinematography of David Tattersall enhances everything .
The Birds according to Pasolini	A picaresque approach by a master of the Italian cinema resulted in this personal and different film by Pier Paolo Pasolini . The director , who wrote and produced this picture , was in great form in this story that is more like a fable , deliciously acted by Toto and Ninetto Davoli , one of the best pairings in Pasolini's movies . The film is , in many aspects , a road movie . From the beginning , we watch as Toto and Ninetto take to the road in their trip to nowhere , it seems , but a trip which permits Pasolini examine some of the things that obsessed him , mainly his dislike for organized religion , as he perceived it in his country , as it clashed with reality . He takes the life of Saint Francis and the story about his relationship with the birds as the main topic for the movie . It's hard to add anything else to what already has been said by the valuable contributions to IMDb . This film is one of the most inspired by the director . In it , he doesn't pound on the viewer's head those things that were dear to him . In fact , the film has a whimsical touch as we follow the two travelers , Toto and Ninetto , through rural Italy as a raven keeps telling them stories . Toto is perfect as the older man who is living in his own world and doesn't see the changes around him . Ninetto Davoli gives a great performance as the happy go lucky son . Their surname , is Innocenti , or Innocent , which in a way , fits their characters rather well . The black and white cinematography by Mario Bernardo and Tonino Delli Colli works wonders for the film . Ennio Morricone's musical score also enhances all that one sees on the screen . This is a light Passolini , but one that delves deep into the subjects that were so dear to the director's heart .
Writer's block	Judith Ralitzer , a successful mystery novelist , is interviewed in a French television program not unlike " Bouillion de culture " , as the film starts . It appears the host of the program didn't care much for her latest novel . What he doesn't realize is that Ms . Ralitzer has been utilizing a man that is in reality the writer himself of many of her best sellers . " Roman de Gare " , which translates as ' airport novel ' , is a movie that plays in different levels . It is a mystery , and psychological character study of a famous writer who can't write and the man responsible for the success she has enjoyed . She has been employing the talented , but weird , Pierre Laclos , who may , or may not be a serial killer on the loose . Things are not easily explained as it is left to the viewer's imagination to solve this story . Claude Lelouch , a French director not associated with this genre , shows an affinity for telling the story with its many twists in such a way that one is riveted by the narrative . Mr . Lelouch , whose earlier success sort of betrayed his later works , shows he can't be easily dismissed . He wrote his own screen play which clearly demonstrates he understands the material and how to present it to his audience . Dominique Pinon , not exactly a matine idol , was a felicitous choice to portray Pierre Laclos . He has a reptilian quality that we find repugnant , especially knowing first hand about the serial killer roaming the highways of France in search of victims . Mr . Pinon does wonder with a role that with someone else could not project the amount of hidden message he sends to the viewer . Fanny Ardant , an elegant actress , is also magnificent as the writer that has lost her creative powers . Ms . Ardant does amazing work for the director . When she has a fine role to play , she can be sublime , which is the case with her take of Judith Ralitzer . The same can be said about Audrey Dana , who plays Hugette , the woman abandoned by her boyfriend on a rest stop . Ms . Dana , who is new to us , complete the trio of brilliant performers in this intriguing tale . Claude Lelouch is in excellent form once again .
The jock from hell	Never having seen " The Advocate's Devil " , we decided to take a chance and frankly , it paid off quite well . Thanks to director Jeff Fleckner , the film has a lot going . In fact , the crisp cinematography used in it and the excellent editing makes this a movie well worth a look . The film is based on Alan Dershowitz's novel , a defense attorney , himself . We are presented with a situation of how a lawyer's bad judgment clouds his vision and gets a client absolved of a crime that seems , in retrospect , too obvious to even get involved in . Abe Ringel ( Ken Olin ) is retained by jock star Joe Campbell ( Holt McCallany ) when a young woman accuses him of raping her . In fact , Ringel and his team of investigators seem to have doubts about this client from the start . Joe Campbell figures he is above the law and can do whatever he thinks he can get away with , even after a tragedy occurs , for which he is not even blamed . It's not until he decides to concentrate on Emma , Ringel's daughter , when everything comes to a head . The film is interesting to watch because it's not the typical Movie of the Week type . The acting is good and the cast gives an excellent account under the direction of Mr . Bleckner . " The Advocate's Devil " will not disappoint because the quick pace and credible story .
Strangers on the ferry	Thomas , a young man on his way to England , is seen running to catch the ferry to Portsmouth . He almost misses the boat when the immigrations officer asks to see his papers , but he makes it on board . When he goes to eat , he stands behind a mysterious woman who doesn't want to have her chips with the roast beef she has ordered . She turns to Thomas to offer him her frittes , and he accepts . As fate would have it , they end up sharing the same table . Alice , who is older than Thomas , asks him to accompany him to the duty free shop thinking he can get extra liquor for her , but since he is a minor , he is refused . Thomas , who had told Alice he is 18 , is in reality only 16 . They end up in the ship's disco for a drink . Alice who has about three stiff drinks suddenly becomes more talkative . The young man begins to caress her when he asks her to dance . All along Alice has told Thomas she is going home because she has broken a painful marriage . It's almost inevitable this pair would end up in bed . Thomas , who is not experienced , acts awkwardly with Alice . As the ship is nearing Portsmouth , Thomas helps Alice with her luggage , but since he forgets his own suitcase , he runs back to get it , asking Alice to please wait for him . When he returns , she is gone . He runs after customs to try to catch with her , but he sees her in a car with a man and a small child leaving , without even looking at him ! Catherine Breillat's " Breve traversee " is a bittersweet story about a young man's awakening to sex . For being only 16 , he is more sophisticated than some people in his age group . Alice , on the other hand , while acting bored at the outset , is looking forward to her night of love making because she probably has calculated this will go no further as they go in different directions . It's with sadness one sees how deeply the encounter has affected Thomas , who feels betrayed at the end . As usual , Ms . Breillat directs the film with such an economy of details that what we see is a terse , but realistic way about how sometimes things happen . It's not always the romantic idea that Hollywood wants the viewer to see , but in many cases , like this , it's just a moment where things come together without any adornment . Sarah Pratt , makes a cool Sarah . She is older , and wiser . Sarah sees her opportunity to have no strings attached sex with an impressionable young man she has no intentions of seeing again . Thomas , on the other hand , is nervous and awkward at first , then gains confidence and his preconceived idea is just a few minutes of sex . Gilles Guillain is good as Thomas . Ms . Breillat tells a lot in an hour and twenty minutes !
Carols in the trenches	" Joyeux Noel " integrates a large European cast as the film explores the Christmas Eve truce of 1914 , something that has been documented in other films about WWI . Where writer / director Christian Carion succeeds is in the way he presents the material for the screen . We are taken to the trenches , where German , French , and Scottish troops are seen fighting a fierce battle in which the Germans are showing a superior advantage from their side . During the exchange many soldiers die and are left in the snow covered field as the troops regroup to consider what kind of action to take . In the spirit of the Christmas holidays the men from each faction are given extra rations , ornaments , and even trees and liquor from each of their countries to celebrate the occasion . It's a wonder to see the German side awash with small trees that are lit and raised over the edge of their trenches . Suddenly , there is the sound of music everywhere and the commanders of each faction come together to declare a cease fire so the men can celebrate Christmas Eve . It's at this point that the main point of the film is made , as the terrible war seems to recede and all the men come together to rejoice , more like friends , than enemies . It's a lovely moment in which peace on earth seems to be achievable . As all this is happening , Anna Sorenson , a talented singer , comes to the German side to be reunited with her tenor husband , Nikolaus Sprink . They are instrumental for bringing more joy to the men by joining their wonderful voices to sing traditional songs and carols . Among the cast , Diane Kruger , Bruno Furmann , Guillaume Canet , Daniel Bruhl , Bernard LeCoq , Ian Richardson , Alex Ferns , and other actors from many countries come together to celebrate and forget the insanity and death that surrounds them . Christian Carion is to be congratulated for bringing this story to the screen as it shows human nature at its best .
Parisian adventure	Stanley Donen , the director of " Charade " , was a man better known for his contribution to the musical genre . In a way , he was a natural for directing this marvelous movie of adventure and romance based in Paris , a city well known to the director . In fact , it didn't come as a surprise this is one of his best movies Mr . Donen ever directed . In fact , " Charade " has all the right elements to work as it does . First it's a thriller adventure as the beautiful Reggie is being menaced by some unsavory characters and she has no clue why are they doing that to her . Her dead husband ties her in to all the bad guys that want to get hold of a treasure she possesses , but has no idea about what could it be . When Peter enters the picture , Reggie feels protected , but then there is a doubt planted in her that makes her think twice about his intentions . In the meanwhile , Reggie has to put up with those bad guys shadowing her . " Charade " is so appealing because of the immense talented Audrey Hepburn , who was perfect for the role of Reggie . This young woman who works as a translator is one of the best things Ms . Hepburn did on the screen . The actress was a good comedienne as well as an elegant figure that graced whatever she played . Dressed by Givenchy , Audrey Hepburn is a beautiful excuse to look at . Cary Grant is seen as the man who ultimately conquers Reggie . In spite of the age difference , Mr . Grant was always a welcome addition to any film . The easy chemistry between the two stars is one of the strong points of the film . Cary Grant is perfectly suave in the film . The supporting cast was excellent . Walter Matthau , James Coburn , George Kennedy , Ned Glass , among others , were perfect . " Charade " offers a melodious musical score and gives the film a dimension and adds to the action . The great cinematography by Charles Lang takes in the beauty of Paris at its best . This is one of those films in which Paris seems to add to the general enjoyment one feels in watching it . " Charade " is an excellent film no matter how many times one watches it thanks to the inspired direction of Stanley Donen and the gorgeous Audrey Hepburn who is irresistible in it .
Arrogance	Director Lars Von Trier brings his slanted take of an America of the 30s as a metaphor of what is wrong with the country . He brings his own agenda to a place he has only known in his mind , because the fact remains he has never set foot in the country ! The idea of setting the film in a sound stage seems original at first , but then it works against it . The limitations of the setting don't add much to what is happening , but that's Mr . Von Trier's own interpretation of how he wants to tell this morality play . The story of Grace , the destitute woman , who shows herself one day in Dogville , has a lot of interpretations and meanings . At first , she gains the trust of the citizens ; they let her stay . The middle section is how Grace gives her best to the town , only to be punished and enslaved by the same people she tried to help before . This in turn , leads to the betrayal by Tom , the man who loved her , to sell her to the unknown gangster that turned out to be Grace's own father . This film could use some trimming . The acting is first rate . Nicole Kidman , as Grace , is at the top of her craft . She is brilliant in a role that is tailor made for her . Also good is Paul Bettany . His Tom goes a deep transformation . Chloe Sevigny plays Liz with conviction . It's very hard to single out anyone because the ensemble acting is first rate . At the end , while the credits are rolling , the director decides to show a slide picture presentation about a corrupt America for all of us to see as we leave the theater . Mr . Von Trier will not be filming in this country any time soon , but a trip to a Dogville , USA , is in order for him to put his perceptions in order .
The thief from Chicago	Michael Mann's debut film shows signs of greatness and what would follow . Mr . Mann is a man that knows how to get the best out of his movies , as he clearly shows in the 1981 " Thief " . His adaptation of Frank Hohimer's " The Home Invaders " proved to be the right choice . Mr . Mann has to be congratulated about the atmosphere he created for the film and the brilliant music score by Tangerine Dream . The film concentrates in Frank , the professional thief at the center of the action . Frank is a complex character . He has been in prison , but has no intention of ever going back . If the caper one witnesses at the start of the film was amazing , Mr . Mann had a bigger surprise for us in what Frank and his crew achieve with the job they pull at the end of the film ! Frank seems to be a loner . When he meets Jessie , he goes too rough on her , denoting he might like women , but he doesn't know how to treat a wounded soul like this beautiful lady . The scene where Frank takes Jessie into the all night diner , and speak frankly to her , has an improvised look . Whether the director encouraged his star to do so , one will never know , but that's the way it struck us . Frank's association with the fatherly mob figure Leo proves to be something he wouldn't normally do . Frank attracts , as a result of this partnership , the corrupt cops from Chicago . They know he is hiding behind the car dealer's front and want to shake him up . Frank is way too cool to have anything to do with them , which infuriates these bad detectives following him . The final scenes show how Frank outfoxes Leo . He has to act tough in order to get Jessie to leave with the infant . Right after that we are treated at a few bombings as Frank is erasing his trail . The final moments at Leo's home is well paced with the violence exploding to a crescendo as we watch how Frank confronts Leo's gang . James Caan has one of the best moments of his long and distinguished career playing Frank . The actor , under the guidance of Mr . Mann , gives what might be , the performance of his lifetime . Mr . Caan's instincts plays a big dividend . He makes Frank a likable man on the wrong side of the law . Robert Prosky plays Leo with great panache . This cunning old man feels he can get away with swindling a thief , but in the end , he is proved wrong . Mr . Prosky , a distinguished theater actor , makes an invaluable contribution to the film . Tuesday Weld , as Jessie , doesn't have too much to do , since the emphasis is on showing Frank . Ms . Weld is not seen as much as one would like to , and it's a shame because she is an intelligent presence in whatever she plays . James Belushi is right in his part . Willie Nelson shows up briefly in a couple of good scenes . Mr . Mann's film debut heralded there would be better things coming , although if he had only directed " The Thief " , he could have felt satisfied of what he accomplished .
Loves of a blonde	Lila , a pretty blonde girl living in the Arab quarter of Marseilles , sticks out like a sore thumb . Lila is young , voluptuous , and totally foreign , in contrast with the rest of the inhabitants of that neighborhood . Therefore , Lila becomes the object of desire for Chimo and his three cronies that seem to spend their time hanging out without any jobs to go to . Thus begins this erotically charge tale of a romance between two unlikely partners , the blonde Lila and the dark and intense Chimo . Ziad Doueiri , the Lebanese director , bases his film in a novel by Chimo that from what we have read is an explicit account of their relationship . Lila likes Chimo from the beginning . She realizes he isn't like the rest of his worthless friends . Lila loves to tease Chimo with her tales of erotic fantasies and loves talking ' dirty ' to him . Chimo becomes infatuated with Lila , much to his friends ' chagrin , who feel left out by Chimo's involvement with Lila . It's Mouloud , the more vocal of the gang that goes to spy on Lila and Chimo , but not finding anything , he returns to the girl's apartment with his friends to harm Lila . It's not until that point , when Chimo goes to the apartment and finds Lila crying hysterically that he realizes the true secret about Lila , which is confirmed at the end of the film when the mysterious driver of the grey limousine that supposedly comes to pick up Lila for fun and games , is revealed to the audience . Then , and only then , we realize we have been taken for a ride by the Mr . Doueiri , as we realize Lila is just an innocent young woman . Vahina Giocante makes a beautiful Lila , a girl that seems much older than her years reveal . Mohammaed Khouas is an enigmatic and serious Chimo . Karim Ben Haddou plays Mouloud , the man who misreads the relationship between Lila and Chimo . The film message seems to point that beauty is only skin deep and that appearances are deceiving . Mr . Doueiri shows he has the potential for giving his viewers a run for their money .
English massala	Not being a football fan , I postponed seeing this film . It was a mistake because it turned out to be a lot of fun . It's not great , but director Gurinder Chada , whose work I have admired , keeps things going at a nice pace . Perhaps the best reason for seeing this film is Parminder Nagra , who makes her character , Jes , something we can identify with . Also in the cast Keira Knightley and Jonathan Rhys-Meyers , as well as Juliet Stevenson who is a lot of fun in whatever film she's in . All in all , a fun time at the cinema , even though you don't understand a thing about football .
Friends	Some relationships between childhood friends endure the passage of time , as it's the case with Laura and Amelia , who as the film opens are seen as young girls . After some years they have met again as adults and their friendship has a different kind of meaning to both , if anything it is stronger than before . Whereas Amelia has found love and is graduating for a professional career as a therapist , Laura , on the oder hand , has found a job in a newspaper , but her love life leaves a lot to be desired . Nicole Holofcener , the director , takes us to meet these two women as they go through their lives in present day Manhattan . Having seen this film when it made its commercial debut , we decided to take another look after almost ten years of being released and we can report the film is still fresh and quirky as when we first saw it . The director , whose " Lovely and Amazing " was also a worthy successor , treats her subjects with a light touch and the result is a film that gives the viewer a good insight about human relations in a cinematic form . The best thing going for the film is lovely Catherine Keener , who is an asset no matter what she is playing . Ms . Keener seems to be a natural for the movies . The camera loves this actress who has a style of her own and who , in comedies such as this , makes perfect sense as her directors clearly capitalize on her uncanny sense of how to play the quirky characters in which she has excelled . Anne Heche , on the other hand , makes a perfect Amelia come true . Ms . Heche is a good actress that always brings something to the roles she plays . Amelia , the young woman in this film , is at a point in her life where she has to make decisions about her relationship with Frank , who clearly adores her , and her own career as a therapist . The supporting roles are basically the men in the two friends ' lives . There is Frank , who is living with Amelia . He wants her to commit and marry him , but she has doubts before she says yes . Todd Field makes a good impression as Frank . Bill , the video store clerk likes Laura , but feels betrayed when he hears a message Amelia has left on the answering machine where she calls him ugly ; he takes offense and decides to drop Laura . Kevin Corrigan is perfect playing this man . Finally there is Andrew , an old flame of Laura's who has broken up with her some time ago , but has remained friends . Liev Schreiber is good in this part . " Walking and Talking " shows a talented Nicole Holofcener at her best . The film shows us a director who knows a lot about the complicated balance of the relationship between two caring friends .
Miracle in Lampedusa	This is the first film by Emanuele Crialese that has played locally , I think , or if any other has come in , it hasn't played commercially . The film is beautifully done with the fantastic backdrop of the Italian island of Lampedusa . This is a very arid place with almost no vegetation at all . The heat , obviously , must be oppressive , as the sun punishes this land and its people constantly to the point that children act as savages , as proven by the opening scenes . Among these rascals are Pasquale and Filippo , the sons of Grazia , the housewife at the center of the story . She lives in her own world . She is a rebel and a free soul . Grazia's actions are seen as madness by her husband Pietro and his mother , who lives next door . It is the classic family from forgotten towns such as this , where everyone knows everyone's business . The only solution for Grazia's problems is to send her away to a Milan institution that perhaps will turn her into a vegetable . Her only sin is to be different , therefore , she is the town's eccentric . All her neighbors think she's a lunatic . By Grazia withdrawing from the world , she appears to be a maladjusted person , which she isn't . She just loves to be free ; swimming is her passion and her life , running around the island in her scooter is another form of freedom from the realities of home . In trying to escape her lot in life , Grazia discovers how much her son Pasquale loves her . The final scenes after the disappearance with the search party on the beach are typical of the same society that condemned Grazia but never took steps to show her any kindness . The miracle that occurs at the end is that perhaps Pietro realizes that in spite of his wife's apparent madness he has found how much he really needs her . This is a simple story told with a sure hand by the director , who also wrote the screen play . Valeria Golino , who has spent a few years in minor roles in Hollywood , is very effective as Grazia . She shows a great range of emotions under the sure direction of Crialese . It is amazing no one has made anything worth of Ms . Golino's talent , or that she has been forgotten by the Italian cinema ; or that no one has come to her with projects such as this film . As her husband , Vincenzo Amato is very effective . Also , Francesco Casisa as Pasquale makes a splendid appearance . This young man with the proper guidance has the potential of making a big splash in the Italian cinema .
Pinot Grand Fenwick	In the tiny Duchy of Grand Fenwick , the proud producers of the Pinot Grand Fenwick , have learned how a cheap imitation of this great wine is being produced in America . Horror of horrors , a plan of action must be drawn . The Prime Minister , Count Rupert Mountjoy , has a clever scheme : Why not declare war to the Americans , figuring they will come with enough money for the reconstruction of the country . Even the monarch , the Great Duchess Gloriana admires the plan that has been put together . Tully Bascombe , is asked to lead the invading force of about twenty soldiers , but not having its own air force , they must resort to take a French ship to New York , which happens to be deserted at the moment they disembark because of a drill being performed in the city . The force led by Bascombe ends up in Professor Kokintz lab , where he , and his daughter , who is his assistant , are taken prisoners when they mistake Kokintz's experiment with a bomb . The men , in triumph , take the same ship back to Fenwick . This delicious fable , directed by Jack Arnold , is a satire on how even small person can stand to bigger and powerful ones and make a point while carrying on the quest for respect and acceptance . The film lives thanks to the wonderful acting of Peter Sellers , who plays three different roles and steals the picture with his amazing take on all the characters . He reminds us of another British actor , Alec Guinness , who also played multiple characters in " Kind Hearts and Coronets " . Not having seen the film in many years , we found the DVD transfer quite enjoyable and it still holds quite an impact thanks to Peter Sellers and the rest of the cast and the inspired direction of Jack Arnold .
Sarah with an H	Director Stephen Marro's delightful short take about an actress ' revenge , was shown recently on cable . This piece , which in our opinion could have been based on former New York magazine critic John Simon , who was notorious for his scathing reviews . The issue Mr . Marro is trying to make is how those vitriolic comments can affect the people that receive them . Sarah Richardson wants to reason with John Grant , a critic that has given her a bad review in a recent stage production . They meet , talk and he maintains his view about how mediocre she was in the play , but there is a surprise Mr . Grant didn't count on . Never underestimate a disgruntled actress who feels she is right ! The cast is excellent , Mary Louise Parker and Jon Avner are amazing under Mr . Marro's direction .
The young lawyer	Arthur Kirkland is a young lawyer who realizes early on in his career that whatever he learned in school is different in real life . When we first meet Arthur he seems eager to help his clients . He soon realizes the legal system , as it's practiced in the court room , depends on who is judging the case , as there appears to be jaded judges who are blind to the justice he is seeking for his clients . This 1979 , directed by Norman Jewison , and based on a screen play by Barry Levinson and Valerie Curtin , offers another look at the way our legal system works . The young Arthur clearly gets his fill of what is wrong with the system early on as he sees an innocent man go to jail for something he didn't do . That same man , plays a pivoting role in the story when he becomes so frustrated that he can't take it anymore . The same goes for the black cross dresser , who puts his trust in Arthur , only to feel betrayed when Arthur sends a colleague to defend him , but obviously , that lawyer couldn't care less what happens to the poor man . The film is engrossing because of the work of a young , and eager , Al Pacino , who as Arthur Kirkland , is basically , the whole movie . Mr . Pacino , under Mr . Jewison's guidance did a wonderful job in getting under Arthur Kirkland's skin . This was one of the best performances this talented actor gave early in his career . The rest of the cast shows some actors that went on to bigger and better things . Craig T . Nelson , Christine Lahti , Jeffrey Tambor , Domnenic Chianese , and Larry Briggman , made good contributions to the success of the film . Some veteran pros like Jack Warden , John Forsythe , Lee Strassberg , Sam Levene , are also showcased in the film . " And Justice for All " is a satisfactory film worth a look because of Norman Jewison and Al Pacino .
Growing pains	Allan Moyle , the director of " New Waterford Girl " captures the right atmosphere of a small town in Nova Scotia . He shows us how the people live in this isolated area . The life of the small village , with all its local characters , is presented by Mr . Moyle in a way that affects us into feeling for these people in that barren place . The best thing going for this movie is the brilliant performance by Liane Balaban . She plays Moonie Pottie , a girl that wants to break away from the boredom of the town and go away to pursue her ambition . This young actress ' face registers a lot of emotions going on inside Moonie's mind . She knows the only chance for her to get out of the mediocrity in which she lives is to become pregnant because invariably , those fallen girls are sent away to have their children . Luckily for Moonie , she finds a friend in Lou , the rebel American teen ager who arrives from the Bronx to hide away with her mother and young brother . This is the only part that doesn't make much sense , but it's a diversion to the story that otherwise would be too confined to just the locals . Lou gives Moonie a confidence that the latter one didn't know she had . Moonie grows up helped by her friendship with the tomboyish Lou , who is too wise for her young age . Tara Spencer-Nairn does a wonderful job in recreating Lou Benzoa . The film takes a while to click with the viewer , but it will stay in his mind for days after having seen it . The Pottie family is presided by Francis and Cookie . As played by Nicholas Campbell and the always excellent Mary Walsh , this family shows an inner strength , even at times of great crisis . Andrew McCarthy is also seen briefly as the teacher that wants a better life for Moonie , who inspires her to break away from this small town . Cathy Moriarty plays , yet another , boxer's wife . She has nothing to do in the film . This small movie will charm those willing to take a trip guided by the sure direction of Allan Moyle .
The shrink	Lawrence Kasdan's " Mumford " is a film that could have been done by Frank Capra in another time . Mr . Kasdan created an enigmatic man , Dr . Mickey Mumford , who appears in the small town out of nowhere . He quickly goes to become an indispensable person in the community with his no-nonsense approach to psychiatry . Mumford touches the lives of the people that come to him seeking his advice . Among the people he helps , there is Sofie Crisp , a young woman suffering from depression and some sort of fatigue syndrome that renders her unfit to live her life to the fullest . With Mumford's help , she begins her daily walks as she gains confidence and opens up to see what is out there . The film opens with a black and white sequence that is a fantasy being played in the mind of Henry . We realize it's only his mind wandering as he is not capable of doing what he dreams about . There is also the young millionaire who is one of the richest men in the country because his firm produces modems for computers and who doesn't care to show his eccentric side for all to see . Mumford's cover is finally revealed when an episode of the television program " Unsolved Mysteries " in which he is showcased . The town of Mumford , instead of condemning him , rallies in its support of a man that has done more in his humble way to help the community in spite of his deceit . " Mumford " is a delightful movie thanks to Loren Dean , who plays the title role . Mr . Dean does a wonderful work . Hope Davis is also a charming presence in the picture . The large supporting cast has some brilliant faces in it , Alfre Woodard , Jason Lee , Mary McDonnell , Pruitt Taylor Vance , Martin Short , Jane Adams , David Paymer , and Ted Danson , among them . The film's success belongs to Lawrence Kasdan whose brilliant take on a man who is a fake , but who has seen into the hearts of the people he has decided to settle in .
The insiders	Spike Lee achieves a great triumph in this studio sponsored film and shows why he is one of the best directors working today on his own , or in Hollywood . The film was written by Russell Gurwirth . The movie is hugely entertaining as Mr . Lee and Mr . Gurwirth take the viewer for a ride , that for all appearances involve what appears to be a bloody bank heist , but when all is said and done , it was something else , altogether . The first clue about what the " Steves " , as the bank robbers call one another , are trying to do , is how easy they gain access to the place . When everything is set in motion , one expects the bandits to start eliminating the hostages , as one is accustomed to expect from other films of the genre . Right after the robbers stage the plan , the police is set in motion to keep the bad guys surrounded so they can't escape without being apprehended . The man who is on call when the news is learned is Det . Keith Frazier , a man who has had problems within the force . He is assisted by his fellow Det . Bill Mitchell . Although they are the ones in charge , another man , a Capt . Darius is the man who is monitoring the action from a van . Det . Frazier clashes with Capt . Darius , who has no clue about what the others are doing . It's at this time that the bank president , Arthur Case , an older man who is well connected comes to the powerful Madeline White to ask for her help in securing important documents that are in a safe deposit box in the vault of the bank . Madeline White uses her influence with the Mayor , to get permission to negotiate with the robbers . It's at this moment where our suspicions are confirmed about the nature of why the heist . Denzel Washington makes a great Det . Frazier . He is at the same time a man who uses his intuition to try to solve the case , without much success . Jodie Foster makes a valuable contribution as Madeline , a ruthless woman who knows a few secrets about her clients . Clive Owen doesn't have much to do . Christopher Plummer is Arthur Case , the man who thought he knew it all and whose past comes back to haunt him . William Dafoe and Chiwetel Ejiofer , are seen in minor roles . Ultimately , Spike Lee pulls all the strings in moving this story in ways only he could do . The viewer is in for a treat .
Uncle Vanya in the Outback	Michael Blakemore's " Country Life " is loosely based on Chekhov's " Uncle Vanya " . Mr . Blakemore , a distinguished theater director , and actor , takes us to his native Australia , where he sets the story circa 1919 . It's a time where Aussie soldiers are returning home from WWI . We watch as Alexander Voysey , who has been living abroad , returning with his new wife , Deborah , to the estate in the country where his daughter and brother-in-law are living . Voysey is a snob who seems out of place in the house that has seen better days . His young wife Deborah , is with him because obviously she needs a meal ticket . Uncle Jack , has stayed behind doing all the thankless jobs , helped by his niece Sally , who is Alexander's daughter . We also see the free thinking doctor Max Askey , whose ideas clash with the conservative town folks . It seems inevitable , but Deborah and the doctor develop a passion for one another that comes to nothing , while young Sally who secretly loves the older doctor , doesn't stand a chance with him . Ultimately , the Voyseys have had it with the place and when Alexander's plans to sell the estate to neighbors fail because Jack's protests and animosity toward his brother-in-law , who by now , we realize is a fake , decide to go west in search of greener pastures . " Country Life " is a film where we draw parallels between its Russian model and the Aussie setting . All the elements of Chekhov are there beautifully staged and directed by Michael Blakemore . The distinguished cast acts well as an ensemble under Mr . Blakemore's direction . Googie Withers makes a good contribution as the crusty cook Hannah , who knows all the secrets of the family . This is a different " Uncle Vanya " , but worth a visit because of the excellent work of Mr . Blakemore .
By Strauss !	Julien Duvivier , the great French director , had a brief career in Hollywood during WWII . Alas , the movies he was involved with , didn't fare as well as the ones he did in France . It must have been difficult for a man of his stature to try his hand at film making in America because of problems with artistic control of his pictures and the way things were done in Hollywood . " The Great Waltz " was a fine example of what M . Duvivier could do . This glorious 1938 MGM film was one of the most loved films of that period . Not only that , but even if the subject matter , Johann Strauss ' life was not accurate , at least his great music is heard in the film . The exquisite art direction Cedric Gibbons gave the picture and the beautiful costumes from Adrian made this a favorite of the movie going public of that time . The life of the struggling musician who had a lot of talent , but whose music was a departure from what has been heard in Vienna before him , was something movies loved to tell . Whether or not this was a true account of the composer's life , it's still a visually rich film . Fernand Fravey as Strauss gives a good performance . Luise Ranier makes the suffering and self-sacrificing Poldi , one of her best creations . The true star of the film though , is Milizia Korjus , who as the gorgeous soprano Carla Donner steals the show with her singing and her looks . Hugh Herbert , Alma Kruger , Curt Bois , and the rest of the cast do great work for Julien Duvivier . " The Great Waltz " is a film that's not seen often these days and it's a shame because it's an excellent excuse for going back to that period and the great music Strauss gave to the world .
Class distinction	One of the things playing under the surface of " My Summer of Love " is the disparity in class and privilege between Mona and Tamsin . When we first meet them , Tamsin tells Mona she has been expelled from school . As a rich girl bored and with nothing to do , Tamsin accepts Mona as a pretty object , but we know from the beginning nothing is going to come about their love for one another . Rather , it appears that love is what Mona feels for the rich girl , not the other way around . Paul Pavlikowsky's take on the Helen Cross ' novel makes for an interesting film that on the surface seems to be an idyllic love between two teen age girls , when in reality no one seems to see the cruelty that Tamsin exerts in the more naive Mona . Tamsin lies about a sister without no shame ; that same sister appears at the last moment in the film to ask Mona to return what she perceives as a stolen blouse , humiliating Mona even more . After all , Tamsin is going back to yet another school for rich girls while Mona has to stay in the small village with a broken heart that will not heal . Tamsin , in retrospect is a cool and calculating young woman who has no scruples or much less feels remorse for leading Mona to believe they will stay together forever . The third main character of the story is the enigmatic Phil , Mona's brother . He does a complete change by joining an evangelical sect and he has left the pub go out of business . Phil is another troubled soul that has no problem at the end renouncing his ties to the religious group that has taken over his pub , and his life . While Phil seems to care for his sister Mona , he is a distant man , in spite of his newly found religiosity . Where he should have been kind and loving , he grows distant and into himself . The three main characters in " My Summer of Love " are well drawn . Natalie Press gives a fine account of Mona , the more naive of the two girls . She is an unsophisticated girl who has no social graces and is completely dazzled by the more savvy Tamsin . Emily Blunt , a beautiful young actress is perfect as Tamsin , a manipulator , who will have Mona believe that she truly cares for her , when in reality , she is only amusing herself while confined to the summer house in the country . Paddy Considine does a good job as the sullen Phil , the man who finds religion and then abandons it . The film , under the fine direction of Mr . Pavlikowsky needs the viewer's attention to see the nuances under the story unfolding in front us .
A murder in Buenos Aires	This film bears the same name as Francisco Lombardi's excellent Peruvian movie . That's all the similarity , because this Argentine film depicts a crime and its investigation . The movie credits two persons with the direction : Beda Ocampo Feijoo and Maria Cecilia Barreras . The opening scenes take us on trip along the river to a fashionable district where the owner of a magazine is surprised in the bathroom and shot to death . Just as the police detective in charge of the investigation arrive , so does the lawyer of the publication , and the brother of the victim . The inspector questions the men , but releases them . Right after that , the magazine is in turmoil . Clara , who stands to lose the job , along with the other journalists , seeks the lawyer to offer her help in whatever she might be useful , something that will play in the plot , later on . The investigation into the murder of the wealthy man opens a can of worms as many people stand to gain by the disappearance of Abelardo . In a way , fans of this genre will probably figure out the outcome by the clues one is given at the beginning . The best thing in the film is Luis Luque , who makes an impressive , and cool detective . Malena Soldan , Mauricio Dayub , Luis Brandoni , Alejandra Flechner and Gaston Pauls do good work among the supporting players .
Monsters under ground	Not having seen this enormously pleasing film before , we decided to take a look at it recently . Ron Underwood has done the impossible with the talented people under his direction . He has created a film that takes us back to earlier years when this genre was more popular . It's Mr . Underwood fortune to have been able to get an intelligent script that scares our wits , and at the same time , it gives the viewer ninety minutes of wonderful escape . One can't think of another pair playing the leading roles in " Tremors " , but Kevin Bacon and Fred Ward . These talented performers bring a lot of energy to the film . The goofy duo of Valentine and Earl are well balanced . They are totally credible as the resourceful men that are able to get rid of the gigantic menaces crawling under the surface of the Nevada desert , so sensible to any movement on the surface that they will destroy everything in their way . The rest of the performers are good . Michael Gross and Reba McEntire play Burt and Heather , a couple with so much powerful weapons at their disposal , they are invincible . Watching this film without any expectations paid up in more ways than we thought would be possible . As someone mentioned in a comment , this film has all the potential of becoming a cult film , as it will be a favorite of many fans of these types of movies .
Death and the poet	If not for anything else , Eliseo Subiela's " El lado oscuro del corazon " will introduce the casual viewer to the poetry of Mario Benedetti , Juan Gelman , Oliverio Girondo as well as the director's own compositions . Eliseo Subiela is one of the best Argentine directors of all times , as this 1992 film clearly demonstrates . Oliverio , the taciturn man we meet at the beginning of the film , takes us on a trip to Montevideo where , one night , he meets the exotic Ana in a night club where prostitutes gather . It's clear the mutual attraction Oliverio and Ana feel toward one another the moment they set their eyes on each other . It appears that , at last , Oliverio has found the elusive woman who can fly with him . These two souls make love , but Ana , being a hooker , reminds Oliverio his time is up . What is even better , Oliverio , an amateur poet , meets his match in Ana , who loves and knows the texts he recites to her as a way of introduction . Oliverio has had his share of lovers . We see him making love to beautiful women , but none of them qualify as the one to fulfill his life . In a comic touch , Oliverio's bed is divided in two and when he finds a woman is not for him , he rings a bell in the night table and the other half of the bed opens up and the victim falls to an abyss . In order to survive , Oliverio free lances as well as write poetry which he and his two buddies , Erik and Gustavo trade for food to the friendly restaurant owner who loves to recite the poems to his fiance . Oliverio is seen walking at night , as well as when he travels to Montevideo when he feels the urge to see Ana , and has long debates with a woman clad in black who is Death personified . One thing is clear , Oliverio can't have Ana , as she cleverly reminds him . Ana can't afford to be too generous with anyone . Ana obviously loves Oliverio , but she has other priorities that are only revealed at the end of the film . One of the best sequences in the film involves an erotic art exhibit by Erik that is not to be believed . Dario Grandinetti , the great Argentine actor , plays Oliverio with equal parts of charm and mystery . Mr . Grandinetti makes an invaluable contribution to the success of the film . He is the main reason for watching this forgotten film that is full of poetry and magic . Sandra Ballesteros is seen as Ana . Ms . Ballesteros is an equal match to Mr . Grandinetti . Nacha Guevara plays Death with panache . Ms . Guevara , who is one of the best cabaret and performance artists of Argentina , is a huge talent that Mr . Subiela utilizes to the best results in the movie . As Oliverio's buddies , Andre Melancon and Jean Pierre Reguerraz are perfect . The popular music by Mario Clavel , Osvaldo Montes , Chico Novarro and Fito Paez blend perfectly in the movie's atmosphere . The dark cinematography by Hugo Colace adds another dimension in our enjoyment of the film . Ultimately , this is Eliseo Subiela's triumph in a movie that is not only beautiful to look at , but to listen to the great poetry the director brings to it for our pleasure .
Atonement	Director Asif Kapidian's " The Warrior " just arrived to this city in its commercial run . This is a film that will surprise many viewers , nor only for its splendid beauty , but for the way the director has created the right atmosphere in which to tell his story . The amazing cinematography by Roman Osin , is well worth the price of admission . The musical score by Dario Marianelli enhances the action tremendously . We are taken to a place in Northern India , in the Rajastan , where a feudal lord is seen at the beginning of the movie receiving payment from his tenants . As one poor peasant can't pay , the ruthless man instructs his head henchman to kill the man by beheading him . The warrior , after he gets home , has a change of heart , as he realizes the enormity of his crime . The warrior and his teen aged son , embark in a trip to the mountains to get away from the feudal lord , but fate intervenes in that his former partners in crime finds the young man . These men take him to face the cruel lord , who orders him to be killed . The warrior , in the crowd witnesses his own son's death . What follows is a trip to the mountains , alone , where the former warrior meets a young boy along the way who wants to stay with him . They form a bond , until the following avengers catch up with their old partner and there's a showdown . At the end , the former outlaw finds some sense of serenity by staying with his son's friend and her family , where he is welcome . " The Warrior " is a film of rare beauty where great vistas of India , going from the arid locales of the beginning of the movie change drastically as the warrior goes to the Indian Himalayas , in sharp contrast with what the film has shown before . Irfan Khan plays the title role well under the direction of Mr . Kapadian . This is a film that clamors to be discovered , as it will not disappoint because of the remarkable work Asif Kapadian has achieved with this movie .
Insomnia	Nick Willing's thriller " Close your eyes " came as a total surprise as all I had read about the film was negative . Not only it is a mystery , but it keeps you engrossed in every twist and turn . This is the story of an American analyst , Dr . Michael Strother , who is working underground in London , treating patients who want to quit smoking . The visuals of the opening credits and the session with detective Janet Losey , are done with a cinematic sense that shows a lot of style from the creative team behind the director . This is a film that keeps the viewer engrossed in all what is happening on screen . There's never a dull moment as everything evolves in a logical and intelligent manner . The acting is flawless . The casting of Goran Visnjic , as Dr . Strother is excellent , as this actor makes one feel as though what is happening to him is a reflection of his failure in America . With his good dark looks and accent , he creates a complex character without much effort , or so it seems . As the detective , Shirley Henderson is equally good as the detective that will not give up in the pursuit of the evil force behind what has been done to the little girl at the center of the story . The rest of the cast is equally good . Fiona Shaw's Catherine Lebourg is equally spooky as she is mysterious . Paddy Considine as Elliot , is a key in solving the case . The film is for lovers of the genre . It won't disappoint .
Christmas past	While there are many versions of this film , this MGM classic stays in one's mind as probably the most atmospheric . Edwin L . Marin , the director , was lucky enough to get the great Reginald Owen in one of his best performances . The movie is a favorite because it reflects the spirit of the Charles Dickens book . The London of the time where the story takes place is lovingly recreated by the studio and its art department . Cedric Gibbons ' contribution to most of the pictures from his era is tremendous . It shows in this version with great detail . The performances are excellent . Reginald Owen as Scrooge is one of the best things this movie has going for itself . He embodies one's own image of this mean old man who is transformed one Christmas night for the better . Gene Lockhart and Kathleen Lockhart are perfect as the happy Cratchits , intent in having a great time with their children . They are poor , but they live in a happy environment because the love for their children . Ann Rutherford makes a beautiful Ghost of Christmas Past . Leo G . Carroll is amazing as the ghost of Jacob Marley . This movie will live forever because it is a joy to watch .
The pianist	" Five Easy Pieces " was one of the most revered films of the 1970s . It was the film that showed audiences what Jack Nicholson could do , after having worked for many years in movies that were seen only by real cinephiles , but not by a wider audiences . Not having seen the film in a long time , we decided to watch it when it showed on cable recently . The only thing is the copy we saw was not anamorphic in format , which on key scenes almost shows a blank screen while the characters talk off camera ! Bob Rafelson and Carole Eastman created a screen play that dealt with existential themes , a rarity in the American cinema . Mr . Rafelson was at the height of his creative period , something that later projects seem to contradict the promise he showed at the time . Bobby Dupea , the main character of the story , is a complex individual who has left a life of privilege and culture behind to become an oil rig worker and getting away from his previous life . At the time we meet him , he is involved with Rayette , a simple woman who loves him , but one can see how different they are . That contrast comes more obvious when Bobby goes back home and meets Catherine , his brother's fiance , who is a musician and seem to be more attuned with Bobby than the simple minded Rayette . " Five Easy Pieces " was a film that showcased the enormously talented Jack Nicholson doing some interesting work . The measure of his acting ability is seen about half way in the movie as Bobby , Rayette , and the two lesbian hitchhikers have stopped at a diner . Bobby's meal order request creates a match of words in which Mr . Nicholson shows what he is capable of doing . The film concludes with a puzzling scene , as Bobby and Rayette are heading back home . We watch them stopping at a gas station and little prepares us for what happens next . In a way , we have seen all along the film how restless Bobby has become and it's clear that in spite of his being with Rayette , she will never understands how to make him happy at all . The reason for watching " Five Easy Pieces " is Jack Nicholson . His character is the most interesting one in the film and he does an excellent job in creating the tension behind this complex man he portraits . Karen Black's Rayette is annoying at times because of her whining . Susan Anspach comes out better playing Catherine . Some other familiar faces in the cast are , Sally Struthers , Ralph White , Lois Smith , Billy Green Bush and Fannie Flagg . " Five Easy Pieces " is one of the best films of that decade .
Boys will be boys . . . .	I was a bit scared about what kind of treatment Chris and Paul Weitz had given the great novel by Nick Hornby . I have to report they did a great job in bringing it to the screen with the help of the screenwriter , Peter Hedges III . It's amazing what they have accomplished in translating the book to the screen and not lose focus in doing so . A great many Hollywood brains should take note of what was accomplish in this film . Hugh Grant strikes the right amount of hipness , confusion and complete lack of responsibility in his interpretation of Will . He is an actor that brings the right attitude in playing a man about London looking for women , no matter where . He's a prowler looking for women who will fall prey to his charms . Mr . Grant is just perfect for this role . The biggest surprise though , was the amazing debut of Nicholas Hoult , who just bowled us over as Marcus , the " boy " of the title . This young actor has a great career ahead of him if the people behind him will steer him into the right vehicles because he is a natural . He gives Mr . Grant a run for his money . The chemistry of their time together on screen is basically what was on the book while we were reading it . Toni Collette plays another mother . Again , her interpretation of Fiona was on target . Rachel Weisz adds beauty to the film as Rachel . Someone should take a good look at this gorgeous woman and perhaps give her and Hugh Grant another vehicle where they can shine once again .
Blindness	" Bright Victory " came as a total surprise . The film is not seen as much as it should , because of its positive message . Mark Robson directed with an eye to detail . " Bright Victory " was adapted by Robert Bruckner and has a pleasant music score by Frank Skinner . In spite of taking place during WWII , the movie seems timeless right now because of the Iraqi conflict . We are shown an Army hospital where the young soldiers are seen rehabilitating and learning new skills for their permanent disabilities . The wounded men we see in the Army facility at Valley Forge , Pa . , are being treated because of their blindness as a result of wounds received in combat . For a 1951 film , " Bright Victory " , was light years ahead since the young G . I . s we see in the hospital have to come to terms with the fact they will not be able to see again in their lives . It's a credit to its director and screen writer to present this new reality the soldiers are going through with compassion and dignity . A great performance from Arthur Kennedy , one of the best actors of that era , makes this movie appealing . Peggy Dow , as the compassionate young woman who volunteers in entertaining the wounded soldiers , is a welcome presence in the film . Mr . Kennedy and Ms . Dow made the film even better because their no nonsense approach to the portrayal of these two souls that find one another in the worst possible circumstances . The movie also presents in smaller roles actors that went to have careers of their own . Will Geer , James Edwards , Jim Backus , Richard Egan , Murray Hamilton , Rock Hudson , and Jerry Paris play as part of the ensemble cast gathered for " Bright Victory " . This film is worth seeing because it shows us how some people overcome a terrible fate in a way we never thought possible .
Guilty by association	Robert Rossen enjoyed a distinguished career in Hollywood as a writer and a director . He always showed he had an eye for the language his characters spoke and he also had an eye for detail , as he shows in this movie . The main character is Johnny O'Clock , a man that is deemed guilty by the detective that is trying to solve a case . Inspector Koch is so determined that Johnny knows about the mystery , that he pursues him without realizing this man appears guilty , but only by association . Johnny is a man that loves the good life . His association to the casino owner Marchettis , will be his downfall . Between these two men is Nelle , who is married to Marchettis , but doesn't want to let go of Johnny , with whom she's had an affair . To make matters worse , Johnny is in the middle of the mysterious murder of Harriet , the hatcheck girl he befriends at the casino . The cinematography is excellent . There is a scene where Johnny offers a cigarette to Nancy , the sister of the murdered Harriet , and we see how the light shines in her face that heightens the emotion of the moment . Dick Powell , as Johnny is properly dapper and vulnerable . He is a man that has seen it all , yet , he ends up falling for Nancy , in whom he sees a kind soul who loves him . Lee J . Cobb , an actor's actor , plays the Inspector Koch chewing his cigars and asking questions that Johnny doesn't care to answer . The female roles are well played by Evelyn Keyes . This was an actress that had such a sophisticated look that is not hard to imagine why the director chose her to play Nancy . Equally excellent was Ellen Drew . She is Nelle , who can't let go of Johnny , at the expense of losing all she has by her marriage to Marchettis . Thomas Gomez is Marchettis , the casino owner . Mr . Gomez was properly oily and sly , as in most of the roles he played in films . This movie was a discovery . Although a bit dated , one can see the impact it might have had in its day thanks to Mr . Rossen's brilliant direction and amazing cinematography .
Return to the past	" An Angel for May " came unexpectedly the other day on cable . We hadn't heard about this film , at all , as we don't remember it having played locally . This English film , directed with style by Harley Cokeliss , proved to be a surprise and we recommend it for young audiences and their parents as it will provide quality entertainment with a good story to boot ! The film opens in England after an air raid during WWII , in which a young girl is calling for help , although we don't see her . Right after that , we are in the present time following Tom , a young boy who lives with his mother in a rural community after the parents separated . Tom is a boy in turmoil by what's going on . As a result , Tom goes on his bicycle all to the nearby countryside where he had spotted a dog that seems to be lost . His search brings him to an old ruined structure where he finds the dog . Little does he know that he is going to embark in an adventure he didn't bargain for . In fact , this ruined placed used to be a farm that holds a mystery and involves Tom and a childhood friend . Not wanting to give out anything else , let's say that Tom is completely surprised by what he discovers among the ruins . The closing sequence of the film was handled with great care by Mr . Cokeliss , as it involves Tom going to the old church trying to find out about the whereabout of someone dear to him . Tom's mind is put at ease when the kind Rosie comes to him as he is contemplating the names in a tomb in the church's cemetery . The scene is lovely and it finally puts Tom's mind at ease because he has deciphered the mystery of what he experienced . The two young actors , Matthew Beard and Charlotte Wakefield are wonderful in their roles . They are intelligent children and a delight to see . Any film that has Tom Wilkinson and Anna Massey in it can't be bad . Mr . Wilkinson does a great job in his short appearance . Anna Massey is lovely in that tender scene at the end of the film . Geraldine James , Julie Cox and Angeline Ball are seen in supporting roles . Congratulations to Harley Cokeliss for bringing this beautiful tale to the screen and we recommend it to anyone who is young at heart .
Mafiosi love movies too !	Elmore Leonard's books must be loved by film screen adapters . His characters translate very well from the written page to the moving picture . " Get Shorty " is one of Mr . Leonard's best stories and it gets a very good treatment in the hands of Barry Sonnenfeld , its director , with the help of Scott Frank , who adapted it for the screen . The casting of the movie was it's greatest asset . John Travolta is so cool as Chilli , the mafioso who loves movies ! In his scenes with Gene Hackman , he demonstrates what a good actor he is . On the surface , he appears to do nothing ; he works with an economy that is very hard to imitate . Granted , after Mr . Travolta's amazing appearance in Pulp Fiction , this was a confirmation and validation of his talent . It was surprising , since I didn't remember his appearance on the movie , to watch actor James Gandolfini , prior to his recent fame . He plays a stuntman turned wise guy . Mr . Gandolfini must have gone through a great dental cosmetic transformation , unless he was made up to look very ugly , as Bear , in the film . I have greatly admired his work before his TV series , as a fine character actor , which he demonstrates here the potential he had and was not discovered until much later . Delroy Lindo is also excellent as one of the bad guys in the film . This actor , who is as great in films as in the theater , deserves much better . He is a man that always gives an honest performance . Not being a Danny DeVito fan , I must confess that he was very restrained here . He can do very good work with the right director behind him , as he shows playing the egotistical actor , Martin Weir . Also excellent , Dennis Farina . It's unfortunate he doesn't get better choices because he is always very effective in whatever he plays . In this film , he is hysterical as Ray " Bones " Barboni . Rene Russo , as the bit player with a heart of gold , is good . What can be said of Gene Hackman that hasn't already been said ? His Harry Zimm is so accurate that we believe he is this sleazy Hollywood producer . Mr . Hackman is a consummate performer who keeps getting better all the time . If I had enjoyed the film the first time , looking at it a second time was a revelation .
On the air	Garrison Keillor , a man who has been involved with radio in rural America , created " A Prairie Home Companion " , a program that was heard in the Midwest by the folks that appreciated this type of down to earth entertainment with excellent music by local artists , not too different from what the Ole Opry House offered . Mr . Keillor teamed with a director who has distinguished himself for bringing multi character entertainment , Robert Altman , who proved he knew how to set this kind of story when he directed the much better " Nashville " . " A Prairie Home Companion " is much more simple in narrative terms than " Nashville " , which had a loose story line in its narrative . Garrison Keiller's contribution to the film is to present this slice of Americana directed to simple folks that tuned to his programs on a weekly basis . Alas , it is the end for the program , airing from the majestic Fitzgerald theater . A group of all time favorites are to take place in it . We meet the Johnson sisters , a pair of older singers , Yolanda and Rhonda , who have been around for a while . We also see Dusty and Lefty , a pair of singing cowboys , and the other acts that lean toward gospel and country and western fare . Throughout the picture , a sad woman is seen moving around the theater and the stage . We gather she is not real because of the ethereal clothes she wears until her secret is revealed . She is an innocent victim of the program . There is also the head of security , Guy Noir , a clownish figure , typical of the environment and also the figure of the Axman , who has come to put an end to the broadcast from the Fitzgerald theater . This melancholic look at a form of entertainment that has fallen out of favor , is greatly reproduced by Mr . Altman . Garrison Keillor serves as the master of ceremonies for the radio broadcast . Meryl Streep and Lily Tomlin are excellent as the Johnson sisters . Lindsay Lohan appears as the daughter of Yolanda , a confused girl who loves to write songs and poetry about death and suicide . Woody Harrelson and John C . Reilly are perfect as the bawdy cowboy singers with a fabulous musical , and funny , musical number . Virginia Madsen , a fine actress , has little to do . Ditto for Kevin Kline and Tommy Lee Jones , two of our best actor working in movies today . Where Mr . Altman succeeds is in capturing the atmosphere of a radio program in the making . This is a nostalgic trip back to another gentle era that is dying a slow and painful death .
Grapefruit anyone ?	This was the film that made James Cagney a star . In a surprise move , Warner Brothers made him switch roles with Edward Woods , and the end is history . James Cagney , who made a career out of playing tough guys , appeared as Tom Powers , a young man who loved the company of all the Irish wise guys in his area . The film starts with a message from the studio about one is going to witness as it wanted to point to a social problem , and it ends with a sort of disclaimer about what was seen a social issue at the core of the society of those years . Tom Powers rises to the top of the crime scene when Prohibition went into effect . There was a lot of money to be made smuggling liquor and having pals like Paddy Ryan , who controlled the trade . Helped by his inseparable Matt Doyle , they make their mark as people that could get away with what the crimes they were committing . Tom Powers inspired violence because he was ruthless in the way he wanted to do things . The film , made before the arrival of the infamous Hays Code , gets away with showing the morality of the gangster on the scene and the women they went after . Tom's relationship with Kitty , and the cruelty he shows toward her , is something that the creators got away with . Tom's involvement with Gwen Allen , the beautiful blonde , is full of sexual suggestions . William Wellman , proved he was the right man for this movie . He brought the best in James Cagney and the rest of the cast . Unfortunately , the dialog sounds dated . The heavy make-up favored in those days looks funny of the men , especially . Mae Clarke , who is not even credited in the film , has one of the best moments of her film career in the movie . James Cagney and Edward Woods do some excellent work together . The sexy Jean Harlow is lovely to look at in this film as it brings her beauty to new heights . Donald Cook , Joan Blondell , and the rest of the supporting cast contribute to make one of the best films of the gangster genre .
Mobsters and thespians	Woody Allen had the inspired idea to let another actor played what would have been a tailor-made he wrote for himself . As a director , Mr . Allen has always done well . Of course , there are exceptions , but in " Bullets over Broadway " show an inspired Mr . Allen doing what he does best . This comedy , written in collaboration with Douglas McGrath , is a happy take on a situation that only this director would have been able to create . We are shown two different worlds . In one , the roaring twenties gangsters have the control of all illegal activities in Manhattan . On the other , we meet an idealistic writer , David Shayne , who wants to have his play produced . Enter the capo Nick Valenti . This man has enough money to buy his current paramour , the dizzy Olive Neal , whatever her little heart desires . Thus , the vehicle chosen is the drama David has written . Thus begins a frantic comedy of errors where the theater and the mob intermingle with funny results . We watch as the play gets produced on Broadway how the different factions come together , each one with a different idea as to what to do with the play . The cast is first rate . John Cusack , as the ambitious playwright , does some of his best work in showing what this man is going through . Dianne Wiest , one of the most accomplished actresses around , makes a splash with her take on Helen Sinclair , the first lady of the American theatah ! Jennifer Tully is excellent as Olive Neal , the girl from the provinces with high aspirations , but no talent . Chaz Palmintieri , as Cheech , the mobster that understands what's wrong with the play is hilarious . The late Joe Venturelli was born to play his mobster Nick Valente . Jack Warden is perfect as the producer . Tracey Ullman and Jim Broadbent are simply marvelous as the cast members of the play in production . Mary Louise Parker and Harvey Fierstein , Rob Reiner are also seen in smaller roles . " Bullets over Broadway " , as most of Mr . Allen's films has a great musical score of the jazz songs of the era . Mr . Allen , in taking a seat behind the camera , delivers one of his best and funniest films to date .
The trek in the mountains	After a diamond dealer's home is attacked by a man who wants the precious stones , the robber takes the dealer's wife hostage in a violent confrontation with the police and FBI in San Francisco . The agent in charge , Warren Stantin , gives the diamonds to the , almost invisible , man , who flees by boat taking the loot with him . The only way to beat the FBI and the people that are following him is to head north to Canada . Thus begins this action thriller that uses the Canadian Rockies as the backdrop for setting this story about a determined FBI enforcer following a deadly assassin who has left a trail of killings as he goes into the mountains . Stantin is told the only way to find his man is by engaging Jonathan Knox , a man who knows the area , to guide him . Knox , who is reluctant , at first , realizes the man might be part of a group his girlfriend , Sarah , is taking on an extended trek of the mountains . Stantin and Knox begin to fight as they have different ideas about what to do , but they end up bonding , as they understand what is at stake . This pair endures some of the worst weather conditions in their quest for the assassin , and in finding the diamonds that the outlaw wants to sell to an unscrupulous man in Vancouver . Roger Spottiswoode directed this action filled movie with sure hand . The screen play is by Harv Zimmel and Daniel Petrie , two men who know how to involve the viewer . Michael Chapman photographed the great outdoors with an eye on the dangerous aspects of the chase . Sidney Poitier is seen as Warren Stantin , an FBI agent that is restless in his pursue of the killer . This was Mr . Poitier's return to the movies after quite a number of years not being in front of a camera . Tom Berenger plays Knox , an outdoors man who is more at home in the mountains than among people . The surprise of the story is that we don't have a clue up to the middle of the film about who the real killer is . By positioning him among the group that Sarah is taking on a mountain expedition , adds a great deal of suspense to the story . The ending leaves a lot to be desired , but that's only a minor complaint about this action packed film .
Orpheus and Eurydice	If there is a film that deserves to be restored , " Orfeu Negro " , seems to be a logical choice . Judging by the copy we recently saw at New York's Film Forum , it shows how the Eastmancolor in which it was photographed , has faded . This is a film that is about color as seen in that photogenic city that is Rio de Janeiro , with its infinite cacophony of colors and sexuality at the time of carnival . Vinicius de Moraes play , " Orfeu do Carnaval " , served as the basis of inspiration for French director Marcel Camus and his co-writer , Jacques Viot , for the movie . Mr . Moraes adapted the Greek tragedy and transplanted it to Rio at the time of carnival . Nowhere in the world do people live just for those precious days of the year where everyone goes crazy during the annual ritual . The tragedy of Orpheus and Eurydice plays well against that backdrop . Orfeu , a tram conductor meets and falls in love with the beautiful an sweet Eurydice . Their love is doomed from the start because Orfeu has promised Mira he will marry her . They are seen prior to the fateful meeting going to register for a marriage license . Eurydice has a premonition that something will happen to her as a man dressed in a death costume and mask keeps following her , and at one point , he promises the young woman , he will return for her . In the meantime , Orfeu and Eurydice realize they are meant for one another . During the parade , Serafina , Eurydice's cousin exchanges places with her so she can stay home with the merchant marine boyfriend who has just arrived . Mira realizes the deceit and fights with Eurydice , who flees in horror , only to be follow by the Death figure . " Orfeu Negro " relied on unknowns for the main characters . The handsome Bruno Mello and the gorgeous Marpessa Dawn play the doomed lovers with conviction . Jean Bourgoin's camera loved them and they are photographed against the colors of the carnival and Rio . Lourdes Oliveira and Lea Garcia have good moments as Mira and Serafina , respectively and Jorge DosSantos is a natural as Chico . The other best thing in the film is the fabulous music by Luiz Bonfa , and Antonio Carlos Jobim . The songs and the music we hear in the soundtrack proved these two men were on the way to establish themselves as the best composers and in the case of Mr . Jobim , interpreter of their creations which will culminate with the triumph of the Bossa Nova period that was produced in Brazil at the time . Marcel Camus , ultimately , is the man to be congratulated because of his vision in finding beauty even in the favelas where most of the action takes place in capturing the color and sensuality of Rio de Janeiro during carnival .
Jilted !	Elliot , the CPA who is seen at the beginning of the picture , is a nerd . Don't get me wrong , he is a good nerd , and that's his own downfall . We watch him as Carloline Swann , his fiance , enters the church to stand next to him . Right there we realize these two are not made for one another . But have no fear , help is on the way . When the female minister asks the congregation if there is anyone who knows why this marriage can't proceed , a disheveled Bradley , who loves Caroline , comes forward to claim her for his own , leaving Elliot at the altar alone . The action then goes back in flashbacks as to how Elliot and Caroline met . Elliot has employed a temp , Cecil Mills , who is new to Manhattan and is late for work because she got lost . Cecil and Elliot seem to strike a much balanced match , but the beauty of Caroline , when she enters the office erases all traces of the mousy Cecil from Elliot's mind , as he doesn't finish asking her for a concert that night . As the preparations for the wedding get on the way , we realize Elliot and Caroline are not suited for one another . There is a hilarious gay wedding planner called Benson Hedges who will be in charge of the nuptials . Elliot in the end will be " the Baxter " of the title , because he is the man who will end up without getting the luscious Caroline . This wonderful comedy written and directed by Michael Showalter , came and went without much fanfare . It deserved much better , but it might have been the timing for its release that killed all the possibilities , as it came out right after " The 40 Year Old Virgin " had captured the movie going public's affections . This film , in comparison , is like a string quartet . Its heart is in the right place and Mr . Showalter got excellent acting from his ensemble cast . The director , like Woody Allen , just to mention another writer-creator , could have done better by staying behind the camera and casting his Elliot with another actor . Not that he doesn't do a good job , but perhaps he would have made Elliot a more lovable character than what comes in the screen . Michelle Williams steals the film . This actress is amazing . She may not have the meatiest role , but she is someone who the viewer will remember in spite of the beautiful , and talented Elizabeth Banks , who plays the two-timing Caroline . Justin Theroux is Bradley , the boyfriend who couldn't stay away . Zak Orth , Paul Rudd , Havilland Morris , and especially Peter Dinklage , are all wonderful in supporting roles . " The Baxter " is a delightful film thanks to the talented Michael Showalter who will no doubt will go far in whatever he decides to do next .
The Odyssey according to the Coen brothers	The Coen brothers are probably America's most creative minds in recent years as shown by the many projects they have brought for our benefit in order to entertain us . As with all creative persons , some films are extraordinary , some are excellent , and a few miss the mark . Having seen the film in its original release , we were fortunate to see again in DVD format recently . With " O Brother , Where Art Thou " , the Coens are at their best . Joel and Ethan Coen gathered one of the best group of performers to be in the film . George Clooney is seen as Ulysses , or Odysseus in the Greek epic , the man at the center of the action . Never has this actor been given this great opportunity and he has responded in ways that bowled us in watching him portray his character on the screen . To say this is his best work in the movies , is perhaps not saying anything at all ! Mr . Clooney can thank the Coens for trusting in him and giving him the role of his career . The rest of the cast is perfection . Most of the players are part of the Coen's troupe of talented players at their disposal to give life to their characters in film . John Turturro , John Goodman and Holly Hunter have been in other films by the brothers and shine in this movie . Tim Blake Nelson , Charles Durning , Del Pentecost , and Daniel Von Bargen , among others do extraordinary work for the Coen team . The musical score by T Bone Burnett is what makes this movie unique . The use of the music works so well with the film as does Mr . Clooney's singing . Roger Deakins ' cinematography also adds a rich texture to the story . A must see for all Coen brothers fans !
The escape artist	" The Secret Life of Walter Mitty " has aged well . The Technicolor hasn't faded , or turned pinkish , as the copy we recently saw on cable showed . The film , based on a James Thurber's short story , was made as a vehicle for Danny Kaye . Walter Mitty is a daydreamer . He escapes his monotonous life by imagining himself as the hero of the different situations that hold his attention . One day , Rosalind Van Hoorn sits next to him on the commuter train and things change for Mitty . He becomes a hunted man by some unsavory characters that want to recover the black book that was placed in his briefcase , without his knowledge . Thus begins the story about this wool gatherer who lives in an unreal world . The film is pure escapism . Walter Mitty is a small boy inside a grown man who is not too worldly . His engagement to Gertrude seems unreal because we don't see anything between them that might denote love . When Rosalind comes into his life , Walter begins a process of growing up and he falls for the glamorous woman . As played by Danny Kaye , this Walter Mitty , is at times puzzling . Mr . Kaye was an actor who relied on his mimic talents to create Mitty . Virginia Mayo makes an elegant Rosalind . Ann Rutherford is seen as Gertrude . Boris Karloff has some good moments as the zany Dr . Hollingshead . Fay Bainter is perfect as Walter's mom . The original songs by Silvia Fine , who was Mrs . Danny Kaye , are serviceable , but not great . The Goldwyn Girls are seen in the fashion show sequence . The direction by Norman Z . McLeod holds the picture together .
The erotic cook	Gregor , an enigmatic man with an overweight problem , has not had an easy life . From a young age , he was always treated with scorn as his appetite was something that interfered in his relations with others . One thing he knows is food . He is the star chef who cooks for a small select group that go into ecstasy every time they get a chance to occupy one of the three tables at his home that serve as his show place . The encounter with Eden , a married waitress at a caf in a park area , will change his life , as well as hers . Eden , married to a man that has not amounted to much and who serves as a dancing instructor to seniors that gather at the park , is not keen to the warning Gregor offers that she is about to be gypped out of payment from the four youths that ordered beer . Eden has a small child , Leoni , who is attracted to the kind Gregor . When Gregor decides to make a gourmet cake as a birthday gift to the child , disaster happens as the furious relatives gang on the cook for intruding . One thing does happen though , Eden bites into the rich chocolate of the cake on the sly and is instantly conquered by what Gregor has created . The problem is Eden can't get enough of what Gregor cooks . This translates into a better time in bed with her own husband . Michael Hofmann , the fine director of " Eden " . has created an interesting story about how a kind , but rejected member of our society can bring happiness to another human being and in doing so , getting to be hated for the transformation he does to a woman who has been completely bowled over by that person . The best in the film is the work of Josef Ostendorf and Charlotte Roche who are seen as Gregor and Eden , respectively . Mr . Ostendorf , is immensely appealing as the man with a great heart that is rejected by the society around him because of his corpulence . Ms . Roche does justice to Eden , the woman who brings the best in Gregor . An enjoyable film for lovers of the fine cuisine cooked for us by director Michael Hofmann .
Standing by	This satiric comedy from Cuba has a way to point out about that , in spite of years of hard times and sacrifice , things are just bad , if not worse than before . The last crop of films from that country seem to be critical to the situation there as in the case with Fernando Perez's " Suite Habana " and even in previous films by Mr . Tabio , notably , " Plaff " , " Guantanamera " , and " Fresa y chocolate " . This picture tackles , in a subtle way , some of the problems most Cubans face . In this case , it's the chaotic public transportation system in Cuba . Like anything coming from this type of cinema , what one is watching has a deeply different meaning for the locals , who can identify with a situation that appears to have no solution . Thus , we are taken to a remote small bus station where several people in need of transportation to all parts of the island have come to try to find means of getting to their destinations . Unfortunately , the local bus , based at the station , is being repaired and is soon evident that it's not going anywhere . In the meantime , the one bus that comes by , could only take one passenger , but as people try to storm the bus , it pulls out , leaving everyone stranded . Among the passengers one gets to know what motivates them to travel , as confidences are exchanged . The film makes one thing clear , and it is the Cuban character in accepting what comes their way and making the best out of the situation with humor . This society seems to make good of that saying about when God gives one lemons , one makes lemonade ! Among the performers in the film , Vladimir Cruz and Thaimi Alvarino , stand out . They play Emilio , an engineer , returning home to work in his father's plot of land as an agricultural laborer . Jacqueline , the pretty woman is trying to get to Havana where her fianc , a Spaniard , is arriving to marry her and is taking her back to Spain with him . We also get to see Rolando , a man that pretends to be blind in order to get a preferential treatment and go ahead of everyone else because of his condition . This situation is closely disputed by all the people that have been waiting for days without any hope of going anywhere . Jore Perugorria , a frequent collaborator of Mr . Taibo does good work as Rolando , the blind man . Talk about stoicism ! This is a tribute to the Cuban character ! Juan Carlos Tabio has directed with his usual flair , making this a winning film that will please anyone .
Pilgrim of Boston	" The Schocking Miss Pilgrim " a curiosity piece rarely seen these days . The film focus on the early women's right movement in the late 19th Century . Some of the ideas from that time still resonate these days , although there is no comparison . Director George Seaton delivers an entertainment movie that is enhanced by some unheard music by George and Ira Gershwin that is a delight to the ear . Betty Grable , a charismatic actress , portrays Cynthia Pilgrim , who has just finished a sort of secretarial school in which the use of the typewriter by a female was a breakthrough . Ms . Pilgrim is assigned to Boston where she is the first woman employed by a solid old firm that only employs male personnel . Soon Cynthia changes the perception of the office about women in the work place , winning the heart of her boss John Pritchard . The musical numbers are delightful without being flashy . Ms . Grable and Dick Haymes make some nice music together . Mr . Haymes with his melodic voice is one of the best things in the film . Also , Anne Revere and Gene Lockhart do excellent work in minor roles . This film should be seen more often because of the charismatic Ms . Grable and her costar Dick Haymes .
Predator	It's always gratifying to see an independent film that tackles a thorny subject , knowing well that any of the major studios won't dare to sponsor any director who is original and has a different way to present the story . Such is the case with Karen Moncrieff , a courageous new voice who is a first time director working with her own material . The idea that school is a safe haven for the innocent , is the subject to this film . Meghan who comes from a recently broken home can't accept the idea of her parents living apart . When in school , she looks up to a male role model , perhaps trying to fill that void in her life . At the beginning of the film Ms . Moncrieff steers us into thinking one way , when in reality she wants to tell us there is another side to the apparently kind man who takes Meghan under his wing . As we have witnessed by the recent wave of revelations of sexual impropriety in the Catholic Church , there are people that tend to go to jobs where they can prey on unsuspecting young minds , only to satisfy their own sick desires . The film is an eye opener for any impressionable young person into believing these people that befriend them don't have ulterior motives . Agnes Bruckner , as young Meghan makes an excellent appearance in the movie . Equally effective is David Strathairn , as the teacher . This actor is always a welcome addition to any film . Margaret Colin , as the mother , gives a painful characterization as Diane , who must make ends meet and has her feet on the ground . Frances Fisher , is the jaded teacher's wife who has seen her husband get involved with other young girls before . Ms . Moncrieff is a talent to watch .
Lucky man !	Having avoided Woody Allen's last two films , and because of recommendation from a friend , we decided to give Mr . Allen another chance . With this new film , Mr . Allen seeks to regain his loyal fans by taking them for a ride to England , where probably most of the money for the picture was found . The results are mixed , but not a total failure . It's by no means , the great movie most people are telling us it is . Chris Wilton is a lucky man ! As an old tennis player , he has had it . But like other men in his position , he finds a job in a tennis club as a pro . Since this is a place where the English upper classes go to , it's no surprise he meets Tom Hewett there . Chris has settled in London in order to take advantage of the cultural life there , something he has been lacking of . Tom is instrumental for introducing Chris , not only to the opera performance , but to his family , who accepts him as one of their own . Chris doesn't appear to be a social climber . It's just that he is at the right place , at the right time . The opening sequence of the movie sets the tone for what will follow . An explanation is heard , about how in a tennis game , the ball that bounces over the top of the net will determine who wins the match . In the ironic twist of fate at the end of the movie , something similar happens , although not related to a tennis match . Mr . Allen has gathered an interesting cast of mainly English actors that do good work under his direction . Jonathan Rhys-Meyers is Chris , the lucky man who charms the pants of the Hewetts . Scarlett Johansson , in one of the sexiest parts she has played , makes a valuable contribution as the American aspiring actress . Emily Mortimer plays Chloe , who becomes the wife of Chris and his entry ticket into a world of money . Brian Cox and Penelope Wilton are seen as the older Hewetts . Matthew Goode appears as Tom . In minor roles we see the wonderful Margaret Tyzack in a pivoting role and James Nesbitt as a police detective . One of the best things in the film are the wonderful opera arias by Donizetti , Bizet , Rossini , and Verdi . We are even treated to a song from Andrew Lloyd Webber's " The Lady in White " . Remi Adefarasin's cinematography serves the movie well . One can only hope Mr . Allen has left the neurotics back home in New York !
Tour de France	Sylvain Chomet , the incredible genius behind " Les Triplets de Belleville " has to be congratulated on this magnificent animated film that is so appealing . M . Chomet has created an anime film that rivals the best of the genre . One can relate to the characters of the film from the beginning , as this story will involve the viewer from the start . M . Chomet takes a look at a world through his wonderful characters that have an universal appeal . Mme . Souza and Bruno , her dog , are two of the best realized and life-like subjects one will ever find in this type of film . The brilliant sketches of the film will stay with the viewer long after one finishes watching it . M . Chomet talent lies in the fact that he gets us involved in the film without practically any dialog , just on the strength of the images we are watching . This is a film for everyone thanks to its creator , Sylvain Chomet .
Dr . Faust's wishes	Dr . Fausto , a Spanish famous oncologist , is seen at a hospital's cancer area when the story opens . This man , who has probably dealt with death during most of his life , appears to be oblivious to pain . When he leaves for the medical congress we see him at the edge of the track where he is waiting for the train , and one gets the impression he is about to jump , but no , he actually is horrified when he sees a young man playing on the opposite track as a train enters the station . As he arrives at his destination , he meets the oily Santos Valle , a man that comes out of nowhere to remind the doctor he operated him and removed his stomach . Fausto tries to elude this man at all costs , but as it happens , his taxi breaks down in a slum area and guess who is conveniently passing by ? You know , it's Santos Valle . Santos Valle is a spooky man who plays with the doctor's emotions and tricks him into committing acts the physician would not dared to do on his own . Dr . Faust is aroused by the prostitute that comes to his hotel room , obviously sent by Valle . Later on , he attends a party in a strange house where he discovers a horrific place where all kinds of gore is stored . Since he doesn't remember who Santos Valle is , he contacts his assistant , Julia , a woman that has been with him for quite some time . She is asked to get the old hospital records for Santos Valle , who tricks her into bringing them to the medical congress . It's there where the secret is revealed . Valle , who has played with the doctor's mind , is indirectly responsible for Fausto looking at the young woman with different eyes . This is a collaborative project between the theatrical company La Furla's directors Alex Olle and Carlos Padrisa and newcomer Isidro Ortiz . La Furla has staged plays in London that were erotically charged . The film has a menacing aspect as Fausto , who hasn't been able to find a cure for cancer , asks Valle to save a young man , whose mother has been seen praying at his bedside at the beginning . In asking that , Valle-Mephistophles , thinks he owns Fauto's soul because of their bargain , which is also the idea behind the story which is a variation of the classic Goethe's book . Miguel Angel Sola and Eduard Fernandez do wonderful jobs as Fausto and Santos Valle , respectively . Mr . Sola , one of the best actors from Argentina , now settled in Spain , makes an impression as the title character . Eduard Fernandez is also up to the challenge in his diabolical take of the devil . Najwa Nimri is seen as Julia , but she has nothing to do in the film . For horror film fans " Fausto 5 . 0 " is a must see .
The group interview	Somehow , all the job applicants we meet , as the film opens , seem eager to please until they start comparing notes ; for some , this is a second interview . Since it's never clear for what position they are applying , one must assume it will be , at least , well paid . The five men and two women we meet turn out to be fierce competitors in a game where only one will get the prized employment . In a way , one wonders who , in its right mind , would like to be subjected to such an intense and grueling process of elimination in order to have the privilege of working for this mysterious firm . After all , nothing is made clear . As they go through the paces , outside chaos reigns as people take to the streets to protest against a global conference now taking place in Madrid . Enrique is the one that discovers what the game is like . He tells the others it seems to be the Granholm Method , in which aspiring employees must compete with one another until it's clear who will be the chosen person . Ana , who is an older woman , has her age against her . Julio , who was an executive that had to make a tough decision doesn't seem to have much chance at succeeding . Fernando , a sexist man , shows no mercy for anyone . Ricardo , who speaks loudly , but appears to be overly confident , doesn't seem to be a sincere contender , although he questions everything . Only Carlos and Nieves , who knew one another before , show the intelligence for being the logical choice . Marcelo Pineyro , a director we have admired before , shows great restraint in the way he shows the material on the screen . In fact , this film has a theatrical feeling , which can't hide this is a work that was created for the stage by Jordi Galceras , and brilliantly adapted by Mateo Gil . " El Metodo " shows an excellent cast of young Spanish actors that interact well with one another . Eduardo Noriega and Najwa Nimri are seen as Carlos and Nieves . Both give controlled performances . Mysterious Pablo Echarri , also impresses . Eduard Fernandez , Carmelo Gomez , Adriana Ozores , Ernesto Alterio and Natalia Verbeke complete the cast on this interesting film .
A gentleman and a scholar	Most comments about " A Gentleman's Games " zero in the sport of golf . While yes , golf is what one sees played here , the film is much more about honesty and how to really be a good human being in a world that seems to reward the ones that are just the contrary . The book by Tom Coyne gets an excellent treatment by its director , J . Mills Goodloe , who is credited with being the adaptation with the author . Timmy Price , the young man at the center of the story , is being taught by his father how to play golf . In fact , one sees Mr . Price in trying to instill in this young man the rules of conduct , not only on the playing field , but also in life . Timmy is more mature than his young age reveals . Charlie Logan , a club member , suggests the older Price to look for a former caddy of the club , who was considered the best in the field , to guide his son . The meeting with Foster Pearce , the retired caddy now living in a trailer in a beach area , goes nowhere . Pearce is through with the game . Timmy goes to him on his own and starts practicing his swing on the beach . Pearce never coaches the boy to do anything , but we can see his interest as they become good friends . Pearce finally admits the reason for leaving the sport at a crucial point of the film . A few other things come out in the movie . We see how the kind Charlie Logan , turns against his black caddy in a moment of drunken rage as the other man was trying to shield him from being hit by a golf ball . The locker room politics also gets great play in the film . The incident in which Timmy's caddy friend is abused , is done with taste . The acting in general is splendid . Young Mason Gamble makes a great Timmy . Not having seen him before , his appearance in the film is excellent as this young actor underplays the role that enhances the film tremendously . Gary Sinise is also subdued in his take of Pearce , the defeated man who suddenly wants to remedy the situation that got him to this point . Dylan Baker an all around actor of stage and screen , who we have seen in many plays , is at his best playing the older Price . Also , Philip Baker Hall has a great moment playing the contradictory Charlie Logan . This film will not disappoint thanks to the superb direction by Mr . J . Mills Goodloe .
The secret lives of the former altar boys	John Schelesinger's career as a film director was extraordinary . We had watched this film when it first came out , but wanted to see it again when it showed on cable recently . The film has a faded look , as one watches it today , but still , it is interesting because of the intense performances of the two principals . If you haven't seen it , please don't read any further . Chris and Daulton were two childhood friends that came from upper middle class backgrounds . Chris went to enter a seminary to be a priest , but gives up . Daulton became a small time drug user and trafficker . The two lives seem to run parallel as the pair become involved in an illegal activity that will prove their short sightedness . In fact , it shows how both young men miscalculate in their attempt to fool the CIA and the Soviet Union . These two , in a way , were so naive in thinking they could pull something that bigger , and better equipped people couldn't even imagine could be done . Chris ' motivation is legitimate , as he feels outraged in discovering the underhanded role of the agency for which he works in dealing with other nations , in this case Australia , something he finds by sheer coincidence . When he involves Daulton , we know the whole thing is doomed because no one into drugs , as he is , will ever amount to anything . In fact , Chris and Daulton had no conception of the scope of what they are trying to do , or its consequences . Timothy Hutton was at this period of his career , an actor that was going places . He had proved he had talent with his work in other films , so it was a natural choice for Mr . Schlesinger to select him , a choice that pays off well . Sean Penn , also was a young actor who showed an intensity , like one hadn't seen before . In fact , at times , Mr . Penn , reminded us of a young Robert Mitchum in the making . Both actors ' contribution to the film is incredible . One can't think who could have played this duo but them . " The Falcon and the Snowman " , while not up to the par with other great John Schlesinger's movies , is an interesting look to our not too distant past .
A decent man	This 1981 film , showed up on cable recently . The film is interesting , and timely , because it parallels a political situation that has been playing in the news in 2005 : the imprisoning of a New York Times reporter for not revealing her source about the identity of a CIA agent . " Word of Honor " , directed by Mel Damski , also deals with a newspaper writer who finds himself at the center of a court case in which a prominent figure of the community is unmasked by the journalist as a sexual predator . Since he is bound by the promise he made to a young , abused girl , who now lives in complete anonymity , this reporter would rather sticks by his word than reveal the story which was given to him in confidence . Karl Malden , an actor of integrity , plays the upright Mike McNeill , the reporter for the local paper that is at the center of the story . His oldest daughter is getting married and he risks going to jail and not be able to escort her down the aisle . Mr . Malden plays the role with conviction . The film is interesting because it's the first feature in which John Malcovich , an actor who went far in his career , had his first appearance . Rue McClanahan plays Maggie , the wife that sticks by her man and ultimately is instrumental in her husband's acquittal . Ron Silver plays a New York newspaper reporter . Henderson Forsythe , Jacqueline Brookes , John Marley , and the rest of the cast do good work for the director . The film is worth seeing because it shows a man that sticks to his principles and will not denounce his source , under any circumstance , and will go to jail to defend what he believes in .
Treasury men	When counterfeit currency begin appearing in the L . A . area , the Treasury Dept . comes to investigate . The only way to deal with the problem is to have two agents from different areas of the country infiltrate the ring in order to have the ones responsible captured . Dennis O'Brien and Tony Genaro are the two men tapped for the job . It takes both men a while in getting to know how the gang operates . Dennis O'Brien gets lucky when he follows the Schemer into a craps game where he passes a counterfeit bill that is soon discovered . O'Brien is the one that is able to penetrate and get to know who are the people involved and is instrumental in solving the mystery . " T-Men " , directed with an amazing style by Anthony Mann is told documentary style , as though what we are watching was an episode , or a re-enactment of the real incident narrated by someone in the Treasury Department . Mr . Mann's direction and his innovative camera placements are about what makes the film watchable . The interesting black and white cinematography by John Alton gives the film a great look that keeps the viewer involved in the story . The background music is by Paul Sawtill and it works good with the action . Dennis O'Keefe makes a cool Dennis O'Brien , the T-Man that is smart and is able to solve the puzzle at the risk of losing his own life . Alfred Ryder plays Tony Genaro , another T-man whose cover is blown by a friend of his wife . Wallace Ford is perfect as the oily Schemer , a man who loves to gamble and the steam baths . Mary Meade , June Lockhart , Charles McGraw , are seen in supporting roles . The film clearly points out to the talent of a great film director , Anthony Mann , who created a film with a style and a substance that others imitated , but never succeeded .
Father and son	" I Never Sang for My Father " has to be one of the saddest films ever made . Relations between parents and grown up children are examined in this tight drama that rings true from beginning to end . We can relate to how the dynamics in a family change as parents get older and children are now involved in problems of their own with their families . This is basically about the special relationship between a father and a son . Tom Garrison , the father , is in his eighties . His son Gene has lost his wife and is now seeing a woman doctor in California . When Margaret , the mother , suffers a heart attack and dies , Tom and Gene come to a confrontation because the father wants to keep a grip on his son to help him during that adjustment period . Gene , who has always been a good son , has to make a decision that will put him at odds with his father . The idea of children taking care of their parents during their old age is questioned here . On the one hand , Tom , the father , is a self made man who struggled hard for all he achieved in life . Gene , the son , is in the eyes of the father , a failure , because of his passive nature . Tom has counted on relying on Gene for those late years and because of his intransigent nature , he is not willing to compromise in the solution the son has for him . The film version of Robert Anderson's play , and directed by Gilbert Cates , gathered a stellar cast to bring the family alive . Melvyn Douglas , in one of his best screen appearances , makes Tom Garrison come alive . Mr . Douglas ' take on his character shows a man that while giving an appearance of being strong , underneath , shows his vulnerability . Gene Hackman , who plays the son , is a perfect match for Melvyn Douglas . Their scenes together show a raw energy between a domineering father and a son that has gone along to please him . Estelle Parsons is seen as Alice , the estranged daughter and Dorothy Stickney who plays Margaret , the mother .
Revenge is sweet	This is one of the most accomplished films I've seen from France in a while . French cinema always presents risky situations . Hollywood , in search of ideas , sometimes turns into other films for American consumption under disguises , where the original idea is totally changed , or presented in such an idiotic way , that probably the new film derived has nothing to do with the original one . Director Coline Serreau presents a story about today's society , where there's always no time to pay attention to things , let alone go to the aid of someone who's being victimized on the street . The Vidals , a bourgeois couple are a typical example of people so preoccupied in their own little game ; they have no time to help the young woman who is beaten to a pulp in front of their eyes . Well , actually , Mme . Vidal has a conscience . She protests to Paul , her husband ; he couldn't care less . She goes to the hospital where the victim is under a coma , trying to put things right . She then becomes obsessed with the situation . At least she is a decent , if somehow tardy Samaritan . Noemi , the woman who's been beaten has her own sad story . Played with conviction by Rashida Brakni , she puts a plan to avenge herself against the people that got her in the present situation and tried to kill her . The interplay between Noemi and Mme . Vidal , also played earnestly by Catherine Frot , is one of the best combinations of wits in a film . The film never lets up . Showing a sure hand , Ms Serreau gives us an enjoyable film and a feminist take on the way things are done when a woman decides to say enough to all kinds of abuses she has been put all her life .
Audrey in couture	William Wyler was at the end of his distinguished career when he undertook this project . The film with a screen play by Harry Kurnitz is a film that doesn't break any new grounds , but it's a favorite of a lot of fans , no doubt because of the luminous presence of Audrey Hepburn , a star of such charisma and elegance , unmatched by her peers . Audrey Hepburn is seen in the film through the loving eyes of Mr . Wyler , a director who had worked with the star before . In fact , it was Mr . Wyler who was instrumental in directing Ms . Hepburn in " Roman Holiday " , her big break in the American cinema . Audrey Hepburn is seen in the film at her best thanks to Givenchy , a designer that loved her , and whose clothes adorn the star and give the film a touch of chic . Peter O'Toole makes an interesting partner for Ms . Hepburn . As Simon Dermott , Mr . O'Toole is the perfect match for his co-star . Both actors are seen at their most charismatic selves . They seem to be having the time of their lives working for Mr . Wyler and living it up in Paris ! The supporting cast is excellent . Hugh Griffith , Charles Boyer , Eli Wallach , Fernand Gravey and Marcel Dalio , and the rest grace the film with their distinguished presence and contribute to the general fun generated by this gentle caper . Thanks to Mr . Wyler and its stars " How to Steal a Million " is a pleasure to watch .
Hit and run	The serenity we watch at the beginning of the story , a boy at a beach , is shattered as he is hit by a speeding car near his home . We know something bad was about to happen as Claude Chabrol , the director , sits us , his audience , in the back seat of the car , but he only lets us see the backs of the killer and the woman in the passenger's seat . The impact jolts the woman , who lets out a horrible scream , but the man couldn't care less about what he has done . Charles Thenier , the father of the dead boy , Michel , is shattered by the discovery of his dead son . He goes into a deep grief , ordering to get rid of the boy's possessions . On a visit to the house in Brittany , he questions the old servant if she discarded everything , but she breaks down and tells him she couldn't part with Michel's toys . Charles vows to avenge Michel's death . He will not stop before he finds , and kills the person who caused the tragedy . Charles begins to write all his findings in a diary that he fills with details about the murder . Just by accident , Charles learns about the woman who was a passenger in the car . She happens to be an actress and he follows her . It's easy for him to fake he is in love with her . Charles , who has begun a diary about his findings is interested in knowing all about this beautiful woman . Helen tells Charles , about a sister that lives in Brittany . As it turned out , her sister lives not far from his own town . As Helen thinks her involvement with Charles is getting serious , she invites him to go with her to visit her sister and her family . Helen's sister is married to Paul Decourt , a boorish man who makes fun of his wife's artistic temperament . Paul , who owns a large garage , fits the description of the killer of Michel . Charles finds an ally in Phillippe Decourt , the son of Paul , an intense young man who is ridiculed by his own father . Charles , who has planned to take Paul for a boat ride in order to kill him , but he finds a formidable foe . Decourt tells him he has given the diary , in which Charles has written his feelings about Paul Decourt . As Helen and Charles are driving back to Paris , they are surprised to learn about Paul's death by poisoning and they go back . When confronted by the police inspector , Charles , tells all he knows , but his interrogator doesn't believe in what he has to say , or his alibi . It seems that Charles contributed to the suspicion that now falls on him as the possible murderer when he had nothing to do with it . When Phillippe confesses about doing his father in , it appears he is covering for Charles . The last scenes of the film have a calming effect as we see Charles in his boat in the middle of the sea sailing to an unknown destination . Claude Chabrol is an excellent adapter of other people's material . This film is based on a Nicholas Blake novel we read some time ago . As he did with Ruth Rendell's " A Judgment in Stone " , he wrote a magnificent screen treatment of this complex novel . Chabrol is not interested in keeping the killer's identity from his audience . We know throughout the narrative who was the one responsible for young Michel's death , yet , there is suspense in watching Charles preparing for his revenge carefully . Jean Yanne , who was seen in Chabrol's " Le Boucher " , returns as Paul Decourt , a far more colorful character without any redeeming qualities . Michel Dushaussoy who plays Charles goes from the despair at the start of the film into a quiet man who is biding his time to do the right thing to avenge his son . Mark DiNapoli , is another asset to the film . He is a calculating young man who hates his father and sees in Charles a kind soul that shows him the attention he never got from his old man . Caroline Cellier appears as Helen Lanson , a beautiful woman who falls in love with Charles . Raymone , who plays Paul Decourt's mother has two great scenes in which she reveals her true nature ; she is just the female version of her son . Maurice Pialat , the director , is seen as a police inspector . The musical score is by Dominique Zardi , who also has a small part in the film . Brittany's landscape is captured by Jean Rabier . The film is one of Claude Chabrol's best directorial efforts .
Mommie Dearest	" Nobody Knows " , directed by Hirozaku Koreeda , is a compelling film that will grab the viewer's attention from the start . The film , based on a real incident in Japan is one of the saddest accounts in memory about children's abuse by uncaring parents . If you haven't seen the movie , maybe you would like to stop reading . When we first meet this family , Keiko , the mother , and Akira , are seen bringing their things to the tiny apartment they have rented . Little by little we see two young children emerge from two huge suitcases , at the risk of suffocating , and another one that is waiting at a train station . This mother and the four children seem to be happy being together . Since the lease is for only two persons , the other kids must be quiet , as they don't want to bring undue attention from the landlord and his wife , who also live in the complex . We realize Keiko's love for her children comes second to her life as a woman of loose morals ; she may be a prostitute , although it's left to the viewer's imagination what she does after she leaves the apartment . Akira , being the oldest , is in charge of the other three . It becomes clear these four children are the product of different fathers . Yet , all four function as though they have the same set of parents . Keiko , who appears to be just another kid , thinks nothing in leaving these four to fend for themselves , while she is going out of town with her present beau . Keiko is the epitome of cruelty . How can a mother even dream of abandoning these young kids and expect Akira to assume full responsibility for the situation ? Akira , is a study of maturity beyond belief . Only in that type of society , someone like this boy can exist . Akira is seen in his daily routine going to the store and cook for the siblings and the mother , while she's still around . Akira realizes he has a responsibility , as he never resorts to stealing , even when he becomes friendly with some bad kids from his area . Akira realizes he is the head of the household and must protect those that have been placed under his care , something the real mother has neglected to do . The film is a document about children's abuse and cruelty . Mr . Koreeda has been blessed with a cast that do miracles for him . Yuya Yagira , does an incredible job as Akira . All the children appear to be non professionals , but under the guidance of the director , they make us believe they are the abandoned children living alone and eking out a living for themselves .
Epicure	Frederic Delamont , a wealthy business man , has a problem . He must have someone to taste the food he is going to eat . His aversion to fish and cheese presents a big problem for him . That is why , as the story begins , a young man , Nicolas Riviere , who is about to serve Delamont a dish in the restaurant he works as a waiter , is told by the diner to taste something from the plate he had just served and to describe its ingredients . When Nicolas gives the right answers , Delamont seems impressed by this waiter's knowledge in food . Nicolas is engaged to be Delamont's personal taster , something that his girlfriend , Beatrice , and the group of friends that share a large apartment , find weird . Delamont asks for what appear is way beyond the duties of an employee : he must go through a rigorous diet , and he must stop smoking . At the end of this trial , Delamont presents Nicolas with a feast of fish and cheeses . Having starved for so long , the banquet makes Nicolas sick and he develops the same repugnance for fish and cheese as Delamont . Delamont wants to dominate his relationship with the younger man , to the point that Beatrice feels she has to end seeing Nicolas . When Nicolas picks up a young woman at a hotel , Delamont offers to rent him a suite . As they are getting intimate , a robed Delamont appears out of nowhere to remind Nicolas he is the taster , and not to forget it ! The young girl was intended for his enjoyment only . There is a hint of homosexuality throughout the story , but everything is left in the air . The story , seen in flashbacks , appears to be the interrogation of the people that were close to Delamont , as it appears he has been killed , although this is left to the viewer's imagination . Bernard Rapp , the director of the film , created an elegant story that , at times , kept reminding us of Joseph Losey's " The Servant " , although this film has two uneven roles . Frederic Delamont is a calculating and manipulative rich man , whereas Nicolas Riviere , is poor as well as dazzled by his sudden brush with wealth and power . The main reason for watching this intriguing film is because of the sophisticated portrayal Bernard Giraudeau gives to Frederic Delamont . He completely dominates the film with his performance . Jean-Pierre Lorrit , who plays Nicolas , is quite good , but unfortunately , he is playing against a great actor , and it shows . The film has an interesting cinematography by Gerard Battista and the atmospheric music of Jean-Philippe Gaude . The production designer , Francois Comtet did a wonderful job with the many sets used in the Lyon area . We'll be looking forward to Bernard Rapp's next project because he shows he is on the right track for doing great things .
Taxi driver	Los Angeles , a soulless city , is seen at its best through the eyes of director Michael Mann . For two hours we are asked to come along for the ride in a film that will surely please a lot of viewers , while others might think they've seen it already . The screen play has a quick pace and Mr . Mann uses the music intelligently to enhance parts of the film . The big asset for this movie is the pairing of Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx . Both actors give performances that are amazing . Tom Cruise is the hired killer on his way to eliminate a few people throughout his night in L . A . Mr . Cruise is an actor that excels when he has good direction , as is the case in this one . Also , this actor , like Richard Gere , show their best when playing against type . As a romantic hero , Mr . Cruise can be bland , but as Vincent , the assassin , he is a force to reckon with . Jamie Foxx is excellent . He holds his own against Mr . Cruise and makes the picture his own , in many ways . This Max is a man that has ambitions but has , as yet , to realize them . His mind is in the Maldives resort where he would like to be , away from the stark realities of the daily grind of driving the streets and highways of the city of angels . The rest of the cast is equally good . Mark Ruffalo , as Fanning , makes an appearance that is completely different than his recent ones . This is an actor that always surprises . Amazing Jada Pinkett Smith is also good as the prosecutor who befriends Max at the beginning of the film . She is a lovely woman who projects an inner beauty that is rare to find in other young actresses . Finally , Irma P . Hall , as Ida , Max's sick mother makes the best of her short trip in front of the camera . One final note . It appears there is a trend among production designers to include chase sequences in the Los Angeles rapid transit system , as we have already seen in " The Italian Job " , among others . Yet , for all the turmoil we see , the trains are immaculate and no there is no graffiti in sight . Hooray for L . A . ! This is a film for action fans . It will reward the viewer in many ways .
The Masseuse	Yimau Zhang takes us along for a ride to explore how things seem to have changed in China . The country has given a step forward into the modern age as it shakes off its rigid past , adopting new ways in doing things . In fact , the country appears to have developed its own take on capitalism , as we watch a new prosperous , and aggressive China , transformed in ways we had not envisioned before . Mr . Zhang's film is an allegory about his country . The main idea in the film is how Zhao , a factory worker , sets his eyes on a plump and attractive woman to get married . The woman , in turn , has her own ideas of what to expect from this man who lies to her and makes himself pass for a hotel manager . Thinking this is the case , the lady friend proposes he employs her stepdaughter , a blind girl that has been abandoned by her father , who has decamped to another city . Zhao , who wants to keep the girlfriend happy , decides to take Wu Ying to work at his hotel , which in reality is a bus , that he and his buddy have converted in a lovers ' motel , in a park . But before he can do anything , Zhao watches in horror as how some cleaning crews are taking his livelihood away because they are beautifying the area . Zhao is stuck with Wu Ying , so he takes her to his own humble apartment . Zhao and his friends from the factory devise a plan to convert space in the dilapidated building a massage parlor so that the blind girl can work . The only thing , there are no clients , and only Zhao's friends are enrolled to tip the young woman using Zhao's own money . The film is a delightful comedy about how being entrepreneurial backfires on the well intentioned man . The blind girl , Wu Ying , knows much more than what Zhao and the rest give her credit for , and unfortunately , everything ends badly , except for the blind girl , who recognizes the kindness of his mentor , who doesn't get to know first hand of her gratitude because fate intervenes . " Happy Times " is a charming film that works thanks to the light touch by the director . Benshan Zhao , who has been seen in other Chinese films is excellent in the role of Zhao . Jie Dong plays Wu Ying with conviction and Lifan Dong , is the stepmother , who discovers the duplicity of her would be husband . Recommended to all Yimou Zhang's fans who might have missed its commercial run .
A guide to recognizing your saints	Consider Esperanza Diaz , a young widow who must deal with the death of her teen aged daughter Blanca . She is inconsolable , to say the least . Esperanza discovers one day the image of Saint Jude , the patron saint of impossible causes , in the door of her grimy oven , which she has neglected because she has no Easy-off cleaner . The saint speaks to her and tells her Blanca is alive . Esperanza runs to the church to tell it to Father Salvador , who goes along trying to appease the distraught woman . Esperanza , who shares a house with another woman , Soledad , knows Blanca's death doesn't make sense . The girl went into the hospital for a minor procedure and ends up dead , under mysterious circumstances . Her body is never released to Esperanza because supposedly it can spread a certain type of virus . In trying to see Blanca's doctor , Esperanza is told he no longer practices in the hospital . When St . Jude appears again , he tells her about a pink house where Blanca is kept against her wishes . The house happens to be in Tijuana , a far away place from her small town in Veracruz . Esperanza decides to follow her hunch and ends up in the northern border city . In Tijuana she gets a run around , and she ends up in a series of situations that involve prostitution , something that she does against he will because she is determined to find her daughter . Her quest takes her to Los Angeles , a city that proves to be not too friendly to Esperanza , but in which she ends up finding love when she meets a wrestling star that falls in love with her . Esperanza , who decides to go back to Veracruz finally gets a vision of Blanca in a mirror on a wall of her house . When the wrestler shows up in her town , she decides to take the chance , not before ripping the wall where she can see Blanca's image . Alejandro Springall , the director of this wonderfully entertaining film , shows a natural talent for bringing together all the elements and make it work . The film is based on a novel by Maria Amparo Escandon , who also appears briefly in the film . " Santitos " made quite an impression when it was presented at the Sundance Film Festival . The film mixes superstition with an adventure . The second half of the film is a road movie as Esperanza sets out to bring Blanca home . Dolores Heredia does a splendid job as Esperanza . She gives an inspired performance and holds the picture together . This sunny actress should be seen more often because she proves to be a natural in front of the camera . Others in the film include Damian Bichir , in a small role . Alberto Estrella , Roberto Cobo and Ana Berta Espin contribute to enhance the film . " Santitos " merits a view and it's a shame it didn't get a wider distribution in this country .
Designing an election campaign in Bolivia	How to remake the image of a once unpopular president , who is now a candidate and how to market him and sell him to voters , is the basis of this excellent documentary . Rachel Boynton chronicles in vivid detail about the experience in this wonderful documentary . The idea of importing a team of American image consultants that have been notorious in the United States for their work in helping elect president Bill Clinton , not once , but twice , seems to be a novel idea for politics in South America . How will this team , headed by James Carville fare in helping to elect Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada , a man who was an unpopular president in that country , seems to have made some sense to this candidate for his successful bid for a second term . After all , Mr . Sanchez de Lozada governed the country from 1993 to 1997 , so why try to have the campaign run by Mr . Carville and his gang of experts ? Ms . Boynton takes us , the viewers behind the scenes to meetings that one would imagine would have been closed to her camera crew . We see people like Jeremy Rossner and the advertising pundit Tad Devine shooting ideas about how to present the candidate for a possible victory . American style campaign tactics seem to be the selling point to the candidate and his team . After all , the stakes are high and the man running for office doesn't want to take any chances . There are a lot of candid moments in the film which seem to indicate the director got a free hand about what to capture in film . Rachel Boynton shows a knack for capturing all the insanity of the situation and the people preparing a man to be accepted by his people with an American team behind him .
A Passage to India	Rudyard Kipling's story serves as the basis for this excellent John Ford film . Mr . Ford , one of America's best directors of all times , got probably a fantastic budget to get this movie made . It paid well as we are given a great account of Mr . Kipling's novel by the man who knew about how to make movies come alive . This was obviously a Shirley Temple vehicle . Ms . Temple was one of the best child actress of all times . Whenever she is in front of the camera , this little girl has a way of stealing the viewer's heart . In all the films we have seen , this seems to be her best , and in fact , Ms . Temple always speaks about her fond memories about this movie . Of course , this film wouldn't have worked the way it did , had it not been by the amazing performance by Victor McLaglen , who as Sgt . MacDuff , befriends the little girl that has come to live at the headquarters where he is serving . His roughness are tamed by the love he feels toward young Priscilla . John Ford got excellent performances from everyone , but of course , Shirley Temple and Victor McLaglen run away with the film and our admiration . C . Aubrey Smith , the distinguished actor makes a great appearance as the Colonel in charge of the outpost in India . Cesar Romero is also good as the rebel Khoda Kahn . June Lang plays Priscilla's mother and Michael Whalen is " Coppy " , the man who falls for the young girl's widowed mother . This is a film that will delight anyone , young or old , because it is a timeless classic , thanks to John Ford .
Shall we dance ?	This film owes a great debt of gratitude to Michael Kidd , the great choreographer . Mr . Kidd's talents are clearly visible in the fantastic dancing he created for the movie . The association between Michael Kidd and director Stanley Donen paid off handsomely in the way this movie remains a big favorite . The story of 1850's Oregon , based in a story by Stephen Vincent Benet , is a bit dated , but one must make concessions because the times when this film was made . The music by Gene de Paul and lyrics by Johnny Mercer , although tuneful , won't stay with the viewer for a long time . This is not a musical that distinguishes itself for its songs , but for the fabulous dancing . The cast of this picture is brilliant . Howard Keel and Jane Powell made an interesting couple . All the brothers went to have careers of their own . It's a treat to see Jeff Richards , Tommy Rall , Marc Platt , Matt Mattox and the young Russ Tamblyn do the best dancing to be seen in any musical . Also , Jacques D'Amboise became a famous choreographer himself , surely inspired by what he saw Michael Kidd accomplish with this movie . Also in the cast were a few actresses that later made into the movies , notably , Julie Newmar and Ruta Lee . It was a simple time and " Seven Brides for Seven Brothers " will make anyone happy by watching it .
Entrepreneurial GIs	This movie packs a lot of punch as it reveals how a mighty army might be undermined by those that are there to serve and protect . It's a sad commentary on the reality of the times we are living . Gregor Jordan , an Australian director gives a great account of what happens in a US Army base in Germany when unscrupulous soldiers do anything to supplement their meager incomes by stealing things from the supply department for profit . It is a moral tale that is told as a black comedy . Mr . Jordan has extracted a splendid performance out of Joaquin Phoenix , an actor that has not played up to his full potential in the movies . He is an excellent actor , make no mistake . His choice of material might not have been the greatest . He shines as Roy Elwood , the corrupt supply soldier who knows how to flatter the ego of Colonel Berman , the base commander , as well as satisfying Mrs . Berman in bed . Equally fabulous is Scott Glenn , as Sargeant Lee , who sees right through Elwood and his associates what they are doing to the Army . Sgt . Lee is the man who can potentially bring Elwood to justice and unmask his clandestine activities . He also has a daughter who falls for Elwood ; he is at a loss because he can't do anything to get the girl away from this evil man . Anna Paquin , as Robyn , is also good as the army brat who will do anything to bring pain to her father . Obviously , not everything is well between Sgt . Lee and Robyn . Ed Harris , as Col . Berman , is a man that has no clue of what's going right in front of his nose . He is more interested in what he will do after his army career than in anything else . This is a shorter but effective role that Mr . Harris can add to his distinguished career . The irony of this tale is that some things , the more they change , the more they stay the same , as we watch in disbelief the final scenes of the movie .
Audrey in Long Island dressed by Givenchy	Billy Wilder , a genius when it came to adapting films from another medium , teamed up with Samuel Taylor , who wrote the play , " Sabrina's Fair " , and Ernest Lehman , to create a a delightful comedy that will remain an old favorite because of the great charm the creative men imbued this movie with . Some comments on this forum remark about the disparity of age between Humphrey Bogart and Audrey Hepburn . They all seem to forget that Ms . Hepburn played opposite with men much older than her , namely , Gary Cooper , Cary Grant , Rex Harrison , Fred Astaire , Gregory Peck , just to name a few . The actress was always effective and showed she had an enormous charisma no matter who was her leading man . " Sabrina " looks as good today , as when it was first released thanks to the timeless black and white photography of Charles Lang . The big asset of the film was the unusual pairing between Humphrey Bogart and Audrey Hepburn . Both actors were wonderful together , as we witness in the film . William Holden , as the younger Larrabee , is excellent as well . The film is a delightful comedy that , in comparison to Sidney Pollack's misguided and undistinguished attempt to bring it to the screen can't even compare with the witty and elegant film Mr . Wilder gave us .
A woman in love	Never underestimate a woman in love . Such seems to be the message of " Possessed " , a film that was obviously tailor made for its star , Joan Crawford . As directed by Curtis Bernhardt , this film will not bore the fans of the genre , or its star . If you haven't seen the film , maybe you should stop reading here . " Possessed " presents us Louise Howell , a nurse , for the ailing Mrs . Graham , a wealthy recluse . Louise's charge is a woman from hell . When this woman dies under mysterious circumstances , it appears to herald the end of Louise's employment . Prior to that , we see Louise during a tryst with a neighbor of the Grahams , David Sutton . They have had an affair and David decides to end it , much to Louise's chagrin . Dean Graham , the rich widower , asks Louise to stay after his wife's death . Will a marriage proposal be too far behind ? Well , Dean proposes and Louise accepts . Her life is transformed from mediocrity into a life of luxury . The only sour point in Louise's new found happiness is Carol Graham , the daughter of the dead woman who blames Louise for the accident and death of her mother . Will Louise find happiness with Dean ? Will David see how much Louise loves him and come back to her ? Will Carol and Louise ever be friends ? Those are the questions that will be answered in the movie , not by this observer . The film is involving , although having seen some of these melodramas prepares us for all possible answers . Joan Crawford does an impressive job as Louise . This woman gave the star one of her best characters ever . She goes through a range of emotions right before our eyes . Van Heflin , on the other hand , doesn't seem to have been the obvious choice for David , although he was an excellent actor , but in this movie doesn't have much to do . Raymond Massey , as Dean , is enormously appealing . He shows us a Dean who is a generous man . A young Geraldine Brooks makes a good impression as Carol the girl that is deprived of her mother at an early age . " Possessed " is a wonderful film . It will not disappoint the fans of this genre .
Surviving in the big city	" Beijing Bicycle " the interesting Chinese film directed by Xiaoshuai Wang , has been compared with Vittorio DeSica's masterpiece of the Italian cinema , " Bicycle Thief " . In fact , we suspect this director is telling a story that seems to mirror the other film , but it's Chinese to the core . Young Guo , who has arrived in Beijing from a rural area , is hired as a messenger for an agency that delivers important packages and mail throughout the city . Part of the deal is a shiny new bicycle that will be paid by the new hires after being in the job for a while . The bicycle for Guo means the improvement of his lot in life , as well as freedom to go everywhere and be his own master . Jian , on the other hand , is a student that is seen hanging out with a rough bunch of school mates . Jian is excelling academically , but in order to fit , he must have a bicycle . The film doesn't make clear if Jian himself steals the bicycle , or as he claims , he bought it at the second hand market , with the money he stole from his father , which seems to be the case . He views the bicycle as a sign of status and of belonging ; a means to have been accepted by his peers . Young Guo shows a stubbornness that seems to be a trait with people from the area where he comes from . Instead of accepting the fact that his bicycle has been stolen , he decides to investigate on his own , something that must be a super human task given the millions of bicycles one sees in that city , and a mode of transport for the masses . One can't follow Guo's logic in not going to the police , or when he realizes who has stolen his bicycle , he never challenges the thief . In fact , Jian and his friends show a cruelty for the newly arrived country bumpkin that is scary . In fact , Jian shows a stubbornness himself that is unusual for a city boy that should have known better and who should have realized the plight of Guo . " Beijing Bicycle " shows a side of city living in a city that is crowded and can be cruel to anyone trying to make a life in a decent way . We watch at the end a defeated Guo walking with his mangled bicycle on his way back home , perhaps . The film will not disappoint , in spite of some repetitious sequences thanks to the strength of the two principals and the direction by Xiaoshuai Wang .
Runaway train	This nostalgic look at how unscrupulous people can do away with things and institutions long venerated by many , is at the heart of this film , which I saw in DVD format , since it has never had a commercial run in this country , to the best of my knowledge . Director Diego Arsuaga has done wonders with this story about a bunch of older men , who are friends and all they have in common is their love for the steam trains of their youth . When they learn about the last locomotive being sold by the callous Jimmy to Hollywood , they rally against seeing their beloved , if a bit dilapidated locomotive , to be taken away from the country . They consider it to be a national treasure ! How dare he ? This was an inspired cast that teams such accomplished performers such as Federico Luppi , Hector Alterio , Pepe Soriano and other great Argentine actors . Having seem them act in the theatre as well as in films , it was a real treat to see them interact so well together . A feat no train lover should ever miss !
Desperado	In many ways , " The Assassination of Richard Nixon " , echoes the events of September 11 , 2001 , in that a desperate man wanted to kill then President Richard Nixon , whom he blamed for everything that had gone wrong in his own life . The plot involved the hijacking of an airliner that was going to be forced to crash against the White House , killing President Nixon , who was occupying the mansion at the time . Fortunately , that ill conceived plan doesn't take place as the actions of the enforcement force were able to deal with that man who was a menace to society . Niels Mueller , who directed , and co-wrote the film with Kevin Kennedy , shows he clearly understood his main character , Samuel Bicke , who as many contributors have compared to Travis Bickle , the Robert DeNiro's character in " Taxi Driver " , but all comparisons must end there , in the name , which is almost the same for both men . Samuel Bicke is a man that has lost almost everything he ever had . His wife and children don't want anything to do with him . His own brother , Julius , knows what Sam has been doing to his business and wants no part of him . Samuel is a man at the end of his rope . He has failed everybody that even cared a little for him . That is why Sam decides on an extreme action for which he will pay dearly . Sean Penn is the best thing in this movie . He is riveting as we don't dare take our eyes from him for a moment . This actor proves he has a natural intelligence to get under any of his characters in ways that others wouldn't dare . His Samuel Bicke will be one of the best creations he has done in the movies . The rest of the cast do a good supporting role . Naomi Watts , as a brunette , plays Marie , Sam's estranged wife . Don Cheadle's Bonny is about the only friend Sam can rely on . The wonderful Australian actor Jack Thompson does an incredible job as Sam's boss at the office furniture place where Sam has found employment . Michael Wincott is also good as Sam's brother . The film's musical score is by Steven Stern . Emmanuel Lubezki did an excellent job photographing the film that tries to show those years during the Nixon's administration . Alfonso Cuaron , a great director himself , produced what seems to be a labor of love that he entrusted to Niels Mueller to direct .
Greed is good !	Greed is at the core of this film . It's incredible how money can corrupt people to the point that it will make them do things that ultimately , they will live to regret . It was a surprise to see this Australian film that only played a couple of weeks in New York . It's a much better picture than some of the very highly regarded ones that came out just about the same time and are still around , while this one went back to Australia , probably . The director , Robert Connelly presents us with a story that's very plausible . In it , the greedy banker , played with fine assurance by Anthony LaPaglia , wants to be able to get rich with a scheme that is presented to him by the mysterious David Wenham . Aside from some of the technical aspects of the financial world , it is very entertaining and very nicely acted by all the actors in it .
Playing Hamlet in Poland	Having seen most of Ernst Lubitsch American films , we had missed this one because it's not played often these days . " To Be , or not to Be " is a wonderful satire that only a director like Lubitsch , with his European background could have pulled . The film is a good comedy that seems to has kept some of its freshness intact . The film works because of the great contribution of Jack Benny and Carole Lombard , who sadly , died before the film had its premiere . They play the Turas , a Polish theatrical couple that foresee the Nazi invasion of their country . In fact , Jack Benny , a man associated as a comedian , first on radio , then on television , was an actor with an uncanny sense of timing . Mr . Benny was a natural for this type of comedy , as he proves in the film . His pairing with Carole Lombard was a stroke of genius . In fact , for being associated to lighter fare , he demonstrates with his take on Joseph Tura , he was an actor of stature . Carole Lombard is seen as Maria Tura , a grand dame of the Polish theater . Ms . Lombard gave a marvelous performance and her contribution to the success of this film is amazing . Robert Stack is seen as the pilot Sobinski . Other faces in the cast include Felix Bressard , Lionel Atwill , Sig Ruman , George Lynn , and others that are perfect under Ernst Lubitsch guidance . This is a film to be treasured because of the work of Jack Benny and the impeccable direction of Ernst Lubitsch .
The gangs of Rio	Quentin Tarantino , eat your heart out ! At least in this film they outshot you big time . Watching this film is difficult at times . The violence is to such a degree , the viewer has a problem seating through it . Director Fernando Meirelles has an eye for realism and detail . The most disturbing thing about City of God is the fact that the killers are children playing adult games before they can be children . It is a well known fact that these kids ' gangs created terror , not only in the favelas where they lived , which was unfortunate , but they mugged , robbed and just plain terrorized the big cities in Brazil . News about street children being shot in the streets of Rio or Sao Paolo were perceived as criminal because of the ages , but one can get a clearer picture in this film by coming to the realization these same children were killing real grown ups and getting away with murder . The only problem I had with this film is with the English subtitles . Sometimes , one doesn't know who's who . To make matters worse , the principal character grows from a young boy into a photographer who looks like a small boy himself . The plots and subplots are somehow hard to follow at times . The great accomplishment for the director is that he never preaches . He shows the world what went on at that particular time . The realism is extended to the way we see in gory details the corpses of the slain gang members . If Hollywood would have presented scenes that are so hard to take as these , many would be criminals would have been able to see first hand what bullets do to human beings : they kill !
The sound of music	" Rhapsody " is not the bad movie some of the comments to IMDb seem to indicate . While this was a film typical of the time when it was made , it offers some of the most glorious music ever heard in a Hollywood picture . The music takes center stage in the movie . As interpreted by Michael Rabin and Claudio Arrau , among others , Tchaikowsky , Liszt and Rachmaninoff were never given such loving tribute as in this film . Charles Vidor directed this adaptation of a novel that might have been well regarded , enough to be brought to the screen . Ruth and August Goetz are given credit for the screen play . The Goetzes wrote many plays , among them , " The Heiress " . Fay and Michael Kanin also contributed to the adaptation . The story of Louise " Lulu " Durant , a spoiled rich girl , that defied her father into following what she thought was the love of her life , turns out to be a nightmare . Lulu was not prepared to play second fiddle , no pun intended , to anyone , let alone Paul Bronte , the talented , but egotistical violinist that is only in love with his career . The story , by the way , takes place in Zurich , and not Munich , as someone reported in another comment . Lulu , who has ambitions of becoming a pianist , promptly realizes she is a lousy player and heeds the advice of the wise professor Schuman , but she makes the mistake of staying around , getting bored because Paul has only time for his music and not for her . Enter James Guest , an American pianist . He falls in love with the beautiful Lulu , only to be rejected . When Paul becomes the toast of the music world , he breaks from Lulu , who in turn marries James on the rebound . Ultimately , Lulu realizes that James is the one that is real and the only one that cares for her and there's a happy ending when he makes a stunning debut playing Rachmaninoff's Second Piano Concerto . Elizabeth Taylor , in all her beauty , is seen as the ravishing creature she was in those years . She made an impression as the spoiled " papa's girl " that she was . In this film , as well as all those Ms . Taylor made during those years , she projects such a loving presence that is hard to find fault with her acting . This actress showed such magnetism and charisma in her films , something perhaps no one else can match . Vittorio Gassman was perhaps Italy's best modern actor . He was trying to break into American movies . As Paul Bronte , he makes quite an impression . He was dashing and had the presence and good looks to play opposite his gorgeous costar . John Ericson shows he had potential to go far in the business . Unfortunately he never made it big in Hollywood . He was an accomplished actor who deserved better . Louis Calhern as Nicholas Durant , Lulu's father had only a few scenes in the movie , so it is puzzling for one to agree with another comment about how he carried the film on his shoulders . If it was , it remains a mystery to us . Mr . Calhern was a fine actor who show a natural elegance to every thing he did in the movies . Ms . Taylor is dressed by Helen Rose , one of the best in the business . Ms . Rose designs are an asset ; anything that Elizabeth Taylor wore in the film enhanced her figure and gave the viewer an opportunity to see her as the film goddess was always was .
Forget your troubles , come on get happy !	" Summer Stock " is not up to par with other MGM musicals , yet , this take on a group of thespians invading a farm to do summer theater will delight anyone looking for a movie that doesn't demand much from its viewers , yet it delivers some unexpected pleasures . As directed by Charles Walters , " Summer Stock " is a rarity , in that it still has a fresh look about how summer theater started . The music , especially Harold Arlen's songs , are tuneful and stay with the viewer . This was another pairing of Judy Garland and Gene Kelly , two of the most admired musical performers at the golden era of MGM . Both performers do well together as they project an ease and charm that filters down to the rest of the movie . Judy Garland is perfect as the girl trying to make ends meet working at the family farm . Gene Kelly is the city slicker who comes unannounced to take over everything to try out his musical play . There are some familiar faces in supporting roles . Eddie Bracken , Phil Silvers , Marjorie Main , Ray Collins , Hans Conreid , and the beautiful Gloria DeHaven . By the magic of the movies we are shown how the rustic barn is transformed into a place that no one would have been able to predict could be made into a stage where the musical takes place . Stay tuned and get happy with this summer film that is as refreshing as an ice cream cone on a hot day .
Making music	A famous orchestra conductor , Daniel Dareus , suffers what appears a heart attack as he finished conducting a concert . Suddenly , we watch him as he arrives in the small town that he has left years before . Since he left so young , and having his name changed contributes to give him a new persona . He has bought the old school building where he plans to stay . The building needs a lot of work . One would expect a man in his position to have all the comforts of the world he left behind to be installed in his new abode , but no , Daniel puts up with the harsh winter in his own way . The local pastor , Stig , whose church has a small choir , comes calling to see if he can interest Daniel in helping , but the conductor has no desire to go back to music . Daniel begins to explore his new universe . The town's people leave him alone . He makes an impression on Lena , who works in the local store where he goes to get his food supplies . Little by little , he comes around and decides to involve himself with the choir . Lena will ultimately fall in love with Daniel . At first , the relationship between Daniel and the choir members is not exactly what he expected . As they get to know him better , they come around to accept him and make him one of them . His new position doesn't endear him to the woman who used to be in charge . The members of the choir are a motley crew , but they realize the change Daniel has made in the way they interpret different songs . The new piece composed for Gabriella , a battered wife , makes a great impact in her life and that of her fellow singers . Daniel's ideas for the repertoire clash with Stig's own . The vicar suddenly begins seeing Daniel in a new light ; he is a tormented man who likes to read pornographic magazines before making love to his wife , Siv . His ideas clash with the dogma , as Siv points to him . Stig decides to try to put a stop to what he considers an unhealthy influence of Daniel by firing him as the head of the choir . The choir , which has been invited to participate in a competition travels to Austria . Daniel , who by now has fallen totally for Lena , has a chance to show for the first time in his life his feelings for her when she starts to gets doubts about their relationship . Daniel who is late for his own concert , gets to hear them making extraordinary music even though he is not in among them . Kay Pollak , the director of this enormously appealing film , shows he was the man to direct it . The story involves the viewer from the start . Great part of the success of the movie goes to the ensemble cast that was put together . William Nykvist , who plays the leading role is the best excuse for watching the film . Frida Hallgren , Niklas Falk , Ylva Loof , do excellent work for Mr . Pollak . Stefan Nilsson is the composer for most of the beautiful music one hears . Harald Gunnar Paalgard's cinematography makes the film look better capturing different seasons for the viewer in their beauty .
Waiting for the Messiah	We first watched this film as part of a festival of new Argentine films in 2000 at the Walter Reade . Although we liked it , we didn't think it was extraordinary . Watching it for a second time , we found a different meaning in this look at life in Buenos Aires . The film takes place in one of the darkest days of Argentina , as the DeLaRua administration was ending . The country was in turmoil after the economy , which had flourished earlier in the 1990s , under the artificially climate President Menen created . It was a time when bank accounts in dollars were frozen and people got themselves living a nightmare . The story begins just as Santamarina , a bank employee , is fired because the collapse of the economy . Instead of receiving sympathy from his wife , she locks him out of the apartment and he , for all practical purposes , becomes a homeless man . He takes to the streets trying to make ends meet . The other story introduces us to Ariel , a young Jew , interviewing for a job in a Spanish company . It's almost a miracle he gets the job . His father , Simon , owns a small restaurant in the Jewish quarter of " El Once " in the center of the city . Things go from bad to worse , when Ariel's mother dies suddenly . Only Estela , the young woman who is in love with Ariel , comes to help father and son . Santamarina , who is a clean man , has to resort to take showers wherever he can . He chooses a ladies ' room in one of the subway stations . When the attendant , Elsa , finds him naked , she becomes furious , but she comes to her senses when she realizes the unhappy circumstances of this man who has seen better times . They become romantically involved , and Santamarina in one of his trips through the street garbage , finds an infant . Elsa , while surprised , wants to do the right thing . But Santamarina convinces her of the meaning of an innocent life in their lives will cement their love . Ariel , who has met the gorgeous Laura at work , begins a turbulent and heavy sexual affair with his beautiful co-worker , who unknown to him , is involved in a lesbian affair . Ariel who free lances by photographing weddings and other occasions , feels a passion for Laura , but he realizes what Estela has sacrificed in order to help his father and still loves him . Daniel Burman , whose " El Abrazo Partido " we thought was excellent , did wonders with this film . Things are put in its proper perspective after a second viewing recently and we must apologize for not having perceived it the first time around . If anything , this second time , the nuances of the screen play Mr . Burman and Emiliano Torres wrote , make more sense because they reflect the turmoil of what the country was living during those dark days . Daniel Hendler , who plays Ariel , has collaborated with Mr . Burman before to surprising results . He is not ' movie star pretty ' , yet , he is handsome . This actor projects a tremendous sincerity in his work . Enrique Pineyro is another magnificent surprise . His Santamarina is disarming . In spite of all the bad things that have fallen on him , he keeps a rosy attitude toward everyone he meets . Stefania Sandrelli , the interesting Italian actress , makes a great contribution to the film with her Elsa . Hector Alterio , one of the best Argentine actors plays the small part of Simon . The gorgeous Chiara Coselli is seen as Laura and Melina Petrielli appears as the noble Estela . " Esperando al mesias " proves Daniel Burman is a voice to be reckoned with in the Argentine cinema .
A mirror to society	Peter Brook's film adaptation of William Golding's " The Lord of the Flies " is still an interesting piece of cinema one doesn't get a chance to see too often . After more than forty years of its release , the film is still a good way to get to know Mr . Golding's masterpiece , as Mr . Brook stayed truthful with the screen play he wrote . The mere idea of children shipwrecked in an island to fend for themselves , as they make a world of their own , was quite revolutionary when Mr . Golding wrote the story . To witness what children are capable of doing in extreme circumstances is an eye opener . In fact , the children put into practice what they have seen of their society as they realize they are stuck in an island without any indication of anyone looking out for them . Although some criticism has been expressed in this forum about the way the accident happens , and the way the boys come from all parts as they first gather in the beach , Mr . Brook's intentions seem to be more into the theatrical staging of this scene as the different groups come together . The best scene being the group lead by Jack as they march on the beach singing Kirie Eleison in their sweet and melodious voices . Cruelty is the most notorious trait the boys display for one another . That , and the leadership that Jack wants to take away in forming his own tribe and the complete breakdown in the communication among the boys . Mr . Golding was telling us that given to certain circumstances , man , or children in this case , will revert into being savages and that perhaps society's role is to keep people controlled into what is known as a civilized world . Peter Brook made an excellent film , but perhaps his biggest achievement is the magnificent work he got out of the mostly unknown cast of young children . There are no false notes , especially in the principals . With the notable exception of James Aubrey , who plays Ralph , none of the other boys had a film career , although one sees the promise in some of them . Tom Chapin is good as Jack . Hugh Edwards gives a heart wrenching account of Piggy , the boy that is ridiculed by the rest and betrayed by Ralph in telling the new arrivals about his nickname . Tom Gaman as Simon also had some good moments . This film shows Peter Brook at his best .
Out of the past , into the future .	The previous films by James Mangold have been small triumphs for the director , who hasn't worked in a big budget feature with stars and the power of the Weinteins from Miramax behind him . It came as a very pleasant surprise to see this enjoyable and entertaining film make it big with a Christmas release date . Mr . Mangold proves he has what it takes to make it in Hollywood as he demonstrated before in the independent film circuit . This is a story of discoveries . For Leopold , the future , he hasn't even imagined to be like this . For Kate , the jaded advertising executive , is to observe the charming qualities in a true nobleman with impeccable manners and charm to disarm her . The interaction between Meg Ryan and Hugh Jackman works here very well and they fill the screen with style and flair . The rest of the cast is very good and blend well with the stars . Liv Schreiber very effective as the neighbor . Brekin Meyer , as Kate's brother is every sister's dream come true , nice but never obnoxious . This is a feel good film , not too brainy or contrived so one can forget one's troubles . It lets you sit back and have a nice time at the movies .
Lubitsch's magic	Ernst Lubitsch came to Hollywood in the years before the " Code " , or censure , if you will , that plagued all artists working during that era . This is a clear example of what could be done in the movies when the scissors of the censor were not in the picture , no pun intended . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading now . This film is based in an operetta . It's light , it's frothy , it's naughty , and it's a delight to watch it more than sixty years after it was made . Mr . Lubitsch was a genius in creating films that bore his signature like no other director of the time . His European background is constantly in display . He had a sensitivity for giving the viewer a glimpse of that old world he had left behind when he emigrated to America . Mr . Lubitsch worked with the best actors of the times . His choice of Maurice Chevalier , or maybe it wasn't his decision , but the studio's , pays handsomely in this movie . Mr . Chevalier brought his own style to the American cinema and he can be a bit strange in the way he reacts in front of a camera , but in spite of his school of acting , he went to become a favorite in this country too . Mr . Chevalier plays the bon vivant lieutenant in the Austrian army who has a roving eye for any beautiful woman that crosses his path . He finds that , and much more with Franzi , the violinist in charge of an all women's orchestra . It's clear what attracted Niki to Franzi ; she is a beauty who aims to please . There is no subterfuge in the relationship ; Franzi moves right in into Niki's apartment . This couldn't have been done in the movies later on , when the Hays code came into being . Claudette Colbert had a lot of charisma . In " The Smiling Lieutenant " she shows why she was a star in her own right . Ms . Colbert and Mr . Chevalier made these lovers look right . Nothing is done in the open and everything is done with great taste , although the viewer can guess what's really happening without too much guessing . To complicate matters , our lieutenant is fancied by a dowdy Princess Anna on a visit to Vienna . Since honor is at stake , Niki marries her , but his heart is left behind with Franzi . Niki doesn't want any part of this woman who has been imposed on him . When Franzi and the orchestra make an appearance in the neighboring country , Niki discovers her and they go back to their trysts whenever they find the time , to the chagrin of the princess . Franzi realizing she could never get Niki without causing a great scandal , gives in , and in the process , transforms the " ugly duckling princess " into a lovely swan . Miriam Hopkins playing Anna ends up with the man she wanted . The final scenes suggest that yes , they will have their fun after all . The set decorations of the film are breathtaking . The palace scenes , the costumes , take the viewer to the Austro-Hungarian empire . This film will please anyone looking for an easy time at the movies thanks to Ernst Lubitsch .
A dynamic duo	" Three Little Words " , MGM's tribute to two song writers that are not so well known , but who left behind a lot of beautiful songs , is a pleasant film from that era . Richard Thorpe , the director , clearly demonstrates he knew how to stage the material . Although not one of the best musicals the studio produced , and somewhat predictable , it offers a lot of entertainment . Best of all is the pairing of Fred Astaire and Red Skelton as the musical partners , Bert Kalmer and Harry Ruby . These actors do some nice work together as they came together to create musical comedy . Mr . Astaire's dancing partner is Vera-Ellen , who was a dominant figure in musical comedies . Mr . Astaire and Vera-Ellen do a good job in their dancing . A big surprise was to see a young Debbie Reynolds in her rendition of " I Wanna be Loved by You " , which later became associated with Marilyn Monroe's signature songs . The young Ms . Reynolds ' shows an amazing talent that would come to fruit in later films . Gloria de Haven and Arlene Dahl also grace the film with their presence , as well as Kennan Wynn , and other supporting players .
Large pizza pie , no onions !	Having missed this tight thriller in its commercial run , I recently caught up with it on DVD form . Joel Schumacher is a director that has given us films that are clever and witty and hold the viewer's interest at all times . In this film , Mr . Schumacher presents us with a New York PR man , who is one of the lowest forms of vermin that populate and manipulate the media . He is ruthless . This is a man with no scruples at all ; he is in for a rude awakening ! This guy is in for the surprise of his life when he is caught in a phone booth , probably the last one standing in the streets of Manhattan ! Of course , this is an allegory , perhaps his descent into hell . This man must think he is the king of the New York newspaper gossip column where he rules over the lives of other people . He is played brilliantly by Colin Farrell . All comes to a head when this character is threatened by an unknown voice on the phone that knows his very move . Is God taking revenge on this scum bag ? Could that voice on the other side of the wire be his conscience calling him to a reckoning ? Basically , the whole film is Colin Farrell coming to terms with his arrogance and being put down in his place by an unknown force , much too clever for him , or the police . The film has such an ironic twist that just when we thought we had solved the puzzle , we realize how wrong we were ! Mr . Schumacher has directed with a sure hand and keeps the film to a frantic pace .
Bird dog to the rescue	Never saw this film when it was released originally in 1988 . Not knowing what to expect , we decided to take a chance watching it on cable when it was shown the other night ; it was a complete surprise . Director Peter Markle , working with a magnificent cast , headed by Gene Hackman and Danny Glover , does wonders to recreate this story of valor under the worst possible circumstances . The cinematography is excellent . The film relies on visual effects , that are not to be confused with the incredible special effects that we have seen in other movies . Yes , of course , we all know that they are special , but the movie relies in the interplay between the missing Col . Hambleton on the ground and Capt . " Bird Dog " Clark who had the courage to stay focused , first in his plane , and later in the helicopter as he searches for this man , who he didn't even know . It's a tribute that these two military men in caring for one another in a difficult situation . Gene Hackman is an actor that always project convincing character . His take on the colonel is the real thing . Danny Glover , on the other hand , is on target . He demonstrates he has what it takes to hold it against big stars , like Mr . Hackman , or in his films with Mel Gibson . He is a joy to watch in his portrayal of a man who is an honest professional . For fans of action war movies , this is a more real approach to the genre thanks to the vision of its director Peter Markle .
It takes a village	This is a great opportunity for getting a first eye view about a civilization and a culture so completely different from ours , that it's worth the price of admission . Living in the remote Gobi desert , we encounter a small family that live from the sheep they raise and their camels , that are used as a form of transportation . The living conditions are primitive , to put it mildly , yet the family in the film seem content with what they have to live with . Most of the activities are centered around the home . As the film unfolds , we are witnesses to the amazing birth of the last colt of the season . It is an ordeal for the first time mother having this offspring , a labor that goes on forever , until the men of the village take matters into their hands and help with the birth . The white colt that is born in front of our eyes , has to be guided to the mother for his nourishment , only to be rejected by her . We watch as one of the women manages to milk the mother camel in order to feed the colt . When all fails , as the mother camel keeps rejecting the colt , they resort to a sort of a ritual that involves a violin player coming to the family's help to play music for the animal , and ultimately mother and son are miraculously reunited . The views of the desert are beautiful in their remoteness and desolation . Somehow we are drawn into this family's life in a way that we never thought we could get to know anyone . The final irony is that after the young children go into the nearest town they finally see their first television broadcast and are fascinated by it . The film is refreshing as it shows how the different members of this small family care for one another . They are fortunate indeed , because being away from all the consumerism and material things , they manage to stay focused in living under those conditions in that unfriendly environment .
Tosca lives !	We had seen this documentary when it was first released . It was a treat to watch it again recently . It is a joy to see all these old opera singers and musicians living in retirement at the house that Giuseppe Verdi , perhaps the world's best opera composer of all times , created for them to spend their last years . Daniel Schmid , the director , gives an encore to some of the residents at Casa Verdi when he made this documentary as a loving tribute to those that gave so much and are now forgotten . It is sad to think that most of the people in the documentary made in 1984 might not be with us any longer . The film showcases Sara Scuderi , a soprano who was one of the best during her prime . Like most of the other people living at Casa Verdi , she shares some of her memories for us . Best of all is watching her listening to her own recording of Tosca , an opera that she obviously identifies herself with . One can't help but wonder what goes through her mind at that time . Perhaps , her appearances at La Scala , or the Colon in Buenos Aires ? It must be hard for someone to find herself in that position after years of being acclaimed and in the limelight . There are others like Leonida Bellon , who sings in quite a strong voice arias from operas in which he appeared . His encounter with Sara Scuderi in one of the hallways where she , as Tosca , kills him , who is supposed to be Scarpia , just like in a performance and both stay in character . We are given a tour of the personal belongings by Giuseppe Mancchini , who shows us his costumes he keeps well preserved at Casa Verdi . Giulietta Scimoniatto , a leading soprano who is much younger that the rest of the people we meet , shares some moments about the importance of maintaining this refuge for the older musicians . Giovanni Puligheddu , a composer and the main conductor for all the singers in the residence , gives us a tour also of his many trophies and diplomas , and even gives a demonstration of one of his improvisations . For a man of his age , it is an amazing feat for him , or anyone else to be able to do what he does . Thanks to Daniel Schmid we are given a glance of some of the singers that were at their prime during the first half of the twentieth century . These opera performers and musicians are now waiting for their final curtain surrounded by the music they adored .
The master story teller	O'Henry's short stories are a joy to read . This master of the genre left behind a number of small gems that never seem to go out of style , as they are timeless . The author had an incredible eye to spot situations in which human beings are shown at a moment of crisis only to have fate intervene with ironic twists . " O'Henry's Full House " offers five of his best works directed by five distinguished directors . Howard Hawks , Henry Hathaway , Henry Koster , Henry King and Jean Negulesco do an excellent job in bringing the five stories to the screen adapted by some of Hollywood's best writers of the time in which they were filmed . John Steinbeck does the introductions . The first story , " The Cop and the Anthem " presents us with Soapy , brilliantly played by Charles Laughton , as a poor homeless person in the middle of a crude winter in New York who wants to be taken to jail in the worst way . He goes to extremes to have him sent to prison , without much luck . David Wayne plays his pal Horace and Marilyn Monroe is seen briefly at the end . The second installment , " The Clarion Call " shows a police detective , Barney , and his adversary , Johnny , a man to whom he is tied by a loan that stands between them . Dale Robertson is Barney and an annoying Richard Widmark plays the bad guy . Unfortunaly , Mr . Widmark's performance full of silly laughter and tics ruined the story for this viewer . The third tale is " The Last Leaf " . We have two sisters in the middle of a blizzard in Manhattan . Joanna , played by the fine Anne Baxter , who we see after an apparent breakup with her boyfriend , gets pneumonia as a result of her exposure to the elements . Her good sister Susan goes crazy trying to nurse Joanna to health . Enter the painter Behrman , who is the upstairs neighbor to the rescue . Behrman sells his painting in order to buy medicine and when Joanna in her feverish state believes the tree across the street full of dry leaves is an omen , because as the leaves keep falling , so are the chances for her to get well . Thanks to the caring painter , Joanna survives . Jean Peters plays the kind sister and the wonderful Ratoff is the painter . The fourth segment is the weakest . " The Ransosm of Red Chief " presents us two con men in Alabama kidnapping a young boy who is wiser and acts much older than what the two con men thought . Fred Allen and Oscar Levant play the kidnappers . The last , and perhaps the best realized story of the O'Henry's stories is the unforgettable " The Gift of the Magi " , which is the equivalent to Dickens ' " A Christmas Carol " . As directed by Henry King and played wonderfully by a beautiful Jeanne Crain and the handsome Farley Granger , this is a story about love and sacrifice under the worst possible circumstances . Della and Jim , with their youth , are penniless , yet , they sacrifice whatever little each one has in order to give the other partner a small token as proof of their love . This is an immensely endearing film thanks to the legacy of O'Henry .
Before midnight	This is a film that has an European look . Director Richard Linkletter has decided to continue the story in a way we can accept it . In Jesse and Celine , he has found an attractive couple who play well together and what's more important , they get our attention from the beginning . Jesse and Celine belong together , as it's obviously noted in the film . In spite of the movie being a continuous dialog , it never bores , but one can see that the picture is not for everybody . Mr . Linkletter's great achievement has been the fact that he kept it at 80 minutes long , anything more than that would had bored us , perhaps . Julie Delpy has a radiant beauty . She seems to be more mature for her years . On the other hand , Ethan Hawke shows more chiseled features ; he seems to be older . Delpy and Hawke play well together . As it happens when people that have a lot in common and where there's a real friendship , these two can stay away from one another , but the moment they meet , they pick up where they left off . Since the director and his two stars collaborated with the screen play , it is easy to see they all were very attuned to the material and it shows on the screen .
Fun in the sun with the natives	Haiti , one of the poorest countries in the world , attracted a special kind of sexual tourism . It didn't involve men looking for kinky sex , it was mainly older women who liked to spend some time with the young men they met at the beaches of the different resorts they patronized . The sex was an adventure as well as something they could well afford . Helen , a repeat visitor , has claimed for her stay the services of the handsome , slim , and charming Legba . Helen , a college professor back in the States , figures in Boston she could only aspire to have sex with older men who are cheating their wives . Here at the resort , she has picked the cream of the crop for her amusement during her summer vacation . Little prepares her to see someone else take claim of Legba , who she regards as her personal property . Brenda , a woman from Savannah , arrives at the resort , as the story unfolds . Having been there before with her husband , she had met Legba ; they had sex and the young man has made her come for more , not knowing she is stepping on someone's territory . Helen , in spite of her welcoming gesture , realizes she is competing with Brenda for the same young man . Legba and his friends are ubiquitous in other parts of the Caribbean resorts where they tend to go in search of adventure and a bit of money so they can have nice clothes that most of the time are given to them by the tourists . Legba , or his friends , are never accepted to eat at the restaurant , as it's made clear to Brenda by Albert , the hotel manager , who considers them a plague he rather do away with . Haiti was ruled at the time by Francois Duvalier , or " Papa Doc " , one of the bloodiest dictators in the Caribbean . His men roamed the country killing left and right . One of the higher ups in the government takes a young mistress , who happened to be in love with Legba . When she sees him on the street one day , she invites him for a ride , but she is marking him as a condemned man as far as the loyal driver is concerned . Legba will have no chance to keep on living after that encounter . Laurent Cantet , the huge talent behind the camera , keeps surprising his audience . He co-wrote the screen play with Robin Campillo , resulting in an impressive film in the way it's been set up and the rich texture Mr . Cantet gave to the production . Charlotte Rampling is seen as Helen . This actress is enjoying a second career in France . Ms . Rampling is one of the best things in the film . One can see in her face the emotions this woman of a certain age is going through after she feels betrayed by Legba . Karen Young , as Brenda , is also quite good . Evidently she never knew love in her marriage and she awakens with Legba in the kind of sex she has never experienced . Louise Portal plays Sue , the Canadian woman who is attracted to the sexual atmosphere and the attention from all the poor youths that look for tourists in order to make ends meet . Menathy Cesar , appears as Legba . Mr . Cesar shows why the women love him . He is charismatic and knows how to move . Lys Ambroise plays Albert , the proud man of a good family now reduced to manage this resort . Laurent Cantet clearly shows why he is one of the most interesting directors working in films today . He has no fear tackling themes other more established men would shun to deal with . His honesty permeates everything he does . This is a film recommended for mature audiences .
Hug me	" Abrazo Partido " is one of the better Argentine films that have reached us . Not having a market in the USA , if they are not shown in a film festival , they are not seen at all . The director , Daniel Burman working on the screen play with Marcelo Birmajer , show he is a talent to be reckoned with . The movie presents us with a small mini mall that one encounters all over Buenos Aires . The story is about all the operators of the tiny shops in the complex , but focuses on the Makaroff family . Elias Creations is operated by Sonia , a woman whose husband has deserted her and the two small sons . Elias , the husband has gone to Israel to fight in one of the wars and never returned . His memory looms large , especially in the case of Ariel , who secretly loves him , but resent the abandonment of the family . The camera work is incredible . The director gives us an excellent idea of the area of the neighborhood that at one time was dominated by the European Jews that emigrated to Argentina . Daniel Hendler , does a wonderful job in portraying Ariel , the young man who wants to do just the opposite of what his family did : return to Poland . The family left the horrors of their country by settling in the friendly atmosphere that Argentina offered at the time . Now , during a difficult time , the grandson of the original family wants nothing of his precarious life . His dream is to try his fortune in Europe , Poland , only being the excuse for getting an European passport that only his grandmother can provide , having been born there . Adriana Aizemberg plays the mother , Sonia . Ms . Aizemberg is wonderful as the mother who is so full of life and suddenly sees the world , as she knew it , coming apart . The grandmother , Rosita Londner , is also appealing . A new talent emerges in Argentina .
Breaking up is hard to do !	What do former lovers feel after they have ended a relationship and are suddenly thrown together by chance in a situation they can't just avoid ? The answer seems to be what Brooke and Gary experience after a long absence when they run into each other and practically have nothing to say to one another . Both lives are changed irremediably , so it's best to move on in order to avoid the pain . One of the reasons we liked " The Break-Up " was that it was not a typical Hollywood romantic movie that capitalizes on two well known stars , Jennifer Aniston and Vince Vaughn , two likable performers in their own right . In the case of Ms . Aniston , it appears she is reliving her own pain caused by a separation that probably was something she , or her adoring fans would never in a million years would have thought possible . Director Peyton Reed's take on the screen play by Jeremy Garelick and Jay Lavender , with the help of Vince Vaughn , is the right one . Here we are looking at two people that never should have been together , making a commitment to stay together , that sooner , rather than later was bound to prove Gary and Brooke how wrong they were . In the case of Gary Grabowski , he is fundamentally a man who is into himself and can't see what Brooke's needs are . It's a fatal mistake most couples make when the physical attraction plays a bigger role in determining the way their relationship will be like . Gary is a man who wants to do things his way . He will never see things from Brooke's perspective , taking her for granted in many aspects of their life together . Gary's personality will not let him see what he had with Brooke until he loses her for good . Toward the end , when things had gone too far , he wakes up , but it's much too late . Like most guys , Gary doesn't want to part with his buddies and the way they did things together prior to starting the relationship with Brooke . Jennifer Aniston does good work as Brooke . Vince Vaughn is a bit over the top in his portrayal of Gary , which in a way was the right approach to make us understand this man . The supporting cast makes the film believable . Valuable contributions by Joey Lauren Admas , Jon Favreau , Vincent D'Onofrio , Jason Batesman , Judy Davis , among others , fit well into the action . The cinematography by Eric Edwards captures Chicago in all its splendor . The music score of Jon Brion plays well in the background that includes a nice array of popular songs . The film ends as " I Can See Clear Now " , that seems to make a statement about all what we saw prior to this point . Unfortunately , a lot of comments to this site are downright negative because the film doesn't sugar coat what its main theme is and how two lives are changed forever , which is probably what the audience is not prepared to accept . Congratulations to director Peyton Reed in a film that probably will make more sense to some people if they would view it a second time .
The Kerbys in purgatory	" Topper " , the delightful and original film directed by Norman Z McLeod , should be seen more often . It is one of the best things Hollywood ever produced at the height of the madcap comedy craze of the thirties . In fact , just to watch Roland Young , Constance Bennett and Cary Grant in the same film is a dream come true . " Topper " has always been an old time favorite . We were treated the other night to watching it again , courtesy of TCM . The film's great black and white cinematography by Norbert Brodine looks good , even after these many years . Constance Bennett and Cary Grant made a fabulous couple . Ms . Bennett had the uncanny gift of blending with all her leading men well . She was a charming actress with such a sense of style and an amazing figure to boot that made her an irresistible presence on the screen . Cary Grant is also seen at his best in the film as the careless and fun loving George Kerby . Roland Young , in our humble opinion , steals the show ! He plays the staid banker Cosmo Topper , who is all business until he starts being made the object of the Kerby's antics . Cosmo Topper's wife is the incomparable Billie Burke , one of the most gracious actresses of that era . The rest of the cast is not too shabby . Alan Mowbray , Eugene Palette , Ward Bond , Hoagy Carmichael , and as an extra , Lana Turner could be seen backing the principals with their usual elegance and enormous screen presence . " Topper " is a film that should be " rediscovered " by new audiences , as it shows how great Hollywood could be when it wanted to be original . But above all , " Topper " should be seen for the fantastic Roland Young , who is nothing short of perfection in the film !
Duality in a macho society	The film has been shown in some festivals , but we don't think it had a commercial run in this country . We caught with it recently on DVD format . The movie , directed by Francisco Lombardi , is based on the novel by television personality and writer , Jaime Bayly , with an adaptation by Giovanna Pollarolo . The film is a frank account on the Peruvian society . It's clear from the start that Joaquin is gay . He has been sheltered by his mother , against his father's wishes . As a way to initiate the young boy in a the typical Peruvian man's world , Luis Felipe , the father , decides to take him hunting , with no good results . Then , the father takes the young man to one of Lima's best house of ill repute , an experience that ends badly . Joaquin likes Alejandra , the young college student . She feels the attraction as well , but Joaquin has an eye for attractive guys . When Gonzalo and Rocio appear at a disco , Joaquin feels attracted to the hunky young man . It's clear Gonzalo is also interested in Joaquin and thus begins their sexual involvement that will not produce the results either one expected . Gonzalo wants to keep seeing Joaquin , but wants to marry Rocio , but Joaquin , in a fit of anger confesses to the young woman her fianc is having an affair with him and they Gonzalo leaves him . The movie is a complex character study about the duality most of these rich young men of the upper crust of the Peruvian society and how they feel about casual gay sex . In a society dominated by the machismo , they must hide away in a married life that is a cover up for the way homosexuality is concealed . The film is honest in the way it deals with this subject . Santiago Magill makes Joaquin credible in his appealing performance . Lucia Jimenez is also good as Alejandra , the girl that loved him . Christian Meier plays the closeted Gonzalo . Giovanni Ciccia's take on the troubled rich boy Alfonso is right . The rest of the cast does an excellent job in portraying all the upper class people in the movie . Francisco Lombardi directed with panache this story about a taboo in that type of society .
My lips are sealed !	Only in French films , as well as in European ones , an actor such as Vincent Cassel would have a leading role . For that matter , so does Emmanuelle Davos . They are no stars by American standards . Yet , in the roles they play in this movie , they're quite effective . This thriller keeps you going . It is well paced and it has all the right elements for the ironic twist at the end . Director Jacques Audiard pulls it off with a sure hand . It was one of the most entertaining and light films that have come in from the French cinema in a while .
The age of innocence .	The atmosphere of this film took me back to another time and place , to a very naive and innocent Spain . This film is Garcia Berlanga's incursion into his own brand of neorealism . The music keeps evoking the scores of the great Italian masterpieces of that period . Placido , the hero , in a way , is everyman caught in a web of bureaucracy where he has to fight against all the odds to keep his vehicle in order to survive . He does whatever he can in order to pay the draft , but all conspires against him . Placido is a decent working person , a man of honor who has to fulfill his obligations , in this case , paying the draft that is due on the day the story unfolds . Everything is against him . We see him fighting his way to do so , in this , his long journey into the Christmas Eve celebration . Cassen was a marvelous and charismatic actor who was very convincing as Placido . He's always at the center of the action , and at times , he is even at the center of some of the other characters conflicts . Jose Luis Lopez Vazquez , is very effective as Gabino , the photographer . The rest of the ensemble cast perform very well under the direction of Garcia Berlanga . The film is a lot of fun .
Gilles and Marion	Francois Ozon , the brilliant French director , seems to want us wait until the end for the clue to solve the puzzle he is presenting for us in his latest film " 5X2 " . Mr . Ozon's film shows us five stages in the relationship between Gilles and Marion , an attractive couple whose marriage disintegrates in front of our eyes . Working with Emmanuelle Bernheim in the screen play , Mr . Ozon decides to present his story backward , a device that has been used before by other directors . Each one of the five vignettes that make the movie reveal a little bit more about Gilles and Marion and how every incident seems to contribute to pull them apart . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you would like to stop reading here . When we first meet the couple , they are sitting in front of a judge being read their divorce proceedings . Each one signs , and we figure , this is the end of the story , but no , when that scene ends , we watch Marion and Gilles walking along a hallway of a hotel where they are going to have one last sexual encounter , for old time sake . There is nothing that prepares us for the violence that Gilles exerts upon Marion . What might have been a good and amiable parting of the ways turn ugly , as it's clear Marion doesn't want anything to do with her former husband . The next sequence involves a small dinner party for Gilles ' brother and his boyfriend . It's clear this couple is open minded , they have no prejudices . It becomes apparent that in recounting an incident that happened some time before , involving an orgy at a party where Marion refused to participate , but Gilles seems to have enjoyed the experience , the only time , by his account , he has been unfaithful to his wife . The third part of the story has to do with Marion being pregnant and having to undergo a Caesarean section in order to save the premature son . Marion is seen calling Gilles at work . It's only logical that any normal would be father to go immediately to his wife at the hospital . But no , we watch as Gilles never leaves the office and when he does is to go have dinner . He arrives too late to be of any help , as the boy has already born , but the resentment from his mother-in-law , as well as from Marion , are clearly evident . Is it guilt Gilles is feeling that makes him act that way , or is he afraid to face the new responsibility ? The marriage of Gilles and Marion is presented next . We witness as the happy couple dancing at the wedding party . Gilles evidently has drunk too much and he is not in the least capable to have sex with his wife , who after coming to bed , realizes her man is no good for that night . Marion goes to the castle's gardens where she sits reflecting , perhaps , her experience . She is startled by a stranger , another guest at the hotel , that can't sleep . One can clearly see where this will lead and what is obviously going to happen : Marion is ready to consummate her marriage , even if it's not with her own man ! Returning at daybreak to her room , she is happy to realize Gilles has slept without stirring . The last segment of Gilles and Marion's story is perhaps the best . We meet Gilles and Valerie at a Sicilian resort . Marion arrives on her own . By coincidence , Gilles , who meets Marion at the beach , realizes she does work with his firm , but they have no contact . Gilles , who appears to be bored with Valerie , turns up at a remote spot in the beach where Marion is sunbathing . When Gilles asks her if she would like to swim , Marion answers she has been told not to attempt to go into the water because of the dangerous tides . Obviously , neither Marion , nor Gilles , heed the advice of the native wisdom and we watch them getting in the water slowly walking and then swimming into the sunset ! A sad mistake , indeed . This seems to be Mr . Ozon's point , one that makes a lot of sense in this , or any human relationship . What made this couple fail to live the way it is expected from them ? It seems clear these two should have stayed away from each other since we don't see anything solid between them at any time . The resentment and hurt have gotten the best out of both partners and nothing can repair their damaged marriage . The acting is first rate . Mr . Ozon gets excellent performances of the two principals , Valeria Bruni-Tedeschi and Stephane Freiss . Ms . Bruni-Tedeschi is a beautiful woman who brings a lot to her Marion . This actress projects a natural elegance in all her screen appearances and she proves to be an asset for the film . Mr . Freiss is also good as the complex man that Gilles is . We might end despising him by the way he is at the end , but we keep wondering whatever made him be this way . The supporting roles are well played by Geraldine Poilhas , who is seen as Valerie , the girlfriend who loses her man to Marion . Francoise Fabian and Michael Lonsdales appear as Marion's parents . This film solidifies Mr . Ozon as a man who is not afraid to delve into the human mind to find out what make his characters act the way they do in this frank , but refreshing look at a marriage in trouble .
Pont Neuf	Patrice Leconte's " The Girl on the Bridge " is a film that on second viewing seems better than when we first saw it . In a way , it appears to be a change of pace for M . Leconte , a man whose films have always been received well by his fans . As written for the screen by Serge Frydman , the movie presents a different take on love between two lonely people . In fact , this original film begins and end on bridges with a reversal in what Adele and Gabor are trying to do . At the start , it's Adele the one that is at the end of her rope , and at the conclusion , it's Gabor who does a complete role reversal when everything seems to be hopeless for him . Adele and Gabor never consummate their love as we follow when their lives comes together . Adele , during the interview with what appears to be either a social worker , reveals the sordid aspects of her life to the camera in an amazing sequence that sets the tone to the rest of the film . M . Leconte and his camera seem to be in love with the lovely Adele . The two principals , Vanessa Paradis and Daniel Auteuil are perfect in the film . Both actors do excellent work together . The magnificent black and white photography by Jean Marie Dreujou is perhaps the best asset for the film . The music score adds to the mood of the film .
Before Dr . Ruth and the others , there was Dr . Kinsey . . .	Bill Condon , working with his own material has come out with a movie that serves to illustrate how the work of Dr . Kinsey awoke the American public to a better understanding of their sexuality in ways no one , up to that point , had ever dared to show . As he proved with his other film , " Gods and Monsters " , Mr . Condon shows he doesn't mind tackling adult themes , so scarce in the present cinema . The film is documentary in style , as we are shown the life of Kinsey at different times of his life . He had an unhappy childhood . His father was a tyrant who never really showed love toward him . There are moments when the young Kinsey is shown as boy scout and there is an element of homosexuality that maybe , for fear , never came to the surface , but it's there , nonetheless . Dr . Kinsey's life takes a turn when he meets , Clara McMillen , who he calls " Mac " . It's with her that he begins a life of discovery in the field of human sexuality that was taboo in American colleges and universities at the time . Albert Kinsey was the first one that spoke about the things that were never said in polite company , or in the classroom , up to that moment . His life was dedicated to understand what made human beings act the way they did , never being judgmental , but with a tremendous insight to interpret the data and present it in a comprehensible way . A puritanical American society reacted strongly against the findings of Dr . Kinsey . He was a man ahead of his times when he decided to gather information about the sex lives of Americans and to publish the results in a best selling book . As Dr . Kinsey , Liam Neeson , showing an uncanny resemblance to the man , himself , does a wonderful job . He shows a complicated character who was not easily understood by his associates and students . As " Mac " , his wife , Laura Linney with a dark wig , gives an articulate performance of Mrs . Kinsey . Both actors are wonderful together , as they have already shown in the New York stage . Peter Sargaard , as Clyde , Dr . Kinsey's first assistant , shows he is an actor that will amaze from picture to picture . This actor has the ability to get under each of his character's skins to make them real , as is the case with his Clyde . Also , almost unrecognizable , Chris O'Donnell , who plays Wardell , one of the interviewers working with the doctor . Timothy Hutton is Gebhard , the other associate who was instrumental in gathering the information to help complete Dr . Kinsey's report . John Lithgow , as Kinsey Sr . has a fantastic moment with Mr . Neeson , as he agrees to be interviewed , revealing a horrible secret . It's a wonderful moment done with panache by both actors working under exceptional direction . There is a moment toward the end of the film where we see Lynn Redgrave speaking directly to the camera . It is one of the most effective moments in the film when this woman tells Dr . Kinsey about her life as a lesbian . Mr . Condon's film clarifies a lot about the genius of Kinsey and his contribution to society .
Housing shortage	George Seaton's " Apartment for Peggy " was a surprise that was shown on cable recently . This 1948 film is a wonderful reminder of how Hollywood used to make comedy by taking amazing talent out of a pool of superb cinema actors . The film is based on a Faith Baldwin novel , which the director adapted for the screen . " Apartment for Peggy " tackles the problem the housing shortage right after WWII . We are taken to a college town where some students are feeling the pinch and must adapt to whatever they could get from meager accommodations . It's this way how Peggy , a young pregnant wife of a student at the university , comes upon an attic apartment that Prof . Henry Barnes didn't even remember he had . Prof . Barnes wants to commit suicide , so Peggy , and her husband Jason , are in his way to accomplish the task . Prof . Barnes feels old and left out , when in reality , he has so much to give , not only to his newly found tenants , but to the community where he lives as well . Delightful performances by the cast was what George Seaton got from everyone . Edmund Gwenn makes an impression as Prof . Barnes . Mr . Gwenn was a man that went to enhance all the films in which he appeared . Jeanne Crain is the Peggy of the title ; a beautiful woman in the prime of her youth . It was obvious the camera adored her . William Holden made a likable Jason . Gene Lockhart is excellent , as always , but we didn't expect anything short of greatness out of him , or the rest of the cast . " Apartment for Peggy " will delight anyone looking for a good time watching this film .
Long night's journey	Paul Schrader is a director whose films should be seen more often . He is a man that never compromises and tackles adult themes with great panache , as he has amply demonstrated throughout his distinguished career . He was long associated with Martin Scorsese , but when he decided to go on his own , he showed his talent was there all the time . Mr . Schrader's films have a sense of style that are not easily matched by many of today's filmmakers . He knows what seems to work , and what not . His movies show a sophistication , as we mere mortals , are invited to participate , even though we haven't received the invitation in the mail . Most comments in this forum are excellent , so we won't even attempt to add anything that hasn't been said before . " Light Sleeper " is supposed to be one of Mr . Schrader's favorite films , and it's clear to see why . He has infused the film with characters that are easy to see why they are portrayed on the screen . Willem Dafoe is obviously an actor held in high esteem by Mr . Schrader . As John LaTour , Mr . Dafoe is at his most introspective self . His character shows a complexity that is hard to match . The rest of the cast is excellent . Susan Sarandon is perfect as Ann . Dana Delaney is Marianne . Mary Beth Hurt , Victor Garber , Sam Rockwell , David Spade , are seen in supporting roles . The great atmospheric music of Michael Been is heard in the background and it helps add another layer in the texture of the finished product . Edward Lachman does an amazing job with the way he photographed the film that includes a lot of night time scenes in Manhattan . Take a look at the film , as Mr . Schrader will impress , even a casual viewer .
St Vitus dance	Many ambitious parents that detect talent in their children , tend to subject them to lives that rob the kids of a childhood . That seems to be the case with Leo and Helen Von Holzen , the parents of the gifted Vitus . The boy shows , at an early stage , his aptitude for the piano . In making Vitus study and prepare for a career in music , the elder Von Holzens sacrifice his normal life as they make the young child into studying constantly in order to fulfill their own expectations for the child . One place Vitus feels at home is with his paternal grandfather , a crusty old man with a meager income , but with a lot of love to offer the boy . Vitus own reward is the interest he takes in his teen-aged baby sitter , but when the parents see in horror the surveying tape they have installed at home , they are horrified for watching their son being just a kid having fun . When we meet Vitus later on , he decides to rebel by jumping off the balcony of his parents ' apartment and survives miraculously . He begins by assuming a new personality that is just the opposite of his old self . Thus , he enrolls in a regular school , where he is bored stiff , but at least , he is surrounded by regular kids . Vitus father's company is not doing well , and Leo has a chance of losing his job . Vitus , who of course , is just as talented and intelligent as before , devices a plan to rescue his grandfather from almost poverty , as well as his own father . Fredi Murer , the director of the film , achieves a sure hit with this film that will charm audiences that look for a good and entertaining time in watching an uplifting film . Mr . Murer was lucky in securing the help of Fabrizio Borzani and Teo Gheorgiu , two young piano prodigies that are impressive as they play real music in the film . The best thing , though , is Bruno Ganz , the great German actor who is on hand to impress us with his own take on the grandfather . Mr . Ganz does an incredible job as the rumpled older man who is totally amazed by the innate intelligence of his grandson . Urs Jucker and Julika Jenkins appear as the ambitious parents who finally come to terms with their amazing son . " Vitus " is recommended for audiences of all ages . The background music is glorious , especially the last sequence where Vitus plays a concert in front of a live audience with a full orchestra .
You're not in Kansas anymore !	Scott Henderson , the engineer that employs Carol Richman , as his assistant , makes a point to call her " Kansas " , whenever he speaks to her . It shows us that Carol , effectively played by Ella Raines , is supposed to be a babe in the woods , as far as the Manhattan of the 40s was concerned . Only a woman , from out of town , would follow the shady bartender to a solitary elevated subway . Even then , only a naive girl could undertake such an adventure . Robert Siodmak directed this film noir very well . He shows a flair for infusing the story with a lot of raw sex that was surprising for those days . How else could we justify the way the drummer in the orchestra of the musical , where Scott takes the mysterious woman with an unusual hat , makes such an overt pass at a lady on a date ? The drummer played with high voltage by Elisha Cook Jr . doesn't hide his desires for any of the ladies who sat in the front row of the hit musical where he plays . It was a real explicit invitation , first to the " phantom woman " of the story , Fay Helm ; afterward , Cliff the drummer , insinuates himself very openly to Ella Raines who goes to the theater disguised as the mystery dame her boss had taken originally . This is a film that will hook any viewer from the beginning . There are things not explained in it , but it holds the one's interest throughout . The killer is not revealed until the end . Ella Raines with her expressive eyes was an under estimated actress . She holds her own against much more experienced actors . Franchot Tone , a New York stage actor , working in Hollywood , never found in this medium the fame he deserved . He is effective as the accused man's best friend . On the other hand , Alan Curtis , comes across as a man , who when framed , accepts his fate and is saved only by the tenacity of the woman who secretly loved him . Thomas Gomez , as the inspector Burgess , is an asset to the film as a detective who has his doubts the police had caught the man who committed the crime . This movie will not disappoint .
Swimming with sharks	Having seen the two later versions of this tale , it was a surprise to find the original one , even if it doesn't compare with the 50s remake with Judy Garland . This one is worth a look because of the great cinematography and the use of color for a film made in the early years of its invention . William Wellman deserves credit for his direction of a Hollywood story about itself . The mere idea of young and very naive , Esther Blodgett making it big in Hollywood , is stretching the imagination big time . This girl from the heart of the country yearns to be somebody in the pictures that are her escape from the dreary life she leads . To even think that she would have a chance in becoming a bit player , is a stretch of the imagination , but to have her become a star in her own right with her unsophisticated looks , is even harder to believe . Hollywood of those years was a factory of dreams where many went to be part of it , but for one Esther Blodgett , there were thousands who were rejected . We watch as Esther is transformed into Vicki Lester , a star larger than life , who captures the public's imagination and goes to eclipse bigger stars such as Norman Maine , her discoverer , and the man she falls in love with . Norman's decline is very fast , while Vicki's ascent into glory is even faster . His drinking habit will get the best of him at a time when help agencies such as A . A . didn't exist . Unfortunately for Vicki , she ultimately has to pay for her own meteoric success . The cast is superb . Not being a fan of Janet Gaynor , I have to confess that she strikes the right note with her Esther / Vicki role . She is totally believable even though we never even see her take an acting class , much less see her waiting tables to help herself . Frederick March brings an intensity to Norman , the self destructive star , that makes us pity him . Adolphe Menjou is the studio head who sees a winner in the young , aspiring actress , and gives her the chance . Most surprising of all is the star performance of Lionel Standing as Matt Libby , the studio publicist who is behind the creation of the new star . Andy Devine , May Robson , and the rest are equally satisfying . This film was a happy surprise in many aspects and will not disappoint .
Knitting	H . C . Potter's " Mr . Lucky " is a film that should be seen more often . This comedy gave Cary Grant a chance to portrait a different character from the ones his fans were expecting from him . The story of Joe Adams , a draft dodger , who is involved in illegal gambling , makes great sense because at the end , when all was said and done , he does the right thing and redeems himself . Joe is a gambler at heart ; it takes a beautiful woman to transform him into a caring man who will do good , in spite of what his original intentions were . As a comedy , " Mr . Lucky " , has some brilliant moments , especially those involving Joe , now Bascopolous , learning to knit to help make sweaters for the men fighting the war . The director imparted a light touch to this comedy , making us care for Bascopolous , when one should hate his intentions . In finding love with the beautiful Dorothy Bryant , Joe realizes she is the woman for him , in spite of the differences between them . After having cheated her , he takes money to repay what he took from her , even before he is confronted by Mr . Bryant and the police . Disappearing and going straight is clear at the end of the film when one sees Dorothy waiting at the end of the pier for his appearance . The film works because the tremendous performance Cary Grant gave in it . Even though he is supposed to be a bad guy , one never believes he is all that bad . Laraine Day is perfect as Dorothy Bryant , who doubted Joe's intentions from the beginning , but ends up falling for him because she sees a man who will do the right thing and will change his ways . The supporting cast is one of the strengths of the movie . Charles Bickford , Gladys Cooper , Alan Carney , Henry Stephenson , Paul Stewart , and the rest , are good following Mr . Potter's direction . The great black and white cinematography by George Barnes , compliments the film well . The screen play by Milton Holmes was helped by other uncredited writers , among them , Charles Brackett and Dudley Nichols , two distinguished screen writers that knew about comedy . Ultimately , this is a film carried by the sheer power of Cary Grant and the lovely Laraine Day and the inspired direction of H . C . Potter .
The pellet	Child abuse is not one of the things that film makers love to tackle . This practice seems to be universal , yet little about is seen . Acero Manas , the director of this movie that deals with this subject , is about one of the few that has come forward to make a case for the young children that are physically abused by a brutish parent . El Bola is a teen ager we meet playing a dangerous game at the railroad tracks near Madrid . It's a game where two opponents jump to pick up something from the track as a suburban train is about to pass by . Young Pablo is nicknamed " The Pellet " because of the ball he keeps with him as a token for good luck . Pablo's home life is marked by unhappiness and grief caused by the tragic death of a sibling . The sullen parents have to struggle tending the sick , and elderly mother of Mariano , the father . Pablo is made to help with the old lady's bath , something a small boy should not be called to do . Into Pablo's life comes Alfredo , who joins the class , evidently at the middle of the school term . Pablo sees a kind of normal pal in the new arrival and seeks the boy to be with . That meets with the father's wrath , as he considers the new friend as trash because Alfredo's father , Jose , is a tattoo artist . In reality , Alfredo comes from a good home with caring parents . Pablo sees a normal way of life in his friend's house . The friendship brings the worst in Mariano who beats the young man harder to the point that he needs medical attention . " El Bola " is a film that depicts the abuse openly and it hits the viewer as a low punch to the stomach . Nothing justifies the way Pablo is beaten senselessly by a father that should be made accountable for what he is doing to his son ; the images one sees are revolting . Director Manas makes his point in showing what an animal the old man is by taking all his frustrations on Pablo . The acting is good in general . Juan Jose Balleste plays Pablo with ease for a young actor who seems to be a natural . Pablo Galan is Alfredo , the true friend . Alberto Jimenez portrays Jose , and Manuel Moron makes a brutish Mariano believable . Achero Manas asks a lot from his audience . Although child abuse is a disgusting practice , it goes on , probably much more than one realizes . This is a crude film that doesn't offer any happy solution to the problem , or how to avoid it and it's an eye opener as to how the action of a man , that shouldn't have had children , and will scar the young son for life .
The proposition	Romain , the successful fashion photographer , is a nasty man . When we first meet him , he is making disparaging remarks about what he thinks about the clothes he has been commissioned to photograph . He is also seen with Sasha , his gay lover , during a sexual encounter where Romain inflicts pain to his partner . During a family dinner with his parents and his unmarried sister , Romain is downright rude and cruel to Sophie , a sibling he had loved dearly during their childhood . When Romain collapses during a shoot , he is taken to a hospital where a doctor has the results of the tests that were performed . It's clear there is something wrong with this young man . The doctor tells him about the inoperable tumor that is killing him and can't be operated . Romain's life begins spinning out of control as he must face a moment that will not take long to take his life . Sasha leaves him because he can't take the abuse and pain being inflicted upon him by Romain . The job in Tokyo collapses and Romain must start taking stock of his life and what is going to happen to him . Since he doesn't tell his parents and business associates , he decides to go and see his grandmother . Although the news devastates the older woman , she shows an inner strength as she doesn't want Romain to see the way the news has affected her . Before arriving at the grandmother's place , Romain stops at a rest stop where a kind young woman , Jany , engages him in conversation . She invites to visit again on his way back . During his return trip to Paris , he stops on the opposite side of the highway , where the husband of Jany works . Jany happens to pass by and goes to Romain . She has a proposition for the young man . Her husband is sterile and he can't give her a child . Jany proposes a no string attached sexual encounter with Romain , who doesn't agree to anything . Later on , while in Paris , and watching his health deteriorate , Romain has second thoughts and goes back to meet Jany with a counter proposal , one in which he wants Bruno , the husband to participate as well . Francois Ozon does it again . He does wonders with this new film , that in a way , as others have commented , reminds us of Agnes Varda's film " Cleo de 5 a 7 " , in which a young woman must reflect on her life as the news of having contracted a killer disease will end her life . Romain too must take into consideration what he has done with his existence up to this point as he tries to make amends that unfortunately come too late to ask forgiveness to the same people that he has hurt with his nasty attitude . The only way he can redeem himself is by agreeing to give Jany what she wants most in life , a child , that will be , perhaps , the only positive thing Romain will have done in his life . Mr . Ozon gets a splendid performance out of Melvil Poupaud , who as Romain makes a tremendous impression on us . His Romain goes from arrogant to being humble and kind as he watches his life come to an end . Jeanne Moreau plays Romain's grandmother with restraint . Ms . Moreau's character shows a strong woman whose life is near the end see her young grandson in quite a predicament . Valeria Bruni Tedeschi , who was seen in Mr . Ozon's " 5X2 " makes a valuable contribution . The hypnotic musical score serves the movie well . We hear themes from Charpentier , Arvo Part and Valentin Silvestroy in the background blending effortlessly with the action . The distinguished camera work of Jeanne Lapoirer is also an asset . Ultimately Mr . Ozon continues to amaze us with his vision and with his style .
What's real and what's fiction	This film owes a great deal of gratitude to the second collaboration between Francois Ozon and his leading lady , Charlotte Rampling . They ought to team up more . As with the previous film , Under the Sand , this is an enigmatic piece of cinema . This film , I believe , has more to do with Sarah Morton's imagination than with the actual story presented to us . There are so many hidden clues within the story that everyone will have a different take in what is presented in the film and what the actual reality is . Francois Ozon is not a boring director . He will always present an interesting story , fully developed , with many twists to get his viewer into going in different directions trying to interpret it all . Charlotte Rampling is magnificent as Sarah Morton , the repressed author of mystery novels . Ludivine Sagnier is very good as the mysterious Julie , the alleged daughter of Sarah's publisher , but now , is she really that person ? The ending will baffle the viewer . This is a film that will stay and haunt one's mind for days .
Fred and Ginger	After hearing Fred Astaire put his stamp in a song , it's hard to imagine anyone else attempting to improve in what seems to be the definite rendition of it . That is the case when Mr . Astaire sings Cole Porter's elegant " Night and Day " . In pairing Ginger Rogers with Mr . Astaire , Hollywood hit the jackpot as it produced a winning combination that went from film to film with such ease and panache , it will never be imitated . Mark Sandrich worked with Ms . Rogers and Mr . Astaire in several movies . Somehow , " The Gay Divorce " is one of their best collaboration . This film is a lot of fun to watch , even after more than 70 years after it was made . It speaks volumes for all the people involved in the production of this movie . The Great Depression was the right background when movies like this were made . In a way , it was an escape from the harsh realities of the times America was going through . The public went to the movies to see their favorite stars that were shown in such a glamorous roles . How could anyone not admire the great Fred Astaire , always impeccably dressed ? Or how could not any woman in the theater envy Ms . Rogers's beauty and easy grace ? That era made it right for Hollywood to show the world a sensitivity and sophistication that only few rich types were able to enjoy in real life , while the rest was trying to eke out a life of whatever work they could find . The musical numbers are amazing . " The Continental " alone , must have blown the budget of the picture . Imagine how much it would cost today to have all those dancers in a sound stage ! Not only that , but in that lengthy number , there are at least four changes of costumes for the women . Also , he is delightful singing " Looking for a Needle in a Haystack " . A young and radiant Betty Grable makes an appearance singing " Let's K-knock K-knees " in which she shows a bit of her enormous charm and talent . Ginger Rogers makes a gorgeous Mimmi Glassop . Alice Brady , is perfect as the dizzy Aunt Hortense . Edward Everett Horton plays an excellent Egbert Fitzgerald , the divorce lawyer . Erik Rhodes is one of the best things in the film ; his Signor Tonetti injects a funny shot into the movie . Eric Blore , as the waiter , has great moments in the movie . In setting the film in London and Brighton , a rich texture is added to this winning picture that will remain a favorite that will live forever because of the chemistry that Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire produced in anything they did together .
Breaking the bank	This is a comedy the talented Alec Guinnes did for the Ealing studio in the early part of his career . Of his Ealing days , he left us a legacy that is hard to surpass : " Kind Hearts and Coronets " , " The Ladykillers " and this one , that comes to mind . Directed by Charles Crichton and written by T . E . Clarke , this is a fun movie that in spite of the years since it was filmed , it still charms its audiences , young and old . The background is a London , right after the war . The film is original in that it takes us all over the city to places that one can identify so clearly , even after more than 50 years ! It speaks of how careful are the English not to destroy their monuments . As the would be robbers , Henry " Dutch " Holland is a man with a plan . He recognizes in his neighbor of the Lavender Hill rooming house , Alfred Pendlebury , a kindred soul that will see his proposal of how to steal the precious gold bullion from the Bank of England . It's a big operation , yet , only four people are needed to carry on the job . This is a comedy of errors , where the best laid plans go awry in the small details the gang hadn't planned . The sure thing becomes a dead giveaway to the authorities once Holland and Pendlebury decide to go after the souvenir one young student bought in Paris that is part of the loot . Prior to that , the scenes in Paris at the Eiffel Tower was an original sequence for a movie that relies on intelligence rather than in overblown special effects . Alec Guinness is charming as the master mind behind the heist . Stanley Holloway , a great English actor is magnificent as the man with an artistic eye , who almost derails the operation . Sid James and Alfie Bass contribute to make the film the joy it is with their comic presence . In a small cameo that comes and goes so quickly , we watch a young and elegant Audrey Hepburn makes an graceful appearance . This is a film for all Ealing fans of all ages .
Gourmet dining	Heaven help anyone invited to eat at Chez April . The girl doesn't even know how to peel a potato ! Beware to those that come to her small Manhattan apartment : Bring your own digestive remedies for after the incredible meal she will serve her guests . . . Peter Hedges is a very good writer whose novels I have read with a great deal of pleasure . We have to thank him in his directorial debut , but please don't stop writing fiction . This film is a feast because of the vivid characters Mr . Hedges has created . Mr . Hedges has accomplished something very important with this film in casting actors that fade into the people they portray on the screen . April's family is somehow dysfunctional . She has moved away from home in order to do the same things that were not allowed in the middle class suburb where she grew up . Thanksgiving seems to be the perfect time to make amends with the family and show what she has accomplished on her own . Well , the family is in for a big surprise indeed ! Katie Holmes is an interesting actress to watch . She melts herself into this April , who cannot get a dinner together for all the money in the world , even though she has the best intentions . Patricia Clarkson , as Joy , again shows how she can get inside this mother who has a short time to live . Also , Oliver Platt , as the father is very good . I particularly enjoyed the presence of Lillias White , a huge talent in the New York stage , as April's neighbor who is willing to share her kitchen with this crazy neighbor in need . Just be warned to eat at your own risk . . . .
Awakenings	Lucrecia Martel , the director of " The Holy Girl " gives us an erotically charged account of a young woman's awakening to a world that she seems not to be ready for . Ms . Martel combines a mixture of religion and eroticism in the narrative of the film . As always , the director gathers an interesting cast to tell her story . It's interesting to read some of the negative comments to this forum . Most perceive the film as boring and slow . In fact , the film is far from that , and it was surprising to see the movie the other day at the Lincoln Plaza complex with a theater half full and nobody walked out of the film , something that we have witnessed viewers to do with other , more acclaimed features . Ms . Martel takes us to a remote spot in Northern Argentina , an improbable place for holding a medical convention . At the same time , the director , in an interview we read , tells about how the location , which she knew from having been as a guest , made an impression on her and she based her story at the hotel . Amalia is a young girl that is just awakening to a sexuality that goes against her upbringing . We see her surrounded by her school mates and the loyal Josefina , her best friend . Ines , who seems older , leads the group in prayer , perhaps to get the young women's mind into their latent sexual awakenings . Amalia lives in the hotel with her mother , an attractive woman who seems to be oblivious to what's going on with her daughter . In fact , one gets the impression the mother enjoys whatever sex she gets to the fullest . Enter the roguish Dr . Jano . He is on his own , attending the medical conference , although he is married and has about four children . When Dr . Jano goes into town he spots a group watching a street performance and immediately gravitates toward the beautiful young woman he sees as someone he can casually rub himself against the girl without attracting attention . Amalia realizes what's going on and starts following this enigmatic man , who proves to be elusive in the open . He is more of a voyeur rather than a man that would lead Amalia into an open sexual encounter . Everything is done in a subtle way , which in a way works better because of the shock it provokes on the viewer . In a way , Ms . Martel makes us voyeurs because through her camera , she makes us watch what Dr . Jano is doing to Amalia . The acting Ms . Martel got from the principals is amazing . Maria Alche is a girl of great beauty . She is an intense young woman who fits perfectly in the story . The other good performance comes from Carlos Belloso . His Dr . Jano is an enigma as we watch him . In a way it shows this man as a duplicitous person who being married , will go and try to get his thrills in dark places , probably sitting next to unsuspecting young women in movies , or wherever he can be aroused without being obvious . Mia Maestro is Ines , the pious woman who is seen giving religious instruction to the girls . Julieta Zyberberg is good as Josefina and Mercedes Moran also has great moments as Helena . This is a disturbing film , but one that dares to speak of things that other film makers avoid . Ms . Martel shows she is a director that doesn't mind taking chances .
Cat burglar	With the magnificent setting of the French Riviera , " To Catch a Thief " is beautiful to look at . Alfred Hitchcock , the absolute master of suspense , appears to be having a lot of fun with this playful account of the rich and famous in their playground . The film is greatly enhanced by the magnificent photography of Robert Burke whose camera does wonders to show us that beautiful part of France . The film begins with a teasing sequence where one sees a black cat running wildly on the roofs of villas , and later on , hysterical ladies are seen screaming when they realize they have been burglarized . The police links John Robie to the robberies since it appears it's his own modus operandi . In order to fool the authorities that are following him , John boards a bus full of ordinary people bringing things to the market and we catch a glimpse of Hitchcock himself , sitting in the back of the bus , next to John . This is the amazing opening for this film , which shows a lighter Hitchcock , out for a good time . We then meet the rich Stevens , mother and daughter , who are vacationing at the posh Carlton Hotel in Cannes . The insurance agent , Hughson , introduces Robie to them . Hughson wants the Stevens women to be careful with their jewelry ; at least , have them keep their gems in the hotel's safe , which they will not hear of . This seems to be an excuse for bringing together John and Frances , a beautiful and elegant woman who makes a point to show how much she hates having even a conversation with Robie , who will display all his charm and ultimately win her over . The best asset in the film is the elegant and ravishing Grace Kelly , at the height of her beauty . Ms . Kelly was one of the most beautiful women ever to grace the screen . In a way , it seems almost as though this film was prophetic in what would happen in her life . First , becoming the fairy tale princess of Monaco , and later on , to die in the same highway one sees her racing her car . Ms . Kelly , dressed by the incomparable Edith Head shows an innate elegance and a great flair to carry clothes in such a wonderful manner . Cary Grant , as John Robie , was at his best portraying the debonair former jewelry thief , a man with a past that had not committed a robbery for many years now , but whose fame preceded him everywhere . Mr . Grant and Ms . Kelly make a great romantic couple whenever we see them . Mr . Hitchcock got a lot out of these two actors and in the process , gives his fan something to care for . John Williams is excellent as the insurance agent trying to protect his clients . Mr . Williams was a superb actor who almost seems not to be acting at all . The same can be said for the chic Jessie Royce Landis , who always showed she was a smart and elegant actress . While this is a film so different from most of his other films , Mr . Hitchcock shows a great affinity for comedy in it . This proved to be a pause in his distinguished career to amuse his public . How well he succeeded !
In the life	This Uruguayan film is surprisingly good . Not being acquainted with either the director , or the film , as I don't think it has been shown locally , I decided to take a look . It certainly was a welcome surprise what director Beatriz Flores Silva has accomplished . The story centers around Elisa , a young single mother , who must make ends meet by going into the world's oldest profession . Elisa , like other young women , I'm sure , is lured into taking a big leap into the riches that Placido suggests are not to be believed doing that kind of work in Barcelona . Elisa gets more of what she bargained for . She is beaten by Placido and the reality is that she is part of a lucrative business not to be realized by her , but her pimps and the mafia that controls it . It seems incredible that someone as intelligent as Elisa is , falls into this world where women are in danger by working the mean streets in the old quarter of the city . The film owes a great deal to Mariana Santangelo , a young actress who is a natural . She is an excellent actress who knows the character she is portraying . Andrea Fantoni , as her best friend , Lulu , also is very effective in the film . Silvestre as Placido , the suave pimp , plays his part well . Finally , Jose Linuesa , is also good as Marcelo , who is the only one that helps Elisa escape her horrible experience in Spain .
Fried red potatoes	For a film that won the audience award at Sundance , this film must have played briefly in this area , as I have no memory of it when it was released . I saw it on cable recently ; it was a surprise , but in retrospect , there are a few things that bothered me later . It appears this is the first film for the director . Lee David Zlotoff is a product of television , as far as I've learned . Not having seen anything he has created before , I can only compare this film to similar fare one sees in the " movie-of-the-week " film made for that medium . I have no way of knowing if the accents these actors speak are really from Maine , or from the South , as I have never met any one from that state where the action takes place . That said , the film will not disappoint because it tells a good story . It's easy to like , although it is predictable . Young Percy Talbot can't shake her past . Instead of fleeing to a big city and getting lost there , she selects the small town of Gilead in rural Maine . Her choice of locales will proves Percy wrong . In the town , she manages to touch the lives of a lot of the local folk , who in return , show her kindness , after an initial rejection . Allison Elliott was effective as the young woman . Ellen Burstyn , as Hannah , is quite good . Marcia Gay Harden underplays Shelby , the woman who gains Percy's trust . Will Patton is the only one that has nothing to do in the film .
Singing in the Rain . . .	Mira Nair has outdone herself in this film by giving us such a glorious look at India's upper classes during a pre-arranged wedding . She has such a sense of color and spectacle , yet she doesn't beat around the bush in presenting us the reality of the situation and treating it with dignity and realism . The hypocrisy of Bollywood is legendary by not attacking issues in their films , yet they are real and need to be addressed . The mere fact that this bride is not what she's supposed to be on the surface , is an eye-opener . Then there's a relative who is a pedophile and who has hidden behind a benevolent facade only to pry on the little ones of his own people . This is the first time I have seen such frank treatment of a troubled family , who is very happy , on the surface . The acting is first rate with outstanding performances by Mr . Shah , as the father of the bride and his daughter , Ms . Das . Not only that , but Ms . Das has one of the most beautiful faces in the Indian cinema and certainly deserves to be seen anywhere with those gorgeous eyes of hers . The weakest part , I thought , was that of the romance of the party planner and the maid . I mean , HELLO , Ms . Nair , do you think for one nanosecond this uppity family would have allowed the maid and her newly found love participate in the wedding party ? I don't think so ! The color of Delhi's streets , the magnificent wedding costumes and the glorious background music are used with knowledge and a sure hand by Ms . Nair . Having seen all her films , we await eagerly for more of her view of her home land . We can even go singing in the rain after seeing the film !
Contempt	Of the three remakes on W . Somerset Maughan's novel , this one is the best one , and not particularly because what John Cromwell brought to the film . The film is worth a look because of the break through performance by Bette Davis , who as Mildred Rogers , showed the film industry she was a star . Finally , her struggles with Jack Warner and his studio paid off royally . The film is dominated by Mildred from the start . We realize from the beginning that Mildred doesn't care for Philip and never will . She doesn't hide her contempt for this kind soul that has fallen in love with the wrong woman . He will be humiliated by Mildred again , and again , as she makes no bones about what she really is . Poor Philip Carey , besides of being handicap , is a man who is weak . When he tries to cling onto Mildred , she rejects him . It is when Mildred returns to him , when she is frail and defeated , that he rises to the occasion , overcoming his own dependency on this terrible woman who has stolen his will and his manhood . Bette Davis gives a fantastic portrayal of Mildred . This was one of her best roles and she ran away with it . Her disgust toward the kind Philip is clear from the onset of their relationship . When she tells him she washes her mouth after he kisses her is one of the most powerful moment in the movie . Leslie Howard underplayed Philip and makes him appear even weaker than he is . Frances Dee , Reginald Denny , Alan Hale and Reginald Owen , are seen in minor roles . This is Bette Davis show , and don't you forget it !
Love in war time	Movies like this one are discoveries . Mervyn LeRoy was a director that always knew where to go for a good story and get amazing performances out of his actors . In this film he demonstrates how to create a movie that holds the viewer's attention . It is based on a story by Sidney Kingsley and was adapted by Jan Lustig . The movie shows the American cinema at its best as it combines a look to WWII and a forbidden love , something that probably had a hard time passing the censor's scissors . Mr . LeRoy makes the picture highly engrossing because of the way he presents the story . Men and women , for the first time were in the front lines ; the men as combatants , or in this case , a doctor and the women as nurses , or filling in for the jobs the men couldn't do because they did the fighting . Clark Gable was an actor that made this picture the joy it is to watch by making us believe he is this surgeon , Dr . Lee Johnson , a man that awakes to reality when he has to deal first hand with treating the wounded soldiers . Mr . Gable casts such a virile shadow in his best work that we know where he stood all the time . His Dr . Johnson shows the strain of the stress of war , the loyalty to his wife at home and the sudden love he finds for " Snapshot " McCall . He remains throughout the film focused in helping the soldiers , until the passion he feels for his nurse , gets the best of him . Lana Turner is the real surprise of the movie . She is playing a role that probably would not have been offered to her because of the heat and glamour she projected . Her nurse McCall is a woman that life has made a cynic because of the tragedy in her own life and the fact that she is separated from her young son . The magnetism between Ms . Turner and Mr . Gable is what keeps us interested in the movie . Lana Turner shows she had the potential for playing dramatic parts that were not offered to her ; she was type-casted as the siren , or the sophisticate in most of her work , but she had the range and the potential that probably only Mr . LeRoy , who discovered Ms . Turner , saw she had . Only a director like Mr . LeRoy could elicit this performance from Ms . Turner . Anne Baxter is the wife that stays home hoping her man will come back alive . Her Penny Johnson makes her appear as insecure because she perceives her husband's affection might lie with the nurse that he complains to her at the beginning of his correspondence . John Hodiak plays the friend , Dr . Sunday , a man who has his feet on the ground and believes he should help the poor people of his area , instead of the society types that Dr . Johnson attracts . The movie is satisfying because is tells a good story with characters one is easily identified with . Mr . LeRoy was the one that got all the elements together and gave us this classic film that is timeless .
Laugh riot	Mario Cantone , the amazing comedian , is a talented man who brought his own brand of comedy to Broadway in 2004 . This presentation was an amazing triumph for the actor , who has not had the recognition he deserves . His one man show was originally directed by one of the best directors working in the theater today : Joe Mantello . Showtime ought to be complimented for bringing Mr . Cantone's act for all those unfortunate fans that couldn't get in his sold out show , one of the brightest things on the New York stage , last year . We were fortunate in attending one of the performances at the Cort theater , but couldn't resist watching the comedian again . Mr . Cantone is a man who has a fast delivery . His take on Liza Minnelli and Judy Garland was hysterical . His take in his own family is funny . The material is excellent and it made ninety minutes go by so quickly , we don't realize it's time to say good bye to Mr . Cantone and hope he will return with another show .
A hired assassin	We find Tom Ripley living in luxury in one of the most spectacular Palladian villas in the middle of the beautiful Northern Italian setting . He is a man of excellent taste , as proved by the transformation he made on the villa . Since Ripley appears to be retired now , it's a surprise when someone from his past , Reeves , a Cockney gangster , comes to see him . Ripley feels slighted by a local picture framer , a British young man trying to make ends meet . When Ripley is invited to a party at Jonathan's house , he overhears his host talking about him in the most shameless fashion . When Reeves appears on the scene , he realizes how is he going to get even with Jonathan . By recommending the man who spoke unkindly about him to Reeves , he will get his own revenge . Since Jonathan is suffering from leukemia , Reeves entices him to perform a nasty job for him in Berlin and with the offer goes a visit to one of the top doctors in Germany . Jonathan , who feels repulsed by the indecent proposition realizes how cash strapped he is and complies , albeit reluctantly , with the gangster . Of course , Jonathan is now vulnerable and Reeves knows perfectly well what he will ask him to do next . The second job involves the elimination of a mafioso that is causing problems for Reeves . Jonathan receives specific instructions about how to do the job , which is to take place on a train . To his surprise , Jonathan discovers that Ripley has come to help him . Tom feels his revenge on the picture framer is past history and since Jonathan is married and has a small boy , he steps into action . Tom Ripley , is one of the most sophisticated bad guys ever created by the excellent Patricia Highsmith . This cool man is capable of doing some of the most daring things . Liliana Cavani , an Italian director with an eye for detail , set this story in her native land and also contributed with the adaptation of the novel with Charles McKeown . The result is an enjoyable film that will impress fans of this genre . John Malkevich does a fabulous job with Tom Ripley . Mr . Malkovich clearly understood the nature of Ripley and gives a cool performance . Dougray Scott , who is seen as Jonathan , is perfectly cast as the picture framer dying from cancer . Ray Winstone does what he does best in his take of Reeves , a cruel man who wants to get rid of his enemies by paying other people to do the dirty thing for him . Lena Headey plays Sarah , Jonathan's wife , who is horrified when she discovers what her husband has done . " Ripley's Game " shows a Liliana Cavani at a nice point in her career . The film has a beautiful music score by Ennio Morricone and a brilliant cinematography by Alfio Contini , who takes the film through several picturesque locations for the viewer's enjoyment .
The director talks !	Kevin Smith is a talented writer and director . His films resonate with young people because he is a man who doesn't care to speak about whatever comes into his mind . This documentary , taped during some of his appearances at different universities , clearly shows how Mr . Smith and his audiences bond because he speaks their language . The adoring fans are seen rapt in what their idol has to say . He is a man that doesn't b . s . these kids and therefore gains their trust from the moment he first opens his mouth . What comes out of that mouth is some of the funniest and most irreverent talk one has heard in presentations such as these . Kevin Smith is not shy in telling his anecdotes about his experiences with the higher ups of the movie industry that don't seem to tame him , in spite of their efforts to tempt him to come to their side . Never fear , it appears unlikely this funny man would ever cross that line .
The conjurer	Early in life , Eisenheim understands how his destiny is going to be tied to magic . Unfortunately for the young man , after falling in love for a rich young girl , Sophie , his powers prove to be a failure when he can't prevent the young woman from being taken away from him . Sophie will always keep the locket with a secret mechanism Eisenheim made for her as a reminder of his love . For fifteen long years Eisenheim roams the world trying to perfect his craft as a magician . When the time is ripe , he returns to Vienna to look for his long lost love and to dazzle audiences with his amazing tricks . It is at his Vienna appearances that his fame reaches the crown prince Leopold , who wants to see this illusionist . He is accompanied to the performance by Sophie , who is now Leopold's love interest . When Eisenheim asks for a volunteer for one of his magic tricks , it's Sophie who goes to the stage . Eisenheim recognizes his beloved Sophie who still wears the locket around her neck . Things get complicated when Eisenheim is asked to do a performance for the prince at the palace . The one trick that stuns everyone is when the conjurer asks the prince for his sword , which he makes stand on the stage . He then asks members of the audience to try to lift the sword , which magically remains glued to the ground . Only when he tells Leopold to take the sword back , the sword is released to its rightful owner . That sword will yield a valuable clue to the mystery we are witnessing later on . Eisenheim made an admirer in Uhl , the chief of police who is impressed by what he sees Eisenheim do on stage . Uhl will be the only man who will understand the secret that Eisenheim keeps in his heart . This highly enjoyable movie directed by Neil Burger , is based on a short story by Steven Millhauser . The adaptation by Mr . Burger gets a great treatment for the screen . The film is helped by the interesting score of Philip Glass . Mr . Burger has done wonders with the way he envelops the audience with magic as one watches in amazement how Eisenheim performs his thrilling act . Dick Pope photographed the movie in dark tones that reflect the mood of most of the action on the screen . His take on the Czech exteriors strike the right note . Naomi Geraghty must be congratulated for the editing , since it involves the way the viewer perceives the tricks being done by Eisenheim . Edward Norton gives a wonderful performance as Eisenheim . He is clearly a man with a mission in life and he has returned to his native land to take what he believes is rightfully his . Paul Giamatti's Inspector Uhl has some good moments too . Lovely Jessica Biel is seen as Sophie and Rufus Sewell plays the crown prince Leopold . " The Illusionist " will not disappoint fans of Edward Norton because the good work of the director , Neil Burger , did in adapting the original material for this highly engrossing picture .
A candid portrait of Rosie	Rosie Perez is a woman who has distinguished herself for her work in films and in the theater . She was also a dynamo choreographer that made that old TV series " In Living Color " come alive with her inspired dances that were amazing . Now , she returns as co-director with Liz Garbus of this enormously appealing documentary where she shows her proud heritage as a Puerto Rican . We are taken by Ms . Perez , and her sister to visit her relatives . The extended family include relatives in New York , Puerto Rico and Florida , where we accompany her in a voyage of discovery . Rosie and her family prove they have a rich heritage living in two cultures . Together with her sister and a cousin , Sisto , they exchange their views about what being Puerto Rican means to them . This 86 minutes is much too short as we get involved in the stories and the folklore the proud Rosie has to tell . There is also a comprehensive history of Puerto Rico and the people that made it great . She pays tribute to Pedro Alvizu Campos , the man who did so much for the island without asking anything in return . Also , the 60s group , the Young Lords ' work in the community is pointed out . The narration by Jimmy Smits serves well the documentary , but it's Rosie's personality and ebullience that keeps us wishing for more and more .
Birthdays	Ernst Lubitsch was a man destined to take the play in which this film is based to the screen . The results are amazing . This 1943 movie continues to charm audiences after all these years . Credit must go to the great Lubitsch who shows his light touch on this delightful comedy . Since the film is based on the play " Birthday " , by Leslie Bush-Fedeke , the main idea behind the action is to present us Henry Van Cleve as he ages . The film opens as Henry is descending a long flight of stairs . He is an old man now . Henry meets an elegant man at the desk who will decide whether he will go down to hell , or to heaven . The story then goes back in flashbacks to show us what this Henry was really like while he lived . Henry Van Cleve is part of a wealthy family from New York . When the film opens Henry is celebrating his 10th birthday . This involves being introduced to a French governess who will transform the boy for life . Then we see Henry as he is going to celebrate his 25th birthday . This is a most important date for him because he meets and falls in love with the lovely Martha Strabel , a beauty from Kansas , that is his idiotic cousin's fiance . Needless to say , the handsome Henry falls in love with her and they elope . Life has a way to get in the way of Henry as we see how he is handed tragedy when he loses his lovely Martha when she becomes sick . Ultimately , Henry himself , a mere mortal , dies after a long life that has been spent alone , living dedicated to his own son . " Heaven can Wait " is a lovely film . Much credit has to go to its stars , Don Ameche and Gene Tierney , who make an excellent couple . They were at the top of their careers and guided by Mr . Lubitsch , their romance , while sweet , it's not sugary . Ms . Tierney's beauty adorns this film and Mr . Ameche is seen at his suavest self . The supporting cast was a director's dream come true : Charles Coburn , Marjorie Main , Eugene Palette , Spring Byington , Louis Calhern , Laird Cregar , among others , give the film the elegance that Mr . Lubitsch used so well to enhance the movie . A classic that will live forever !
Alice doesn't live here anymore !	" What Alice Found " was a pleasant discovery . As written and directed by A . Dean Bell , this is combination of a road movie with a cautionary tale , as well as a voyage of discovery . If you haven't seen the film , maybe you should stop reading here . Alice is a case study of a young woman that wants to break away from the unhappy life she leads in a New England town . Her pretext for leaving is going to join her best friend , who is away studying at a Miami university . Alice is the product of a single mother's home , one that is struggling to make ends meet , in sharp contrast with the life of ease her friend seems to inhabit . In flashbacks we get to see Alice's life before going on the road . Alice , like her namesake in " Alice in Wonderland " , embarks in a trip to the unknown that life hasn't prepared her for . The highways of America are full of predators in search of the weak and innocent . Alice meets with disaster when her car breaks down the road and a friendly Southern couple come to her assistance when a strange man approaches in the darkness with the excuse he wants to help her . Sandra and Bill convince her to come along in their plush R . V . on her way down South . Nothing has prepared Alice for what this couple turns out to be . After all , in her sheltered life , she hasn't dealt with what Sandra and Bill , her new benefactors do during the overnight stays at the rest stops in the American highways . It comes as a shock to her the realization that the kind Sandra is nothing but a prostitute that plies her trade among the truck driving populace one meets in those places . Alice , brilliantly played by Emily Grace , is a study in how the young woman awakens to the new reality she can't escape . In fact , Sandra makes it seem so easy that Alice tries her luck at the oldest profession on earth in order to raise some badly needed money . Judith Ivey gives a tremendous performance as Sandra . Ms . Ivey is perfect as the seemingly normal woman , one wouldn't suspect she is doing the nasty with clients she and Bill find along the route they travel . Ms . Ivey is amazing when she reveals the truth about her life to an accusing Alice . As the husband , Bill Raymond is good in his portrayal as the husband , that in reality is a procurer . Under the excellent direction of Mr . Dean Bell , the film is not afraid to go to places mainstream films dare not to go . Congratulations to this director who has written a plausible story and has gathered the perfect cast to play it for our benefit .
Hello Papa !	Director Fernando Perez's body of work is entirely different from most of his contemporaries working in the Cuban cinema , as his stories present ideas and situations that other directors wouldn't dare to take . One wonders how does he manage to get this films shown in his own country , or even abroad . This film is full of symbolism . The parallel between Larita and the great American writer , Ernest Hemingway , specifically , his own work , The Old Man and the Sea , is at the center of the story . Larita wants to overcome the obstacles in front of her to get a scholarship , but like the Old Man in the story , she ends up defeated by forces that are much bigger than her . As fate has it , the one time she goes looking for Hemingway at the villa where he lives , she is told the great writer is hunting in Africa . We see Larita scanning the horizon , looking north . Well , some fifty years later , her fellow countrymen probably are using this area to stage the exodus in precarious vessels to go to Florida , or to a death at sea . In fact , Mr . Perez seems to be telling us the more things change , the more they stay the same , which is the case after more than forty years of the present regime in that country . The best excuse for seeing this film is the beautiful work by the actress playing Larita , Laura de la Uz . She is totally convincing and a natural in the hands of her director .
Ninety day wonder	How many times have we witnessed the meteoric ascent of a younger person in our working place to a higher position , a status , we've figured they're not qualified to assume ? This is the basis of this disarming Paul Weitz's comedy , based on his own screen play . The changes that are brought into a company when someone that has no apparent qualifications is put in charge is prevalent within the American way of doing business . How many times have we seen these young upstarts derail a corporation because of their inexperience ? More than a few ! If you haven't seen the film , please read no further . Carter Duryea is picked by his mentor in the conglomerate where he is the rising star , and the logical choice , to be put in charge of the magazine that has been recently acquired by a business tycoon Teddy K . Carter has no clue of what he is in for . Most of the older staff members are canned , but Carter is no dummy , he keeps the talented Dan Foreman because he can be used . After all , Dan is in his early 50s , married , with a couple of children of college age , and in debt . Carter has no life . His wife walks out on him in spite of the big promotion . Right after that , he meets Don's older daughter , Alex . She wastes no time in getting him into her college dorm room . Dan Foreman has no idea of what's going on right in front of his nose . After all , he dislikes Carter , and his ways , more than anything else in the world . That's why when Dan discovers the two lovers in a trendy Manhattan eatery , he goes ballistic . When Carter's guru has a tragic fall , after he has served his purpose and has been used by Teddy K . As a result , Carter loses his job as well , because ultimately , Dan , is recognized for his own merit , rather than for being the yes man that Carter , or his superior were . After all , Dan is the only one that asks the questions that no one dares to , about the conglomerate losing vision on the magazine . This acerbic comedy sheds a life on corporate America like no other one in recent memory . Dennis Quaid plays a brilliant Dan Foreman , the older man . Topher Grace is amazing as the young Carter , who gives an incredible performance . Scarlett Johansson plays Alex Foreman , a young woman without any hangups who enters into an affair with her father's boss . Beware of those ninety day wonders !
A mother and two daughters	Joseph Cedar's wonderful " Campfire " affirms what one had already known : the quality of Israeli films . As he demonstrates with this heart wrenching tale that involves a recently widowed woman , at a crucial moment of her life , " Campfire " shows a director that is in touch with the situation he is presenting us . The Gerlick household is not the most pleasant place to be . Rachel , the mother , has lost her husband about a year ago . Esti , the oldest of the two daughters , is having an affair with a young soldier . Tami , the youngest girl , who is at the center of the story , is clearly lost and not being able to cope , or make sense of all what's happening around her . Rachel is fixed by a friend on a blind date with the shy Yossi , a middle aged man who is the owner of a bus . Their first date at a Chinese restaurant is pleasant , but we don't see sparks fly between them . Yossi is a lonely man who has gone on a lot of similar dates , never ending with a woman of his own , much less a wife . Tami , the youngest daughter is awakening to sexuality . She is a shy girl who has never done anything wrong and suddenly finds herself at the center of attention from the teen age boys who are up to no good and want to have fun at her expense . At the campfire , a group of boys taunt Tami into doing things she is not prepared for and she is horrified when horrible things are written on the walls of her house deeming her a common prostitute , when in reality nothing has happened . Rachel finally gets enough courage to confront the leaders of the new development where she would like to relocate with the girls because she realize that she is not wanted and it's the children of some of these people who are responsible for the cruelty toward Tami . After calling Yossi for help on a few occasions , it's clear that he has fallen for Rachel and is accepted by the girls . The film is bitter sweet with great appearances by the four principals . Michaela Eshet is wonderful as Rachel . Moishe Ivgy has such a noble face , that just one look at him , one realizes this is a decent man who will make anyone happy because he has a lot to give after not having known love in his life . Young Hani Furstenberg is also appealing as Tami and Maya Maron , who was excellent in " Broken Wings " plays the older Esti . Congratulations to Joseph Cedar and his team for a wonderful , heart-felt film about real people in a real situation .
Magnificent adaptation	Jane Austen's novels lend themselves to cinematic adaptations . This production , directed by Roger Michell , and with a screen treatment by Nick Dear , comes close to be what Ms . Austen wanted us to see , if she had any saying in the matter . The film is blessed with great talented English actors who feel quite at home interpreting for us the rich text of the novel . Amanda Root , is perfect as Anne Elliot , the down to earth woman at the center of the story . Ciaran Hands is a virile presence that plays well in the story . Their romance is seen coming all through the proceedings and their love seems to be real . Corin Redgrave is perfect as Sri Walter Elliot , the fatuous man who was impressed with money and power . Susan Fleetwood has some excellent moments as the kind Lady Russell . Fiona Shaw is perfect as Mrs . Croft and Samuel West excels at his portrayal of the impoverished Elliot cousin . Ultimately , the production has a great view because it was filmed in the area that is described in the book . The beautiful city of Bath is seen in glorious exteriors . Recommended to all Jane Austen's fans because the beautiful job Roger Michell did in bringing the novel to the screen .
Children of a lesser G-d	This is a very disturbing documentary . One can only congratulate director Sandi Dubowski for the courage in dealing with the subject matter . Of course , the study here was done among Orthodox Jews who are at the margin of their religion . This film is universal because it could apply to conservative beliefs as well . How can the people in charge of a congregation reject anyone because they are different from what ancient texts tell ? Aren't these gay men and women the product of legal marriages from religion abiding parents ? These children didn't ask to be born gay , but the fact remains they are that way and no one , being the rabbis in charge , or the parents can reverse the fact . Love , nurturing , acceptance are lacking from all those in high places . After viewing the film , I felt great sadness for the people that have to lead a life away from family and community for just being gay . Shame on the parents and the leaders for banning their children into oblivion . I salute their stand for being themselves .
Exile	Carlo Levi , an Italian who fought against the arrival of Fascism in his native Torino , was arrested for his activities and sent to exile in the Lucania region of the country , now known as Basilicata . The hill town of Gagliano was to be his home for the time he had to serve . This was the Italy of the 1930s where the rise of Mussolini and his quest for conquering Ethiopia , an ill conceived idea from the start . We watch as Dr . Levi arrives at the Eboli station , where he must change to a local train and a taxi in order to reach the hill town , which was also the home of other political prisoners . Right after Levi descends from his train at Eboli , he sees Barone , a dog that has been abandoned and who will become his companion in exile . His arrival in Gagliano causes curiosity among the local folk , who see in him a cultured man who sticks out . Carlo Levi observes the people as he takes his daily walks . He can't help but notice how backward everyone seems to him . At the same time , he gets to appreciate them because even if they are ignorant of the outside world , they are genuine . Levi , who had training as a physician , receives a visit from his sister Luisa , a doctor herself . He comments on the primitive state of medicine in the town , a place that boasts two doctors , who are ineffective and set in their ways . Levi clashes with the mayor , a man who is a devout follower of Mussolini and his movement , because the way he wants to censor his communication with friends . After he receives his release , Levi is not prepared for the way he made his presence felt among the locals who come to see him off . Francesco Rosi , who adapted Carlo Levi's novel , is a director with a strong sense of political awareness . He presents the figure of Carlo Levi as a noble man who was helpless against what he wanted to do for the people of Gagliano , but the local government was not exactly enthusiastic about his meddling in the local affairs . Where he is able to connect with the populace is with his knowledge of medicine . Carlo Levi also painted the people of the region . Gian Maria Volonte was an actor of quiet intensity . He is in almost all the scenes and he expresses a rage with his eyes . Mr . Volonte was the main reason for watching the film . Since he had collaborated with Rosi before , it seemed logical he would portray Carlo Levi in the movies , something that he does with ease and elegance . Others in the film include Lea Massari , as Luisa , Irene Papas as Giuglia , Alain Cluny as the Barone Nicola Rotondo . A favorable impression is made by Paolo Bonacelli , who appears as the mayor Luigi Magalone , who even when censoring Levi showed a lot of respect for him . The actual filming was done in Aliano , an ancient hill town , where the real Carlo Levi went to live after the war . Pasqualino DeSantis , the cinematographer , captured in vivid images the picturesque town , the countryside and the people of this lost city . Francesco Rosi made an interesting film about a man of principle that will live forever .
Family secrets	Sabina is a woman who seems to have it all : a job she loves , a nice boyfriend , and a great apartment . Yet , Sabina is carrying a heavy burden in her heart . It all comes to a head when she has to make a decision about the death of her parents , as we witness at the start of the film . All the bottled emotions are struggling to come out as she decides to spend Christmas with her brother Daniele in America . She wants to see her older sibling in order to make sense of her past and get closure with a horrible past . Sabina's boyfriend Franco , an actor , is selected to be in a soap opera . Being a theater actor , he is not completely satisfied with the idea , but being realistic , he has to compromise . Sabina , in parting , asks Franco not to see other women while she is away , knowing well the way things are in the world where Franco moves . Instead of being a joyous reunion , both siblings show a restraint in the way the visit develops . Daniele , who is a professor at an American university , plays the tour guide , pointing different aspects of the place he now calls home , but he never mentions anything about his own childhood . It takes a while for Daniele to open up to Sabina because she wants to get to the bottom of the secret that has damaged them both for life . Both , it turns out , are the victims of family sexual abuse by their father , an ugly situation perpetuated by the mother , who knowing about it , prefers to keep it hidden . When the truth comes out , we watch in horror scenes from both siblings childhood . Cristina Comencini , the author of the novel in which this film is based , adapted and directed with sure hand . She is the daughter of the distinguished Italian director Luigi Comencini . She has learned well as she sets her story with great precision , creating characters that one can relate to . The best thing in the film is the work of Giovanna Mezzogiorno . She brings life into Sabina , something that with another actress might not have been as easy . Ms . Mezzogiorno is simply splendid because she makes us care for this wounded woman who is searching for closure in understanding what was done to her at an early age . Equally excellent are Alessio Boni , who appears as Franco , the boyfriend , and Luigi LoCascio makes an impression as Daniele . Both these actors continue to surprise .
Belly dancing can be dangerous if you wear Polyester . .	All I heard about this film was that it was from Tunisia . Nothing prepared me for a delightful trip into the cabarets and clubs where this ancient art is practiced . Director Raja Amari has created the right atmosphere for this little film that is far better than some multi-million dollar duds . Probably the whole budget of this film would have only bought a couple of props in a Hollywood blockbuster . The story is very sweet . Lilia , played with great charm by Hiyam Abbas , strikes the right note and makes the film work . The relationship between Lilia and Salma , the daughter , is strained . Lilia is not only beautiful , but she's full of life . She discovers the world of dancing with the help of a charming array of down to earth dancers who take her into their realm . They show her how to open up and regain a life that has been cut short by the death of her husband . Lilia transforms herself into our eyes and all we can think is to shout at her to do her thing , enjoy life to the fullest . A very satisfying time at the movies .
The Willarts	John Frankenheimer was not a director of domestic dramas . Working on the James Leo Herlihy novel , adapted by William Inge , Mr . Frankenheimer shows his versatility in " All Fall Down " . The director working with some of the best actors of the era , created a film that , although forgotten , had a lot going for it . We are introduced to Berry-Berry Willart , a young man from Cleveland . He is in jail , as the movie opens . It appears Berry-Berry has a problem with beating women . Berry-Berry's problems seems to stem from a deeply rooted complex with his home life . He would have been a candidate for analysis because he probably would have been able to get a rein on his problem . Since he is seen as young stud , he attracts the kind of women that are either insecure , or have not a great sex life . His younger brother , Clinton , has come to what appears to be Key West , to bail him out . Berry-Berry decides to stick around Florida , a fertile ground for what he is looking for . We watch him as he is hired by an older woman , Mrs . Mandel , for a trip to the Bahamas in her husband's yacht . Later , Berry-Berry catches a ride north with the lonely schoolteacher going home for a Christmas vacation . The trip ends as the young man beats the mousy schoolteacher and lands in jail . In the meantime , we are taken to the Willart home . Annabell is a nagging wife that appears to be unfulfilled with the life she and Ralpht , her alcoholic husband , lead in Cleveland . Clinton , the younger son , is plainly aware of the unhappiness around him . He seems to live in his own world , tuning out the bickering between his parents . Enter Echo O'Brian , the young and pretty friend of the family . Echo is a happy go lucky " old maid " , by her own account , in her early thirties . It's obvious her interest in men is limited . When Berry-Berry , the prodigal son returns for a visit , Echo feels sexually aroused by the young stud . Suddenly , it appears that Berry-Berry is changed until he realizes Echo was hiding something from him . This discovery ends in tragedy . Warren Beatty was probably made to look like a Jimmy Dean by the studio in order to capitalize on his good looks . Mr . Beatty was a strange actor ; on dramatic roles , he is not as effective as when he played rogues , or comedies . Evidently Mr . Frankenheimer was after something that doesn't come across quite clearly , but Mr . Beatty's Berry-Berry , is a light weight playing against more accomplished actors . Eva Maria Saint is perfect as Echo . She is a woman who hasn't experienced much in her life . When she meets Berry-Berry , she suddenly is able to experience all what she probably has denied herself . Angela Lansbury has one of the best moments of her brilliant career as Annabell . Ms . Lansbury , who went to work with Mr . Frankenheimer in " The Manchurian Candidate " , is one of the best reasons for watching the movie . In fact , Mr . Herlihy's book seems to have been adapted by Mr . Inge as though he was presenting one of his frustrated midwest women that were his specialty . Karl Malden also fares well under Mr . Frankenheimer's direction . Being a more experienced actor of stage and screen , Mr . Malden gives a realistic portrayal of Ralph , a man lost in alcohol , in order to escape the dreary married life with Annabell . Brandon de Wilde , as Clinton also does a good job as Clinton , the young Willart that knows all the secrets in his family . The minor roles are played well by Constance Ford , who only has a scene , but she makes the best of her Mrs . Mandel . Also , Barbara Baxley , another stage actress that knew the lonely and insecure schoolteacher she is seen playing . The film also has a good music score by Alex North and a crisp black and white cinematography by Lionel Lindon . In fact , the print we recently viewed appears to have been kept in mint condition . John Frankenheimer has to be congratulated for his achievement in this film .
Overcoming prejudice	This nine minutes short film packs more in it than some full length features . Don Weis directed this little gem in which prejudice is dealt with in a subtle manner . A poignant story by Lucille Schlossberg was the basis for the screen play written by Allen Rivkin . It's a simple story . A soldier , whose buddy has died in combat , comes to pay his respects to his mother . Mrs . Wrenley appears to be glad to receive in her home this young man , JoJo , who has brought the last letter he received from the dead soldier . When he mentions his name , Maxie Klein , Mrs . Wrenley clearly changes from the welcoming lady that is happy to meet her son's friend into a woman whose prejudice indicates she resents the intrusion . She can't even understand how his son could have been friendly with the man in front of her . When Maxie offers to read her son's letter , she doesn't refuse . She can't believe what she is hearing as her son talks about tolerance and acceptance he has seen in the army . It's too much for her to digest , but she realizes the goodness in Maxie Klein's heart as her attitude toward him melts away . The film shows excellent performances from Marjorie Main and Keefe Brazelle , the two characters in the short .
My brilliant career	Pamela Drury , a journalist in her thirties , is in a rut . She suddenly remembers her love for Robert Dickson , a man who went to marry another woman and appears to be happily married now . Pamela wonders how her life would have turned out had she married Robert . Ben , a kind soul , who wants to pursue his interest in Pamela , arrives in her life at the time when her vivid imagination takes her to change places with the real Mrs . Dickson . Needless to say , the sophisticated Pamela Drury , sticks out like a sore thumb among this well adjusted family living an uncomplicated life in their spacious home . Pamela relives her passion for Robert , a man that turned out to be not everything she remembered . She gets much more than what she bargained for , until the day she sees the family celebrating in their favorite restaurant and she realizes she doesn't fit in that picture , at all . Pip Karmel created a charming film , which even on a second viewing , leaves the viewer smiling . It helps to have a good cinematographer to enhance the movie , something that Graham Lind does with great style . The movie score by Charlie Chan works well in the context of the film , but ultimately , Ms . Karmel shows she has quite a knack for directing this winning comedy . The main reason for watching " Me , Myself , I " is Rachel Griffiths . This wonderful actress runs away with the picture . She is unique in that she can play comedy and drama with equal amounts of intelligence and wit . David Roberts makes a pleasant Robert Dickson and Sandy Winton is good as Ben . Highly recommended because of the combined talents of Pip Karmel and Rachel Griffiths .
Cotton picking	Elia Kazan took a big chance in directing " Baby Doll " . His association with Tennessee Williams must have been the deciding factor in his coming on board . This was a film that caused quite a stir because of the direct intervention of Cardinal Spellman of New York in denouncing it for its suggestive billboard in the Times Square area and the content of the movie . This film is a testament of how to film an erotic feature without having the actors running naked all over the place . Carroll Baker , as the Baby Doll of the title , generates a lot of heat every time we see her in the opening scenes through the " peeping tom " eyes of Archie Lee , the husband still awaiting to fulfill his duty as a husband . The steamy scenes between Vaccaro and Baby Doll are incredible if one thinks of the era when it was filmed . Nothing like those torrid scenes were seen in an American film before ! What is amazing is the fact this film was released at all . Unfortunately , the copy that was shown on cable recently has the worst sound track imaginable . The Southern accents from the actors don't help things either . Karl Malden adds to the character of Archie Lee by playing it as a dumb hick who is not too worldly in matters of the bedroom . Carroll Baker had a great role in her Baby Doll . She plays her as a typical small town from that part of the South , a real teaser . Eli Wallach's as Vaccaro brought virility and sensuality to his portrayal . Mildred Dunnock was good as Aunt Rose . This film is an oddity that heralded the liberation of Hollywood from the hated Hays Code which will come much later on .
The uninvited guests	Israeli cinema continues to surprise us . Not knowing anything about what this film was about , we went on the strength of the trailers we had watched . Giddi Dar , the director of " Ushpizin " , is a secular man who has created a wonderful movie of hope and faith , based on the screen play by its star , Shuli Rand . This story might be set in Israel , but it will probably resonate in audiences that go to see it with an open mind because it can be translated to other cultures . " Ushpizin " presents us an Orthodox Jewish couple that can hardly make ends meet . A religious feast is dawning on Moshe and Malli and they don't have enough to eat themselves , expecting somehow in a miracle to solve their situation . Moshe is a man that had a dubious past and has decided to become religious as a way to atone . Malli hasn't been able to conceive , a thorn in their hearts because both want a baby desperately . When a mysterious envelope is slid under their door , Malli is shocked to find a thousand dollars in it . That seems to be the solution to their monetary problems . At the same time , we have witnessed a distraught Moshe praying for a miracle . The couple is not prepared for the unexpected riches they get , the only thing is they don't have anyone to invite to partake of the feast Malli has prepared . Moshe's problems start just as the couple is going to begin eating , two strange men appear at their door . They are Eliyaher and Yossef , two convicts that knew Moshe in his prior life . The Bellangas believe this is another miracle because the best way to celebrate the feast is to have guests to share it with . Moshe and Malli are in for a rude awakening . The film works because of the fine work of all the principals who play their roles convincingly . Shuli Rand is excellent . Michal Rand , makes the long suffering Malli a woman the viewer can identify with . The film is almost a fable with a marvelous ending that will bring smiles to the viewer . Giddi Gar , the director , has to be congratulated for making this such a personal and , at the same time , universal story , come true for everyone's delight .
The secret	" Tell no One " , a terrific mystery thriller , adapted for the screen by its director , Guillaume Canet , offers an two hours of non-stop action and one of the best films that came from France recently . This thriller ranks with Claude Chabrol's " La Ceremonie " , as one of the best treatments mystery novels have received . In fact , we had read Harlan Coben's novel when it first came out , and since the action had changed locales , we wanted to read it again in order to compare . Alas , all the copies of the book had disappeared from the shelves of all New York's bookstores because of the success of the movie . Eventually , I was lucky to find the original text . The treatment differs as far as the way Mr . Canet decided to change some key characters , but as a whole , his interpretation of Mr . Coben's work remains intact . The action revolves around Alex Beck , a physician , who has suffered a severe blow when eight years early , he and his wife , Margot , were viciously attacked at their lake retreat . Margot is killed by the attacker , Alex , survives , but he is soul will never recover itself from the loss of a soul mate , a spouse , and a friend . Margot and Alex's relationship goes back since their own childhood . As the film opens , Alex , who is now a well regarded doctor , starts getting cryptic email messages . What he doesn't know is that he is being watched closely by people that were connected with the tragedy he and Margot suffered . That is why when Alex receives a video clip , he can't get over of what is revealed to him in it . He decides to dig deeper into the whole affair . That journey will take him to an unknown territory where reality mixes up with the not too distant past . The best thing in the film is Francois Cluzet , who gives an inspired performance as Alex . This actor does wonders with a role that fits him like a glove . Mr . Cluzet is marvelous ; he contributes to make the film even better with his intelligent portrayal . Andre Dussolier is also seen as Margot's father , a retired police officer that is key to the mystery . Jean Rochefort is also impressive as the man who has a lot at stake and is bent into getting a justice for a loss of his own . Also the elegant Kristin Scott Thomas makes a great contribution to the film . The film enjoys the crisp cinematography by Christophe Offenstein and the wonderful music score of Mathieu Chedid . One of the best sequences involve Alex Beck running through the streets of Paris and getting across a busy highway that keeps the viewer gasping for air because it seems an impossible thing to accomplish . The director appears briefly in a minor , but pivotal part . Mr . Canet clearly shows he is a force to be reckoned with in the French cinema . Highly recommended for fans of the genre and specially readers of one of the best mystery writers of the moment , Harlan Coben .
Runaway train	" Silver Streak " was one of the best comedies of the 70s . Under Arthur Hiller's direction , the Colin Higgins ' screen play made a huge splash when it came out . Not having seen the film since it was released , we took a look as it was shown on cable . This film is great fun to watch . Alfred Hitchcock's movies clearly were an influence with Mr . Higgins . We are given a train ride to end all train rides ! Trains are no longer a form of transportation in America . The mere idea of having to spend two days traveling between Los Angeles and Chicago seems preposterous for a society that demands things to be done as fast as possible . Of course , even in 1976 , when the film premiered , air travel was not what it turned out to be in later years . The allure of a long train ride is at the center of the action of the film . We are introduced to George Caldwell , a man going to Chicago to attend a wedding . Right after he is taken to his compartment , he opens the wrong door , and a vision of a beautiful woman on the other side is revealed . George is going to get the ride of his life . The Silver Streak traveling west turns out to be a mysterious place to be . The beautiful woman , Hilly Burns , traveling with her scholar boss , is the object of George's interest . George's association with this beautiful woman will prove fatal because he becomes the target of the intrigue schemed by the devious Roger Devereau , the man who wants to get his hands on the secret treasure , that unknown to all , are in Hilly's possession . George encounters all kinds of side adventures , but always goes back to the speeding Silver Streak at different points of its run . The appearance of Grover Muldoon , a convict found in the back seat of a police car , works in George's favor since these two will team to solve the mystery . The final scenes of an out of control Silver Streak and the way it ends at the Chicago terminus look incredible . One wonder how those effects were executed because they look as real and ominous as they unfold on the screen . Gene Wilder , one of the best comedy actors , is at his best in the film . His George Caldwell is a role he was born to play . His timing is impeccable . The scene at the Kansas City train station when Grover transforms him into a black man , is one of the outstanding ones in the film . Richard Pryor , although not seen until about half way through the film , makes a big contribution . Mr . Pryor and Mr . Wilder had the right chemistry in anything they did , but it pays big time in this comedy . Jill Calyburgh makes an impressive appearance as Hilly Burns . Patrick McGoohan is the villainous Roger Devereau . In minor roles we see Ray Walston , Ned Beatty , Lucille Benson , Fred Willarda and Scatman Crothers , among others . " Sivler Streak " is a lot of fun because of the two stars doing what they did best together .
The producers	Mel Brooks ' comedies are made for the pure pleasure of having a good time and to enjoy what the master has decided give us in the way of sheer comic relief . His movies are a riot of visual and witty gags ; they are completely insane . Granted , his humor is not for everybody , but those of us that appreciate this great man's talent , truly have a ball watching this picture about the lunacy in the movie industry , again and again . Mr . Brooks and his sidekicks , Dom DeLouise and Marty Feldman do amazing things . Basically it's all visual , since there's no sound for the viewer to react to what one sees on the screen . The guest cast is incredible as well . Anne Bancroft , Bernadette Peters , Paul Newman , James Caan , Burt Reynolds , Sid Caesar , and the rest appear to be having the time of their lives as Mr . Brooks pull the strings so we can have a great time . This is a great film to watch with friends ; the more , the merrier !
Love is in the air	Lawrence , an aide to the Chancellor of the Exchequer , appears to be a confirmed bachelor . This is a man that lives for his job that evidently keeps him away from the realities of life . Lawrence gets more than what he bargains for when he enters the cafe , at the beginning of the film , and asks Gina , who is minding her business , whether he can share her table to drink his tea . Thus begins this romantic comedy with political overtones directed with great flair by David Yates and based on a screen play by Richard Curtis , a writer who knows a thing , or two , about human relations , as demonstrated by his previous work . Lawrence and Gina , for all appearances are a mismatched pair . He comes from a different world , but has no social graces . She , on the other hand , seems to know a lot more about life than he does . It's easy to see why Lawrence falls head over heels in love with this shy and decent girl who surprises him , and the diplomatic team attending the G8 conference in Reykjavik , Iceland . Lawrence , on an impulse , decides to invite her to come along . The only thing that Mr . Yates and Mr . Curtis haven't prepared us is for the way Gina , a shy and quiet woman , will raise to the occasion to tell her views to people that couldn't care less , much less would have asked her for her opinion of what's being negotiated in the summit . Bill Nighy gives a splendid performance as the repressed and reserved Lawrence , a man who can't see beyond of the international diplomacy that consumes his life . Kelly MacDonald makes a wonderful and sweet Gina , a poor girl who has a lot to give . Both actors are wonderful playing together . They made us believe in their love and we are happy they found one another . Highly recommended for viewers that appreciate a subtle comedy with its heart in the right place .
Alcatraz	" The Rock " is a film that borrowed from other movies . That said , director Michael Bay does a wonderful job in this action packed picture that has the viewer at the edge of his seat . Of course , a lot is asked from us in accepting things we know can only happen in the movies , but if we indulge the makers of " The Rock " , we will be rewarded to an almost two hours of pure , unadulterated thrills . The story at the center of the film involves a renegade Marine General who wants to have the government compensate those people that have given their lives for the country without being properly compensated . His way of doing this is to " hijack " Alcatraz , the notorious former prison in San Francisco and stage his revenge from that strategic point . The only thing is , that in doing so , he and his men take hostage the unsuspecting tourists that have come to see the place . Meanwhile in Washington , all the powers that be , have to deal with the threat General Hummel presents . Someone remembers a man that has been imprisoned thirty years before for doing the unimaginable : he stole secrets from Edgar Hoover . That is how Mason , an Englishman , is asked to help the people that are trying to infiltrate Alcatraz , since he served there and escaped from it , and knows all its secrets . There is also a scientist who understands the chemical danger of the equipment that Hummel , and his men , stole illegally . Those missiles are now in place in Alcatraz and Dr . Stanley Goodspeed is commanded to get to San Francisco to help in the operation . Goodspeed , whose girlfriend had just told him he is going to be a father , has no way of getting out of the mission . Although one knows how everything is going to come out , there is not a dull moment in the movie . Director Bay stages with flair all the action , which involves the typical car chase in the streets of San Francisco . David Weisberg , Douglas Cook and Mark Rosner contributed to the screen treatment . The story defies all logic , but all the films of this genre are like this . John Scharzman's cinematography enhances the film and the action . The film works because of the chemistry between Sean Connery and Nicolas Cage . They make an odd team , who are great together . Ed Harris is Gen . Hummel . His anger is real and he gives another vivid portrait of a man that is seeking justice , if even going beyond sanity to claim it . Other great actors in the film include , David Morse , John Spencer , William Forsythe , Claire Forlani and many others too numerous to mention . " The Rock " is entertaining and it is highly recommended even for a second viewing thanks to what Michael Bay did with the film .
Strong women according to Boccacio	The idea behind " Boccacio ' 70 " was to update some of the stories in Boccacio's Decameron into short segments directed by some of the top Italian directors , showcasing four actresses at the center of each story . The end result was not as interesting as the concept behind the idea . Thus , the resulting stories are not what could have been expected of directors like Federico Fellini , Vittorio DeSica , Luchino Visconti and Mario Monicelli . The first story " Luciana e Renzo " is directed by Mario Monicelli . Some of the contributors to the screen play included Italo Calvino , one of Italy's best writers . The story is simple . Luciana , a young woman working in the accounting department of a large firm , is going to get married to Renzo , who also happens to work for the company . The only problem is no marriage between employees is allowed . The film follows them as they use their lunch time to go to a remote church and get married . The newlyweds must share her parent's small apartment . The head of the department , who obviously likes the lovely Luciana , decides to hit on her when he sees her at a public swimming pool . Things go from bad to worse until the boss finds Luciana embracing Renzo . An idea comes to Luciana's mind : If they both get fired , the separation bonus will let them put a down payment for an apartment of their own . Beautiful Marisa Solinas is Luciana and Germano Gilioli plays Renzo . The next story , " Le tentazioni del dottor Antonio " was conceived by Federico Fellini , who also wrote the screen play with Tullio Pinelli , a frequent collaborator , and others . The story is about Antonio a prudish man who is shocked when an enormous advertising ad is erected in a space facing his apartment . In it , a blown up figure of the actress Anita Ekberg is shown in a suggestive pose holding a glass of milk . No matter what Dr . Antonio does , he is unable to get a friendly ear to help his cause . He becomes so obsessed that one day the gigantic figure in the billboard comes to haunt him . Anita Ekberg , towers over him and teases him mercilessly . What to do ? In spite of his protestations Dr . Antonio , who perhaps has not seen a woman this close in his life , is rendered impotent to do anything against a goddess like Anita Ekberg . The great Peppino DiFilippo appears as Dr . Antonio and the real Anita Ekberg , who made a splash in Fellini's " La Dolce Vita " ( no pun intended ) , have some fine moments in the movie . The third story " Il Lavoro " , directed by Luchino Visconti , presents us with Conte Ottavio , an impoverished nobleman married to the rich Pupe , the daughter of an extremely rich man . Ottavio , who has been surprised by paparazzi with a high class prostitute , has been shown in all of the tabloids in compromising positions . Pupe , who at the start of the film seems to be missing , appears in her own room . She obviously loves the lecherous husband and has made up her mind to begin earning her own living in a regular job . Ottavio , who pleads with her not to do it , realizes his financial dependence on Pupe will suffer . Pupe demands the same kind of payment he made to the call girl . At the end , we see as Ottavio is writing a check as he comes over to Pupe . The fabulous Romy Schneider was excellent as Pupe and Tomas Millian makes a great appearance . The last story , " La riffa " , directed by Vittorio DeSica and written by Cesare Zavattini , takes us to a small town where Zoe , a beautiful woman who has a shooting gallery in a carnival must make ends meet . Her sister , who is having a baby , needs money that she doesn't have , so she ideates a raffle in which she will be the prize . Needless to say , all the men in town buy all the chances . The meek sacristan is the winner , but when he comes to claim his prize , Gaetano , who is secretly in love with Zoe , will not let the sacristan get the lovely Zoe . Sophia Loren is marvelous as the tart-tongued Zoe . She had worked with Mr . DeSica before and she gives a wonderful reading . Luigi Giuliani is Gaetano and Alfio Vita plays the sacristan . " Boccacio ' 70 " , the film , and the writer Boccacio showed they were ahead of its times in presenting strong women taking charge of their destinies .
The jazz player	Polly Draper must be congratulated for writing the screen play in which this film is based . Tourette Syndrome is something most people have no idea what it's all about , yet when one sees someone who suffers from it , one has no clue what the disease does to the sufferer . Gary Winick has directed a film that dares to put out front a young boy who has TS and has to deal with the prejudice he encounters in his own world . It also presents a talented saxophonist that is also afflicted with the syndrome and how these two people form a bond that is based on mutual respect and their love for the music that they both love : Jazz ! Gregory Hines , a fantastic performer and a great all around talent , is Tyrone the sax player . Chris Marquette plays the young boy Miles whose love for the music helps him deal with the Tourette that afflicts him . Polly Drape , as Laura , Miles ' mother , has some good moments in the film . Bill Nunn , Tony Shalhoub , Carol Kane , Desmond Robertson have supporting roles . The musical score for the film is excellent . We hear some of the best jazz musicians creating some exciting music in the background and we get to see their world as well . The film will warm your heart .
Spaniards in Switzerland	Spain in the 1950s and 1960s was still a poor country . Like Italians , Portuguese , in other less industrialized European nations , Spaniards that couldn't make a decent living in their own country emigrated to Germany , Switzerland , and France , where there were more possibilities for them . The idea was for the head of a family to go , start working , save as much as he could to send it back home . Martin and Pilar , a young couple , have to live with his parents in the basement apartment in the building where the older man is the super . Pilar , who had her eye in a new building in the outskirts of the city has given a deposit for the apartment she thinks is her salvation from living with the in-laws . Imagine Martin's surprise when he learns she has spent their savings for the down payment for an apartment and he has just been laid off . Marcos , one of Martin's friend , also unemployed , tells him about his intention of emigrating to Switzerland . He has heard mechanics are needed for the Swiss factories . Without no working permission the two embark in the adventure of their lives . They must leave family behind and enter Switzerland without work permits ; both men are lucky not to be sent back home . The small town they decide to try their luck has a small factory where they eventually land jobs . Martin and Marcos are not prepared for the shock they receive in a country that proves to be as different from theirs like day and night . They land jobs , eventually . They have settled in a small pension in town where Hannah , the woman who runs the place doesn't understand her guests . The result result in funny situations where the Spaniards ' more affable character prove to be a winning card for them . Loneliness proves to be hard for the men as their spouses are so far . Martin has an involvement with the kind Hannah . Pilar , who has decided on her own to go to Switzerland to join her husband , has spent a year's worth of remittances from Martin in the apartment that she supposedly has bought , but in reality she was duped from an unscrupulous building agent . When Pilar arrives , she senses how her husband has been having an affair , but nothing much comes out of it when they find an apartment of their own . Their life takes a nice rhythm in their new adopted country . Years go by , and after Martin's father's death , they decide to go back home , a sad mistake for the whole family . Carlos Iglesias , who wrote , directed , and starred in this film , is someone new to us . His nostalgic look at what appears to be a biographic picture , has some great moments that reflect a bygone Spain , a poor country during the years where the action takes place . The film is a hymn to those men that went to make a living , living family and friends behind . It's clear Mr . Iglesias knows what he is talking about and what comes out in the film is a loving tribute to those men who sacrificed it all in order to help their impoverished families . The director , who plays Martin , has some good moments in the film , especially the beginning of his life in the new country . Javier Gutierrez is also quite appealing as Marcos . Nieves DeMedina , is seen as Pilar , in a touching performance . Isabel Blanco , who plays Hannah , was a surprise . " Un franco , 14 pesetas " proves the point that for some emigrants that try to go back home find it almost impossible to adapt themselves to a pace and an atmosphere in the old country that seems alien to them now , as it's the case with Martin's son who can't adapt himself to the Spanish ways . These people have invested a lot of their lives in a new culture and adapted with a lot of effort , so going back is not exactly easy for most of them . Leaving comforts for an uncertain life back home is not something most of these families would even consider .
Swimming with sharks	Sharks , predators of the oceans , are in danger of extinction . It's a horrifying fact that Canadian filmmaker Rob Stewart wants the world to know . These creatures have been around for thousands of years . They are hunted by unscrupulous people that want their fins which are considered a delicacy and command big prices , specially in Asian countries . Mr . Stewart and his team follow the criminals that engage in this illegal activity in places such as Costa Rica and Ecuador . The sharks are an important element in the way they contribute to an ecological balance in the universe . Mr . Stewart shows his admiration and respect for this species as we watch him in a dancelike sequence swimming among these predators without anyone of them disturbing the peace he finds being almost one of them . The documentary is informative and instructive at the same time . Mr . Stewart and his crew have captured amazing images that will stay in our minds for quite some time . Jeff Rona's original music and Mr . Stewart's own cinematography contribute to enhance the viewer's enjoyment .
The River	This film was ahead of its time in many ways . It's based on the John MacDonald's novel and directed by Lee J Thompson , with a terrific musical score by the amazing Bernard Hermann . The copy recently presented by TCM is perfect in that it is very detailed as it has been preserved with extreme care . This film belongs to Robert Mitchum . His Max Cady is a complex study of evil at its worst . This is a man who wants revenge for what he perceives society owes him , or what Sam Bowden , in particular has done to him ; he will stop at nothing . There are hints of pedophilia in the way Max Cady leers at the teen age daughter of his enemy ; it's done with a lot of class and it's never in your face . Robert Mitchum was an actor of such intelligence that is such a pleasure watch him portray this criminal , intent in doing harm to the man who sent him to jail , as well as to his family . Mr . Mitchum works with an economy of gestures , but one look at him and the viewer knows what makes this Max Cady ticks . Gregory Peck , on the other hand plays the good guy , but he is boring . Mr . Peck , supposedly , championed Mr . Mitchell for the role of Cady , knowing that he would be perfect for the part . It is after all Mr . Mitchell's picture from beginning to end . The supporting cast was excellent . Polly Bergen , Lori Martin , Martin Balsam , Telly Savallas , all in minor roles , but they add tremendously to the action . In retrospect , a lot of comments tend to compare the latter version of the film directed by Scorsese . Many think it's much better . Those people that make that claim are entitled to their opinion , but the original is more satisfying as far as we are concerned .
A slice of life	The main reason for watching this picture is to savor the brilliant performance of S . Ephata Merkerson . Ms . Merkerson dominates this film with her tremendous presence as Nanny , the woman who believes in doing good , no matter to whom , with no strings attached . This actress clearly shows a range that is amazing . Thanks to director George Wolf for bringing this distinguished cast of some of the best Black Americans actors together . This ensemble group under his tight direction help create the right atmosphere in which the action takes place . Of course , none of this would have been possible if Ruben Santiago Hudson hadn't written his wonderful play . Working with Mr . Wolf , perhaps the best theater director of this generation , they have opened the play in a way that it evokes that not too distant past where a child lives under the influence of Ms . Crosby , when his own parents are not around to take care of him . Ms . Crosby becomes the adoring mother of little Ruben ; in a way , he represents her reward for having lost her own daughter . Unfortunately , there is no time to develop some of the characters , as the action solely concentrates in enhancing the relationship between Nanny and the young Ruben , played with such charm by the young Marcus Carl Franklin , who is a natural . The only thing that could have been done differently was the voice over narration that is at times intrusive , as it doesn't clarify , or justify what one is seeing . Frankly , just by watching the interaction of the players , is self explanatory . In the background there is always music . No matter what hard times these people are going through , but Nanny's house is full of laughter and that glorious music that takes us back to that era . Aside from Ms . Merkerson , other notable performances are given by Terrence Dashon Howard , one of the rising stars of the moment . Mos Def , Jeffrey Wright , Marcy Gray , Louis Gossett Jr . , Delroy Lindo , Rosie Perez , Carmen Ejogo , Jimmy Smits and the rest . Ms . S . Ephata Merkerson deserves to be seen by a wider audience . In " Lackawanna Blues " , she clearly demonstrates she can do anything she wants because of her enormous talent and charisma .
A trip to Ireland in search of a father	Paul Quinn , the director of " This is my father " , shows a tremendous talent for bringing this fine layered story to the screen . Working on his own screen play , he was obviously the right person to be at the helm of this fine film . It appears that he got a lot of help , not only of his own brothers , but from a lot of well meaning people in this production . If you haven't watched the film , maybe you should stop reading . The film focuses on Kieran Johnson , the Chicago schoolteacher , ones encounters at the beginning of the movie with his students . His sick mother , Fiona , is being taken care at home by a daughter , and Kieran helps in his own , limited way . Watching his mother in her sick bed motivates him to go to Ireland in a voyage to discover a part of his life which he never knew . Upon arrival , accompanied by his nephew , they go to the rural area where his mother rears from . They get to stay at a modest bed and breakfast run by a greedy man . Seamus ' old mother holds the key to the mystery surrounding how he came to be born and to know the truth about what happened to his mother . In the process we are taken in flashbacks to another era . Kieran O'Day , is a young man working in a small farm with the Meaneys . Beautiful Fiona is a local girl living with a widowed mother . It's obvious from the start these two like one another in more ways than meet the eye . The local town is dominated by the ruthless priests that see smut and lewdness in every one in the small town . In fact , most of what derails the lives of all of the people in the story seems to have been caused by the narrow mindedness of the clergy that held such a grip in the Irish society of the time . Kieran and Fiona eventually realize the love they feel for one another , but fate will come between them in unexpected ways . The film ends in tragedy , as Kieran Johnson gets to know that O'Day was his father and what became of him . In a lovely sequence , we watch as young Kieran and Fiona make a detour to a nearby beach because the car they've been traveling breaks down . While walking in the beach , they witness as a single engine plane come for a landing near them . They meet the American pilot , Eddie Sharp , a National Geographic photographer , who is taking pictures of Ireland . It's a lovely moment where the would-be-lovers interplay with the stranger and all seem to be at peace . Eddie is responsible for taking the only picture where Kieran and Fiona are seen together . That is the only clue left for their son to go on his search for their past . The amazing , largely Irish , cast do an outstanding job in recreating the people in the story . Moya Farrelly , the lovely young Fiona , is one of the best things in the film . Aidan Quinn , as Kieran , delivers a good performance in his portrayal of this lonely man of the country who finds love that proves to be fatal . James Caan , as Kieran Johnson , has some good moments , but of course , he is only seen in a few key scenes . John Cusack's contribution as the friendly aviator is one of the highlights of the movie . The supporting cast makes the film what it is . Colm Meany , Donald Donnelly , Gina Moxley , Brendan Gleeson , Stephen Rea , Moira Deady , among others , are the main reason for watching the movie . Most of them have had better opportunities in other movies , but as an ensemble they respond to Mr . Quinn's direction . Congratulations to Paul Quinn . We wish him well in whatever project he decides to direct !
Class action suit	Josey Aimes , the beautiful young woman at the center of this story , has been betrayed by almost everyone in her short life . As we meet her , she is abandoning a situation that has turned bad in the home she shares with an abusive man . She packs whatever she can and her two kids , heading north to the home of her parents ; she is trying to put her life on track . Josey's father still bears a grudge against his daughter because the unwanted pregnancy of the girl , who never revealed who was the man responsible for a child she decided to have . Instead of finding a nice environment when she applies , and is accepted , working at the coal mine in Northern Minnesota , Josey becomes the one where all the men loved to pick on . The miners resent the intrusion of women in what has been a male dominated work place up to 1975 , when women were allowed in the mines . Her former friend , Bobby Sharp , seems to be the ring leader who makes her life a living hell . Complaining to the president of the mine , only gets Josey deeper in trouble as the chauvinist owner tells her point blank he has no time for her accusations about what's really going on . At the same time , all the other women in the mine , who are also ridiculed by the male workers , turn against Josey . They don't want to lose jobs that pay well , and even though they are also ridiculed by the macho men , they tolerate the situation and don't want to make waves . When Josey feels she has had enough , she quits the job that she needs badly . Glory , her best friend and ally , comes down with a rare liver disease , so there is no help from her . When Josey has tried everything , she goes to Bill White , a lawyer , hoping he would be able to help her sue the mine and get her job back . Josey and Bill have to deal with a formidable opponent , as Mr . Pearson , the owner , has a lot of money and powerful friends and lawyers to deal with problems . The judge , who is hearing the proposal tells Bill and Josey he will consider a class action suit if at least three persons come forward , something that seems almost impossible when they start the arguments . Josey and Bill persevere against all odds to prove their case which result in a monumental defeat for the mine , clearly taking Josey's position . During the trial , the defense introduces a witness , one of Josey's high school teachers , as a character witness . This , in turn , triggers a chain of events that no one expected . Also , Bill White questions Bobby Sharp about his role in a school incident in which he didn't come to Josey's help when the girl badly needed it . Niki Caro , whose previous film we had greatly admired , seemed to us the wrong choice for directing " North Country " . We just couldn't imagine she would be able to pull it off , working in another environment and a situation that probably presented a challenge to the way she worked . In spite of all that , Ms . Caro succeeded with this movie that even though it recalls other films about female sexual harassment that came before . Ms . Caro's film is made even better by the cinematographer Chris Menges , who is one of the best men working today . The music of Gustavo Santaolalla , plus the atmospheric popular songs in the film , work well in the context . The screen play by Michael Seitzman is based on the novel that chronicled a real case that serves as the model for " North Country " . Charlize Theron appears to love to take chances . Ms . Theron , a beautiful and sophisticated woman , doesn't mind changing some of the couture clothes she wears to transform herself as this working class woman . She gives an honest performance as Josey . Frances McDormand , who plays Glory , is only seen during the first half of the film . Sean Bean , Woody Harrelson , Jeremy Renner , Linda Edmond , Thomas Curtis , Sissy Spacek and Richard Jenkins , among the large cast , are seen in supporting roles . Judging by some of the comments submitted to IMDb , it appears there are some people who must have hated this film . Frankly , while " North Country " could have used stronger material , especially in the court proceedings , it is an engaging movie that will satisfy its audience .
El Gallo	Miguel Del Morales is a happy musician that is seen traveling from Havana to the eastern end of the island , as he pays a visit to the place where some of the best music of Cuba originates . In the process , he takes us along to meet his friends and people that have a lot in common with him as they all speak the same language : music ! Karim Dridi , a French director , welcomes us aboard to follow Miguel , better known as El Gallo , as he arrives in Santiago , a traditional place where some of Cuba's best musicians were born . Miguel , a man in his seventies , seems to be much younger than his years because he has the right attitude toward life ; Miguel lives to make music and is right at home jamming with strangers . We are shown different people Miguel meets along the way . There's always laughter and the beautiful music everyone seems to have a passion for . Thus , we are taken to hear Mirta Gonzalez , a woman of a certain age , but who shows more energy and joy than many others half her age . There is also Pepin Vaillant , a man who plays his horn and gets a lot of beautiful sounds out of it . There is Parsan Mallet , another old timer who plays the traditional son . Even the new generation , like the rapper Eulises Sanchez , has some nice harmonies for us to hear . Zayda Reyte , has an impromptu session as she answers her door to find musicians that are there to serenade her and she joins the traditional song one hears . The film doesn't make any political statements . " Cuba Feliz " is indeed a loving look at a place where most of its people rely on music to get them through their day ; they are poor , yet most of the people one sees in the film are truly rich in tradition . The music seems to be their subsistence and what nourishes their souls .
Bernardo Bertolucci's directorial debut	Bernardo Bertolucci's " La Commare secca " , his directorial film debut , is wonderfully preserved in the Criterion DVD we had the occasion of watching recently . It shows a young man with great promise in a film that some contributors to IMDb like to compare with Kurasawa's " Rashomon " , which is unfortunate . Bertolucci had been around the movie business as he had been behind the scenes in the Italian cinema serving his apprenticeship with the likes of Pier Paolo Passolini and other great masters . In this film , he got help from Passolini , who contributed to the screen play . The beginning of the film has a Fellinesque look to it , as we are shown Parco Paolo , in Rome , with the flying debris that come to settle at the scene where a young prostitute is lying on the ground . The crisp black and white cinematography of Giovanni Narzisi enhances everything it focuses on with tremendous elegance , showing that Bertolucci knew his business and his camera angles , mostly shown in scenes in the park , are always effective . The musical score by Piero Piccione and Carlo Rustichelli enhances the film , adding another dimension . Bertolucci was well served by Nino Baragli's editing . There are aspects of the film in which he recognize the input of Pier Paolo Passolini , as we see the homosexual who is cruising the park at night . In fact , most of the men in the film are predators , one way or another . The prostitute , who hardly utters a word in the movie until the end , is a symbol for the lost innocence the director and his collaborators sensed at the time the film was produced . This film deserves a view by all fans of the Italian cinema because it marked the arrival on the scene of a revolutionary director whose career spans more than forty years .
A murder in Wyoming	A young gay man brutally killed by two young men trying to make a point about their hatred of homosexuals is the basis of Moises Kaufman's brilliant play seen here a few years ago . On the stage the play is somewhat detached because of the limitations in the text , but as a film , adapted for the screen by Mr . Kaufman , the immediacy of the story is more shocking than in the theater . " The Laramie Project " is seen in a documentary fashion . The director and his assistants went to Laramie to investigate the incident that caused a world wide uproar because of the savage way Matthew Shepard's death had caused . In recreating the facts , Mr . Kaufman has dramatized the story by having real actors play the different people in town with whom he and his collaborators talked during the days of the research trip . What comes out about the story is that individually , the citizens of Laramie were as shocked as everyone else was . After all , they considerer themselves as pretty tolerant , so why a horrible tragedy like this could ever happened amongst them ? In fact , it only takes a pair of misguided individuals , who think thought they would make a statement by inflicting on the unsuspecting Matthew Shepard a punishment he didn't deserve . The ensemble cast that play the different parts is an inspired choice . Mr . Kaufman was lucky in amassing such talent that respond so well to his commands . Steve Buscemi , Camryn Manhein , Laura Linney , Amy Madigan , Frances Sternhagen , Christina Ricci , Margo Martindale , Kathleen Chalfant , Terry Kinney , just to name a few , give excellent readings about what really occurred in Laramie . Ultimately , Mr . Kaufman makes his point by just letting the citizens of Laramie come to terms with the horrible tragedy that shook their town .
Fellini , the magician	Carmen Piccini's delightful documentary " The Magic of Fellini " was shown recently on the Sundance channel . It was a complete surprise because of its subject , Federico Fellini , who was one of the best directors of Italy of the last century , one would think needed no explanation about what made him one of the most admired figures of the Italian cinema . Ms . Piccini explores the man who was a legend and in less than one hour she makes us feel as though one knew this charismatic man intimately . What comes across in the film is Fellini's genius . He was a man who basically had the ideas in his mind and who seldom bothered to write a screen play detailing each scene of the film he was directing . Fellini was a master of the improvisation style and as such , he gave his actors a general guide line to follow as most of the dialog was added in the editing . He was famous for having some of the American stars he employed in his films just move their lips and concentrating on the characters they were creating . There are hilarious interviews on camera with Anthony Quinn , whose Zampano , in " La Strada " was perhaps his best film work , and with Donald Sutherland , who played Casanova for the master . Donald Sutherland is seen mumbling numbers in Italian that were later dubbed with an actor's voice speaking the great lines Fellini and his collaborators added later on . Claudia Cardinale is also seen in an interview on camera as she tries to explains the magic of working with Fellini . Ms Piccini has included some of the best moments in the films Fellini directed such as the sequence when Anita Ekberg enters the Trevi fountain in Rome , in " La dolce vita " . She also includes two of the best scenes from " Le notti di Cabiria " in which Giulietta Massina is seen dancing with the film star portrayed by Amadeo Nazzari , and later on as the film is ending when one sees Cabiria shedding tears as she walks home at the end of the picture . This documentary is essential for admirers of Federico Fellini and Carmen Piccini has made it possible to the great director's fans to discover yet another layer of the man who was an absolute original .
Be a clown !	They certainly don't make movies like this one anymore ! " The Pirate " shows how MGM dominated the musical genre with stars of the magnitude of Gene Kelly and Judy Garland under Vincente Minnelli's direction , and music by Cole Porter . The story is just a pretext to present the stars doing what they did best . The film is totally dominated by Gene Kelly , who makes a wonderful contribution to the film as Serafin , an itinerant entertainer who happens to be in Calvados , the Caribbean , a fictional island where the beautiful Manuela is about to get married to a powerful man , Don Pedro Vargas . After being pursued by Serafin , Manuela's resolve to marry the much older , fatter , and uglier , Don Pedro , is reduced to seeing the would be husband by what he really is , a bully and a man who she will never bring herself to love . The revelations at the end and the happy conclusion gives the film a great finale . Gene Kelly and Judy Garland were at the peak of their careers . Ms . Garland looks so beautiful in the film and she makes an adorable Manuela . Mr . Kelly gives an excellent performance as the song and dance man who can put people in a trance as he hypnotizes them . The musical numbers in which Mr . Kelly dances are superbly staged . The supporting players are a delight . Gladys Cooper , makes a great Aunt Inez . Walter Slezak is perfect as Don Pedro , a man who hides deeply rooted secrets . Reginald Owen and George Zucco are also seen . Best of all are the Nicholas Brothers who were amazing in their number . The glorious Technicolor utilized in the film has kept its luster as it has aged gloriously .
Winter landscape	Having loved David Guterson's novel , " Snow Falling on Cedars " , we resisted in seeing the film based on it when it was released . Some times a book that is still alive in one's imagination doesn't compare well with what movie people can do to it ; it can go either way . Fortunately , as in the case with this work , director Scott Hicks , who also helped to adapt it for the screen , shows a sensibility for the book as it shows in the finished product . The co-writer is Ronald Bass . The film is told in flashbacks . We are given the premise of the discovery of Carl Heine's body tangled in the nets and then the film goes into the trial in which the accused man , Kazuo Miyamoto , stands trial in spite of the fact he is an innocent man . Kazuo was a man that happened to be at the scene of the crime , but had nothing to do with what happened . His only guilt was trying to get back what had been the family's land from Heine . The film goes back to the time when Ishmael and Hatsue , who is now married to Kazuo , were childhood sweethearts . We see how inseparable they were and how they didn't stand a chance because they came from different ethnic groups . Hatsue's parents want her to stick to her own kind . Prejudice is shown as Japanese immigrants living in America were interred in concentration camps . This shameful page in the history of the United States changed forever the relationship between Hatsue and Ishmael . Kazuo went to fight in WWII on the side of his adopted country . Ishamel also goes to the conflict and suffers a loss of an arm during his time at the front . Ishmael , who is seen at the trial where he is reporting the process for his own newspaper , holds the key in solving the mystery . Even though he knows he will never have Hatsue back , he does the right thing in clearing her husband's name and his innocence . The film was shot in dark tones that renders the film with a sepia finish . There is not much color in Robert Richarson's splendid cinematography as he captures the bleak atmosphere of the different times shown in the movie . The editing of Hank Corwin works well in the movie . The musical score by James Newton Howard is an elegant compliment to the images one sees on the screen . Ethan Hawke's Ishmael has little dialog in the movie , yet , his expressions contribute to make his character a complex figure throughout the film . Youki Kudoh makes a beautiful Hatsue . Rick Yune plays the accused Kazuo . The great Max Von Sydow is seen as Kazuo's lawyer , the man who clearly understood what he was fighting for ; he was an upright figure who opposed the prejudice and narrow mindedness of the small town . Sam Shepard , Richard Jenkins , Eric Thal , Arija Bareikis , James Cromwell and the others in the cast make valuable contributions to the success of the film . Ultimately , this is a Scott Hicks film and he proves he had a vision in how to stage the novel for us to rejoice .
Girls just ' wanna ' have fun !	What a pleasure to watch Stockard Channing in this film ! The range of emotions she undergoes playing Julie , an over-the-hill , frustrated and angry woman , who perhaps has been overlooked by her employers , like so many other women with a lot of qualifications , too many times . She is totally vulnerable . She's afraid of losing her job , which she has worked probably so hard to obtain and keep . She goes from one extreme to another in a range that is very hard to imagine another could convey as eloquently as Ms . Channing . She meets her match when Paula , her new assistant , gets into the picture . Paula is an enigmatic character who we don't know where she's coming from , yet , she exerts an incredible amount of power over her newly acquired boss . That's when the fun and games begin . Julia Stiles projects a mystery about who this assistant is , obviously a product of privilege and wealth in sharp contrast with Stockard Channing character , who we get to know , comes from very humble origin and whose ascent into the position she is now is the product of hard work . Her ambition is natural because her Julie has had to struggle and fight for whatever she has gotten from life , including her present executive position . It's like a good tennis match watching these two actresses go at it , and at each other throughout the film , but it is Miss Channing who outshines and makes this feature so much fun to watch . The script and direction from Patrick Stettner are just right , but he is well served by his cast .
The street singers of Paris	Rene Clair , a distinguished French director , was part of a group of artists that captured the atmosphere of the times they worked into film . " Sous le toits de Paris " , was a silent movie to which sound was added . Mr . Clair didn't quite appreciate this new technique of the cinema . Like in most of his films , music dominates the background , as seen in other films he directed , most notably , " Le million " and what might be considered his masterpiece " A nous la liberte " , which was shown recently at New York's Film Forum . The film is simple and sweet . It shows a slice of life in a Paris that doesn't exists anymore . This demimonde of pickpockets and petty criminals get a great treatment from Mr . Clair and his collaborators . This movie shows a bygone Paris neighborhood with its inhabitants that enriched the popular culture with the songs they sang and the places they met . Albert Prejean , Pola Illery , Edward Greville , and Gaston Modot , who was " the man " in Bunuel's " L'age d'or " give their characters authenticity and bring great charm to our enjoyment of the film . The song in the film is like an anthem dedicated to the Paris Rene Clair and his contemporaries adored .
The scream !	Brian DePalma was at the height of his film career when he undertook the direction of " Blow Out " . Some comments to this forum have compared it to other distinguished films like Francis Ford Coppola's " The Conversation " and Michaelangelo Antonioni's " Blow Up " , a comparison that seems to make sense , in a way , but Mr . DePalma , who wrote his own screen play , is an intelligent man who didn't need to copy anything from those masters of the cinema . In fact , " Blow Out " has kept its impact as a thriller mystery with its political overtones as it mixes crime with the lives of influential people that might give viewers a point of reference between the movie and actual historical facts . We are given an introduction to Jack's line of work as we watch scenes of the porno film that he is working on as a sound technician . The only thing that is needed is a real scream which the many actresses , either on the film itself , or being auditioned , can't produce . Whatever comes out of those women's throats are wimpy sounds , not a horror yell for help . Jack , who is out one night recording sounds for future ventures , captures the shot that causes the " blow out " and makes a car plunge into a creek . Jack abandons everything and jumps to rescue whoever he can save . He is only successful in bringing Sally out of the water . This is the beginning of Jack's involvement into the mystery behind the actual fact . Mr . DePalma's thriller is visually stylish . He photographed the movie in Philadelphia . The film has the excellent Vilmos Zsigmond behind the camera . The atmospheric music by Pino Donoggio serves the movie well . John Travolta's career was in decline when he made this movie . He gives a terrific performance as the sound effect man who stumbles in a conspiracy to eliminate the witnesses to the accident . Nancy Allen is not as effective as Sally , the young prostitute at the center of the story . Being married to the director might have helped her land the part , which with some other actress might have paid off better . John Lighgow is perfectly creepy as Burke , the evil man . Dennis Franz has the pivotal part of Karp , the man who was able to photograph the whole incident . " Blow Out " is a must see for all Brian DePalma's admirers .
Brrrrrrrrrrrrr	This is a very different kind of film about the Inuit , who we very seldom hear from , but they are a race of proud and nomadic people . The film is much too long . Sometimes it is very hard to watch . Perhaps with a firmer hand , it could have been trimmed to make a more compelling and spellbinding movie . The director , Zacharias Kunuk presents us with very human situations that are universal . It's very interesting to watch that all evils of our society are present among this group of people as well . The chase scenes are incredible . One wonders how they could Atanarjuat could have survived the elements . All in all , this film is an eye opener as how can these primitive people survive under the worst possible circumstances .
Yes Virginia . . . .	This abridged TV episode was done by 20th Century Fox as part of a way to keep up with the emerging popularity of the new medium . The shortness of the piece explains the format of under one hour for the program . As far as the remake is concerned , its director , Robert Stevenson , does a good job in recreating the atmosphere . The young actress , Sandy Descher , as Susan , is pretty intense for a girl her age . If one adds the likable actress Teresa Wright , as the mother , who happens to work for Macy's and McDonald Carey , as the neighbor , Fred Gaily , the casting is excellent . Both had appeared in Hitchcock's " Shadow of a Doubt " , and they have an easy time with one another . Thomas Mitchell makes a delightful Kris Kringle . Also in the cast , we see Ray Collins , a veteran film actor and Hans Conried , who is Ms . Wright's supervisor . A timeless story told with conviction .
Good-bye Ms . Chips	Mike Newell's film has that period look about it , the 50s , in this case . We are presented with a slice of life at a prestigious all-women , American university , that catered to the future wives and mothers of the upper classes . The same institution that would allow married women to continue their education after their weddings . It was obviously a place where young women of a certain class went to pass their time while waiting to create a place in society . Julia Roberts is an actress who is her worst enemy in selecting material for some of the pictures she has been in . It must be extremely difficult to cast Ms Roberts in a little film because of her high salary . Her best asset is her radiant smile , which she doesn't get to use here to her best advantage . She is not at her best playing this idealistic art teacher , but if judging by the almost all women audience when I saw it , they loved Julia every minute of it ! The rest of the cast is very good indeed . Kristin Dunst , as the bitchy Betty Warren , has enough clout that she can make or break any teacher she doesn't like . Ms Dunst's is a cruel woman who will destroy anything that stands in her way . She has the kind of power and uses it to her advantage . Julia Stiles as Joan , proves ultimately she is a coward , who will abandon her dream in order to marry a man who is obviously a loser . The incredible Maggie Gyllenhaal , as Giselle Levy , is the only one who is her own person and could not care less what anyone thinks about her , or what she does . The ending is a bit hard to take because it's impossible to digest that suddenly Betty has seen the light and will even consider sharing an apartment in New York with Giselle , or will be friends . Kristin Dunst's Betty is the most complex character in the film . Her hair has the right shade of blonde that is acceptable to the people in her circle . Marcia Gay Harden was excellent as the repressed spinster that has been in this school too long . Marian Seldes and Juliet Stevenson don't get much to do , but their presence at key moments of the film is very effective . After seeing this movie , my only wish was to watch the real Mr . Chips and Robert Donat at his best .
Secrets	The life style of yuppies is examined with an incisive eye by Director Daniel Cormack working on the intelligent screen play by Stephen Betts . This is a short film that could have been made into a full feature on the basis of the strong writing , acting and the direction given to it by Mr . Cormack , who really surprises with his approach . Like in fashion , less is more . In the case of this short , the axiom proves right in that the viewer gets to know two people in no time at all . We are taken to meet an attractive couple that seem to be in an ideal situation . The comfort of their lives is clearly apparent ; Amelia and Michael seem to have it all . That is why is so surprising the turn of events that come between them . His deception is somewhat hard to accept because Amelia is a beautiful creature . On the other hand , Amelia has perhaps an inner life she shares with no one . We see her at the hospital with what could be a lover , or maybe a brother , or even a good friend who is facing death . The story has an ironic feel that kept reminding this viewer of some of the stories by O'Henry . " Amelia and Michael " is amazing little film that does justice to the effort Mr . Cormack , cast and crew put into it .
Cannery Row	" Clash by Night " was one of the last films Fritz Lang directed in Hollywood . Clifford Odets ' play must have attracted him because it doesn't appear to be a film that he would fancy . IMDb classifies this movie as film noir , but aside from the night scenes , this is a straight melodrama . Mae Doyle is a study in contrasts . She is a jaded soul that comes back to the small California town when things went bad for her . She finds an estranged brother who takes her reluctantly . Mae finds peace in her life , although she is too smart to even think happiness is just around the corner . Fate will intervene in making her think she should have stayed away . The kindness she is shown by Jerry Damato seems to heal her wounds and made her appear that she belongs in the fishing town . Jerry Damato is a happy man who has made a name for himself as a fisherman . He is perfectly content until he falls under Mae's spell . He knows he can't aspire to be loved in return , but he tails Mae all the time . Jerry makes an error in judgment in introducing Mae to his best friend , the town's screen projectionist , Earl Pfeiffer . Earl sees right through Mae and what makes her tick . He will do anything to get Mae away from the kind Jerry . It's an obvious fact , as we realize that after the initial dislike of Earl , Mae feels this is a man for her . That's the basic premise of the melodrama . It's hard to see Mae as a mother for she shows no maternal instincts toward Gloria , her infant girl . Mae is ready to walk out of Jerry's life in no time and she doesn't even consider taking the girl with her . The about face she does when she decides to leave , but comes back for the baby , is hard to believe . Barbara Stanwyck does a fine job in portraying Mae . As usual , she plays a tough woman who knows what's best for her . Paul Douglas is good as the kind Jerry . He gives Mae everything , even though he realizes she might not ever love him . Robert Ryan , as Earl , is his usual self , an intense presence . He lusts after Mae and does everything in his power to get her to leave with him . In minor roles , Marilyn Monroe is seen as Peggy , a cannery worker . In her short role , she is extremely likable because of the kindness she shows to the recently arrived Mae . J . Carroll Naish plays the drunk Uncle Vince . Keith Andes is Joe Doyle . The black and white cinematography by Nicholas Musuraca enhances the film . The seascapes are beautiful .
The limited war zone	The conflict in Kossovo serves as backdrop for this Spanish film . Directed by Daniel Calparsoro , whose " Asfalto " we recently saw , is an intense film that takes the viewer behind the horrible war in that part of Europe . How similar is the movie in comparison to the real events , we can't say , for sure . We are presented with a group of Spanish soldiers that are sent to restore electric power to a small town . As the group approaches the Serbian border , they encounter an unexpected turn of events as they are attacked by one of the factions and end up straying into a no man's land where no one is supposed to enter . The soldiers are faced with the horrors of a war they were just supposed to stay away from . Vidal , the daring soldier , is instrumental for getting them back in track after the Lt . Alonso suffers what appears to be a shock . Alonso turns out to show all signs of a coward when he is captured . It's only Vidal who at the start appears to be the one that wants to be sent home in order to avoid any confrontation ; this young man proves to be a natural born leader who finds a way to get back after experiencing some tense moments in that forbidden zone . The best thing in the film is Eloy Azorin , a talented young actor who is perfect for the role of Vidal . Eduardo Noriega , an actor who has done better in other films , is quite a puzzle as the cowardly lieutenant . Ruben Ochandiano , Carla Perez and Jordi Vilches are seen as part of the platoon of Spanish soldiers . Daniel Calparsoro seems to be getting better and better all the time .
The science of dreams	The title of this film should have been translated as " The Science of Dreams " , the same as its French title . It makes more sense , in that dreams are always full of possibilities . Most of what we are presented in the picture deals in how Stephane's mind functions and the dreams he so vividly enacts for us . Michel Gondry's wonderful new film , which he wrote himself , proves he is a man not afraid of showing us this whimsical character , Stephane , who seems to be living in his own magical universe . Mr . Gondry , uses a different technique , getting away from obvious special effects . By having Stephanie making her own kind of art , he blends two different worlds in what appears to be a seamless union . Some comments we have read make Stephane as a crazy young man , when in reality he is a dreamer . The best way to enjoy this film is to let it envelop you and just let it charm you without any preconceived expectations . Gael Garcia Bernal , who plays Stephane , keeps getting better all the time . He seems to be akin to the material the director wrote for him and he excels as this childlike man who lives in a fantasy world . On the other hand , Charlotte Gainsbourg makes the perfect foil with her Stephanie . She sees what Stephane is like and accepts him , even though their relationship is put to a test . The supporting cast , Alain Chabat , Miou Miou , and Emma DeCaunes , among others , contribute to make this film the charmer it is . Michel Gondry is a director that always amazes . He proves it with this film .
Princess Fernanda	Fernanda , a Brazilian transsexual , embarks on a trip to Italy , where some of her friends are working as prostitutes . She figures that working there will help her get the money for the operation that will make her a woman , something she has always wanted , but never had the means to pay for the costly procedure . Basically , Fernanda is a good soul trapped in a man's body ; even though Fernanda has enlarged her breasts , she is not completely sure of the next step . We first meet Fernanda on the train that is taken her to Milano . After the police begin to check on documents , they discover his passport photo which shows a man . She is arrested and she suffers a humiliating experience when the officer in charge wants to take advantage of her . After she arrives in Milan , her friend Charlo takes her to meet Karin , an Italian woman who controls the action in that part of town . Karin puts her through the test with Fabrizio , a kind soul who is connected to Karin's circle . Karin eventually invites her to move in with her . Fernanda has an encounter with a man that will change her life . Gianni , the man that invites her for a ride in his car , acts shyly at first , but Fernanda , who turns aggressive , gets him aroused , until he discovers this girl has some attribute he never guessed she had . Disgusted by his discovery , Gianni throws Fernanda from the car , almost naked . Gianni , whose conscience must have bothered him , comes back to return Fernanda's things and invites her to dinner the following night . Karin , who senses Fernanda is falling in love , warns her about it , but Fernanda feels Gianni is an honest man . Gianni eventually leaves his wife and moves in with Fernanda into what appears a blissful relationship . She has started to take the medicine before her operation , but they have a bad effect on her . When Gianni's estranged wife comes to visit Fernanda , she understands her life with Gianni was doomed . Director Fernando Goldman offers a frank account on the life of these transsexuals that are found all over Europe as they engage in prostitution . It appears the more exotic the transsexual , the more demand for them from the men that love that type of sexual encounter . Mr . Goldman presents this crude story without embellishments , which in a way is a more realistic approach to the lives he is examining . Don't expect a " Pretty Woman " here , this is the way these people live and are exploited by the system . Ingrid DeSouza makes an impression with her take on Fernanda , who is a backward girl who learns quickly about how to peddle herself in the new environment . Ms . DeSouza is perfect for the part . Cesare Bocci , who plays Gianni , makes a valuable contribution in making his character someone who is believable without being a caricature . Lulu Pecorari is also wonderful as Karin , the kind hearted woman who knows Fernanda is making a big mistake when she goes to live with Gianni . " Princesa " is worth a look because the excellent direction by Fernando Goldman who shows he knows these women and their world .
A house in Connecticut	Manhattan apartment dwellers have to put up with all kinds of inconveniences . The worst one is the lack of closet space ! Some people who eat out all the time use their ranges and dishwashers as storage places because the closets are already full ! Melvin Frank and Norman Panama , a great comedy writing team from that era , saw the potential in Eric Hodgins novel , whose hero , Jim Blandings , can't stand the cramped apartment where he and his wife Muriel , and two daughters , must share . Jim Blandings , a Madison Ave . executive , has had it ! When he sees an ad for Connecticut living , he decides to take a look . Obviously , a first time owner , Jim is duped by the real estate man into buying the dilapidated house he is taken to inspect by an unscrupulous agent . This is only the beginning of his problems . Whatever could be wrong , goes wrong . The architect is asked to come out with a plan that doesn't work for the new house , after the original one is razed . As one problem leads to another , more money is necessary , and whatever was going to be the original cost , ends up in an inflated price that Jim could not really afford . The film is fun because of the three principals in it . Cary Grant was an actor who clearly understood the character he was playing and makes the most out of Jim Blandings . Myrna Loy , was a delightful actress who was always effective playing opposite Mr . Grant . The third character , Bill Cole , an old boyfriend of Myrna , turned lawyer for the Blandings , is suave and debonair , the way Melvin Douglas portrayed him . One of the Blandings girls , Joan , is played by Sharyn Moffett , who bore an uncanny resemblance to Eva Marie Saint . The great Louise Beavers plays Gussie , but doesn't have much to do . The film is lovingly photographed by James Wong Howe , who clearly knew what to do to make this film appear much better . The direction of H . C . Potter is light and he succeeded in this film that will delight fans of classic comedies .
Con man	Corruption was rampant in Peru at the beginning of this century after the collapse of the Fujimori regime . The economy was in shambles as everyone felt the squeeze and had to resort to do whatever in order to make ends meet . We meet first Rafo and Laura , a young couple that owe three months ' rent . Their landlady is getting impatient , but lets them stay in the apartment . Rafo wants to sell his big Chevrolet convertible , but when he finds out how much it will fetch , he decides to keep it . As he and Laura come out of a local market , they are accosted by a man with a young girl who pretends to know him and asks him for help . Rafo realizes he is a street swindler . Lima was full of these people . We meet Salvador , an affable Spaniard , next , as he goes to a five star hotel pretending to be in charge of a company expecting a group of Japanese tourists that will arrive the following day . He talks to the attractive receptionist , who gives him information he shouldn't have . As Salvador emerges from the hotel , he sees an awaiting taxi at the door and hails it . As it turns out , Jaime , the driver , had gone to see his receptionist daughter . Jaime , who is unemployed has resorted to driving a taxi in order to make a living . He is charmed by Salvador into driving him around Lima , something that Salvador doesn't intend to pay . The Spanish man , we realize is a con artist also , but working on a more refined level . Salvador is the key figure in the story as he is the one that ties up all the different narratives . The victim turns out to be Rafo , who , unaware of Salvador's real intentions , falls for the great deal the Spaniard has in store for him . " Doble juego " directed by Alberto Durant was a real surprise . In many ways . It remindeded us of the Argentine film " 9 reinas " , but this is entirely different as the director deals with totally unrehearsed chain of events where street smart people fall victim in ways they shouldn't have fallen . Rafo is played by Fabrizio Aguilar . Fernando Cayo makes a great impression as Salvador , the con man . Giancarlo Brero , one of Peru's leading actors has only a small part , but he makes the best out of it . Mari Pili Barreda , Gianela Neyra , Katia Condos and the rest of the cast do an excellent job for the director . " Doble juego " , ( also known as " Con Game " ) is a fun film with a fast pace that will delight viewers as it shows a talented director , Alberto Durant , at top form .
Kissy-kissy	The Last Kiss , written and directed by Gabriele Muccino is one of the best films that have come out from Italy in the last years . It has the right ingredients to appeal to an international audience . The morale of the film is , perhaps , that boys will be boys in Italy as well as anywhere in the world . Otherwise , it doesn't make sense why would Carlo betray Giulia at the first chance he gets . The only way it could be understood would have been to have cast a different actress than Giovanna Mezzogiorno in the role . Not only is Ms . Mezzogiorno gorgeous , what man in his right mind would even consider having a fling with anyone else ? Stefano Accorsi's Carlo is obviously dazed and confused by the young girl he happens to meet . This is the message of the film , gamble with your happiness and you'll lose everything . Beautiful Stefania Sandrelli has a small part as Giulia's mother with her own marital problems . We don't get to see Ms Sandrelli enough on the screen . She's an elegant and welcome sight whenever she graces a film . Cheaters beware : Don't risk losing someone who loves you unconditionally for a quickie , no matter how gorgeous that quicky might be , or even if she's an Italian Lolita .
See no evil	The interesting novel by Robert Baer seems to tell it all about " Syriana " . It is a tale that is driven by the ambition of a few unscrupulous people who will stop at nothing to achieve their goal . In a way , Mr . Baer's novel as well as the film seems to be reaffirming Niccolo Machiavelli's " The ends justify the means " Stephen Gaghan's first major directorial job presents the story in multiple settings running at the same time , which , for a great majority of the public will prove disorienting . Mr . Gaghan has adapted for the screen material like the one in " Syriana " before , so he wasn't a stranger working in that format . What " Syriana " presents is a sort of rat race for the control of the oil in the Persian Golf , by whatever means necessary . Ultimately , the ones in control of that commodity will dominate the world . We are given about five different narratives in the film that interplay one another in the most unexpected ways . In fact , all these different subplots have a lot more in common than really meets the eye . One could almost recommend the viewing of the film a couple of times in order for all the different parts to come together in our minds and by doing so , the viewer will see the inner mechanisms of this intricate tale of corruption , greed and power . The cast is enormous . There are a lot of different acting styles in the film . An almost unrecognizable George Clooney plays Bob Barnes , the CIA operative fallen from grace who is instrumental in set the story in motion and who reappears at the end at the climax of the action . Jeffrey Wright does a tremendous job as the lawyer who discovers the hidden mystery in a performance that is completely different from whatever he has done before in the screen . Matt Damon plays the ambitious young man who is at the top of his profession and can help Prince Nasir with his revolutionary views about changes in his country and the Arab world . Ultimately , Wasim , the poor Pakistani guest worker makes the case for the displaced youth of that world that is willing to go ahead and commit the ultimate sacrifice . There are also good appearances by some seasoned actors that only appear shortly . Tim Blake Nelson , Chris Cooper , Jayne Atkinson , Akbar Kurtha , William Hurt , Christopher Plummer , Robert Foxworth and the rest are seen briefly . Robert Elswit photographed the film in the different locations and makes it look better . The music score by Alexandre Desplat is heard in the background without interrupting the action . The editing by Tim Squires works well with the action . Stephen Gaghan shows he can do well working with Mr . Baer's material and made an interesting film that while it will irritate some viewers , on the whole he had the right idea in the way to tell this story .
Mirror , mirror . . .	One can only imagine the film Mr . Welles might have finished without the interference of the studio ! This film is a flawed Welles , but worth every minute of it because one can see the greatness of perhaps America's best motion picture director of all times ! We can see the toll it took on Orson Welles the filming of this movie . The story has a lot of holes in it , perhaps because of the demands of the studio executives that didn't trust the director . It is curious by reading some of the opinions submitted to IMDB that compare Orson Welles with the Coen brothers , Roman Polanski , even Woody Allen , when it should be all of those directors that must be regarded as followers of the great master himself . No one was more original and creative in the history of American cinema than Mr . Welles . Lucky are we to still have his legacy either in retrospective looks such as the one the Film Forum in New York just ended , or his films either on tape or DVD form . Rita Hayworth was never more lovingly photographed than here . If she was a beauty with her red hair , as a blonde , she is just too stunning for words . Everett Sloan and Glenn Anders made an excellent contribution to the movie . The only thing that might have made this film another masterpiece to be added to Orson Welles body of work , was his own appearance in it . Had he concentrated in the directing and had another actor interpret Michael O'Hara , a different film might have been achieved altogether . Orson Welles has to be credited for being perhaps a pioneer in taking the camera away from the studio lot into the street . The visuals in this film are so amazing that we leave the theater after seeing this movie truly impressed for the work , the vision and the talent he gave us .
The separation	We are taken to what appears a neighborhood dance hall , as the film begins . The lights are out , the people are seated , awaiting the start of the music . The musicians arrive and begin playing . Two women of a certain age take to the floor , followed by the other couples . It's at this point that Giovanni and Liliana , who are serious about one another , enter and sit at one of the tables . Hardly a word is spoken , yet , watching Lilliana's face , we realize something is wrong . We figure the problem lies in the fact that Giovanni has accepted a position in a new industrial complex his company has set up in Sicily . The job means he will be away for a whole year with better pay and a promotion . This doesn't sit well with Lilianna , and her attitude at the dance hall explains the way she feels the separation will take Giovanni away from her forever . As Giovanni gets settled into the job , we watch him roaming the streets of the little town . He is clearly a loner since he prefers his own company . Giovanni has to struggle with the fact his elderly father has stayed behind and must deal with the idea of living in a nursing home . Toward the end of the story he receives a letter from Lilianna where she gives him news of home . Giovanni , who obviously misses her sees a way for resuming their relationship . Ermanno Olmi was a documentary maker before his magnificent screen debut with " Il Posto " . In a way , " I Fidanzati " feels like a continuation of the other film . The ballroom sequence brings to mind the New Year's ball of the former movie . This idea is arrived at because the bored expressions of the couples at the neighborhood dance hall . No one seems to be having fun . Lilianna , whose face betrays her , shows a woman at the border of despair as she figures that Giovanni's departure means the end of her chances of marrying Giovanni . The director was wise to employ Lamberto Caimi to photograph this film . The music score of Gianni Ferrio plays well with the action on the screen . Mr . Olmi guided his unknown cast to give excellent performances . Carlo Cabrini and Anna Canzi seem to have been naturals for the screen , yet , neither actor went to have a career in the Italian cinema . Mr . Cabrini , whose presence is deeply felt in the film does an amazing job in his portrayal of Giovanni . Ermanno Olmi , a director's director , showed that his early promise with " Il Posto " was not a fluke , as he continued to create human comedies about the way he saw his country at this time of his career .
Genocide	" Ararat " , directed brilliantly by Atom Egoyan , is a film that will resonate with both parties that were involved in that long forgotten page of history that the world never seems to talk about . The sad story of that shameful incident is the basis of Mr . Egoyan's film . The action takes place in a film that Edward Saroyan is filming about the genocide . At another level we see an Armenian historian , Ani , lecture about what really happened . Ani's son is in love with his step-sister , something that seems repugnant to the mother . Celia , the object of Raffi's love , keeps showing up wherever Ani speaks to shame her . On another level , we see the how Raffi , having returned from a trip to Turkey is being interviewed by a Customs officer at the airport . We realize Raffi doesn't want to have the sealed film reels examined by the wise inspector . Their conversation go back and forth as one learns the truth . This multi layered film has the rich texture only a director like Atom Egoyam could give it . He is at his best , as he clearly proves in his direction . Arsinee Khanjian , plays Ani with such fire that she smolders the screen any time one sees her . Ms . Khanjian is one of the best interpreters of her husband's work . Her expressive face shows what clearly is going in her mind at any given moment . The rest of the cast responds well to the director's guidance . David Alpay , Christopher Plummer , Marie-Josee Croze , Elias Koteas , Eric Bogosian , Charles Aznavour and Bruce Greenwood , a veteran actor of some of Mr . Egoyan's films , do excellent acting in the film . The only problem for most viewers seem to involve not having any background to the tumultuous time the film depicts , thus making it a bit unapproachable . " Ararat " , like " Hotel Rwanda " and films that have captured the human suffering , is a film to treasure .
Kubrik's kiss to New York	This film , directed by Stanley Kubrik , is not seen often these days . It was a surprise that it was shown recently on cable as it gave all of Mr . Kubrik's fans the opportunity to watch one of his early works . The copy that was shown is amazing in that it has been kept , or probably restored , with great care . Stanley Kubrik was a genius ; he probably knew more about movies than many other of his contemporaries . Yet , his legacy is somehow meager , only sixteen full length features in almost fifty years as a director . Killer's Kiss shows the Manhattan of 1955 like it has never been seen in other movies made in the city . Mr . Kubrik's attention to detail and style overshadows the story . The main problem is his screen play , it never involves the viewer in what he is seeing . This is exacerbated by the voice over one hears over the action . We never know what makes these people tick , much less what's going on in their heads at any given moment . The story is told in a flashback . We see Davy waiting at the old Pennsylvania Station for the train that is to take him to Seattle . He had planned to leave with Gloria , but she seems never to appear ; for all we know , he might be waiting in vain . The streets of Manhattan come alive in the brilliant black and white cinematography by Mr . Kubrik , himself . That old New York that is no longer around , is captured by Mr . Kubrik in such brilliant detail that we mourn the fact those buildings and institutions are not around any more . The night scenes around Times Square , especially the stairway leading to the dance hall have a style that brings some of Edward Hooper's work to mind . Mr . Kubrik deserves credit for filming on location and never making it feel as though those scenes have been fixed to give that effect . In fact , that's where Kubrik's genius comes into play , we realize he had an eye for making things real . The acting is not the main focus of this film . Frank Silvera makes a menacing Vincent , the mobster and dance hall owner . Jamie Smith and Irene Kane , go through the paces , but they don't convey to the viewer the passion that is supposed to be going on between them . This movie should be seen by the serious moviegoer as it shows Mr . Kubrik's tremendous talent . It might be a minor film , in comparison to his best work , but being one of his first movies , one can clearly see what will come later .
The discreet charm of the bourgeoisie	" Teorema " , directed by Pier Paolo Pasolini is a an obscure film that will not gratify the casual viewer because the use of symbolism in the narrative . This film is problematic , but we are given clues at the beginning of it , so it makes a bit of a difference putting all the elements together to come to a conclusion . It was significant this film was made in 1968 at the height of the students ' unrest in Paris and other places . Pasolini was influenced by what was happening as he makes a stand about what he perceived what was the evil in the society in which he lived . The film begins with a discussion about the role of the bourgeoisie and how it affected the workers . We also observe an industrial complex in Northern Italy that is empty of all activity . Like most Italian film makers , Pasolini's leanings were left of center and the communist emblem is clearly visible in the movie . The scene changes to Lucia and Paolo's villa . They are having a party in which the young man , or " the visitor " , is seen lounging among the guests . This man , a handsome stranger , is seen in later scenes as having sexual relations with all the members of the wealthy family , including the maid . It's evident the father realizes what's going on between the visitor and his wife , as well as with the son and the daughter because he himself is involved with the young man . When the visitor announces suddenly his departure , the family falls apart . One of the most affected is the maid , who goes back to a place in the country where she sits for a quite some time before levitating above the house , creating a religious event in which she is probably seen as a saint , or at least miraculous . Emilia is taken to a place where she is being buried alive and her tears form a puddle on the ground . Back in the house , everyone else is affected in a different fashion . Odetta , is perhaps the one suffering the most because she falls into a comatose state clenching her fist around an object that appears to have been given to her by the visitor . Lucia , the mother , goes out in her car looking for boys for casual sex and the father also is seen at Milan's main railway station stripping bare after he has been seen cruising a male hustler , only to be seen later on running naked through a sort of barren field . Pasolini works as a minimalist in this story that seems to be saying the evil in that society is the rampant materialism . Only by shedding one's own accumulated wealth can one achieve salvation , as is the case with Paolo , the father . Or maybe being humiliated like Lucia is also a way of redemption . All these ideas float throughout the film with the music of Mozart's Requiem and the interesting cinematography of Giuseppe Rizzolini , who shot the film in long takes . Terence Stamp made an interesting appearance as the visitor / angel who knows all the people in the villa intimately . Silvana Mangano gives an excellent reading of her Lucia , a rich Italian woman . Massimo Girotti , a handsome actor , makes an excellent contribution with his Paolo , and Laura Betti , is equally effective as the mysterious Emilia . Although this is not one of Pasolini's most approachable film , it's worth a look . It's easy to dismiss Pasolini and Teorema , but this film is not a failure .
This " ole " house . . .	David Fincher's Panic Room is a film packed with action even though it only uses one set , the old house that Meg Altman buys and comes with so many surprises attached , besides the location and the incredible amount of space , even for a brownstone in Manhattan's Upper West Side . The script by David Koepp is very tightly written . It keeps us engrossed in the story and we don't want to keep our eyes from the screen for one moment . The Panic Room of the title comes in very handy for Meg and her daughter and serves them well and protect them from the intruders trying to get into it to get the treasure left by the previous owner . Jody Foster's acting is very tight and controlled . We enjoyed Forest Whitaker's bandit with a conscience . Jared Leto shows his versatility here in a role completely different from his previous appearances . This is a film that will entertain as well as please the viewer .
But will the robots do windows ?	We didn't watch this film when it was released but caught with it on cable recently . Alex Proyas , the director , shows a talent for what one sees on the screen . The film is loosely based on Isaac Asimov's novel of the same title , which was adapted for the screen by Jeff Vintar and Akiva Goldsman , one of the best writers for this medium . The film is pure entertainment . As such , without any expectations , it turned out to be a lot of fun . The story , as these highly glossy movies go , relies a lot on the special visual effects that dazzled us because of what the designing team were able to accomplished with the creation of thousand robots all over the place . Will Smith , as Del Spooner , is immediately likable . Mr . Smith has a way to get the viewer on his side from the start and we go with him for this fantastic ride , that of course , is far fetched , at best , but since we fall right into what's going on , it's easy to see the ride is a fun one . Bridget Moynahan is seen as Susan Calvin , an assistant to Dr . Albert Lanning , a genius whose work in robotics gets him killed . Ms . Moynahan , who was also seen in " The Farm " , is the perfect foil for Mr . Smith , as both embark in the adventure we are watching . James Cromwell , the inventor , is only seen briefly , as well as another excellent actor , Bruce Greenwood , who has only a few scenes in the film . Watch " I Robot " because Alex Proyas and his team has made it a marvelous escape thriller that will not bore anyone .
Love in the time of war	War is raging in Southern Italy . As the story opens we are taken to a small church where people have come to atone for sins they have committed . We see a prostitute in the aisle talking loudly as she wants to repents for her trespasses . At the same moment , the camera focuses on Nunziata , a beautiful woman , standing at the back of the nave . A soldier approaches and goes behind her and we watch as he begins to paw her all over and she responds his advances . Life in this small hill town is difficult . Nunziata's daughter , the happy go lucky Miluzza , is wiser than her young years . Nunziata is married to Gioacchino , a tailor , but she is free to see whoever she wants . Miluzza , who is admired by all the men in town , even the priest is aware of the young girl charms , doesn't have a boyfriend of her own . When tragedy strikes and her mother dies , she is left alone to fend for herself . Help comes in the way of Don Peppe , who sees Miluzza working in his canning factory and immediately sets his eye on seducing the beautiful girl . Don Peppe's wife realizes what is going on and chases Miluzza away , but as the war is getting closer , she takes refuge in someone's house . This is the place where Pietro , a wounded soldier who is walking home from Sicily meets Miluzza . She tends to his wounds and helps him get to his well to do family who lives not far away . Along the way , Pietro falls desperately in love with Miluzza . His family are not too happy to see the son enter into a marriage they consider it's below him . There is also a doubt in Pietro's mother , Gesummina's mind whether the girl is a virgin and worthy of her son's love . Lina Wertmuller a director that was quite popular in the 1970s when her much loved films " Seven Beauties " , and " Swept Away " , were released , has adapted a novel by Domenico Rea with Ugo Pirro , to give us this movie about love , sex , and honor , that gets a great treatment on the screen . Her cinematographer , Ennio Guarnieri , captured the life in the small hill town in all its splendor . The haunting music by Ennio Morricone contributes to enhance the film . Best thing in the movie is the delicious Lucia Cara , who gives life to Miluzza . Ms . Cara makes a wonderful heroine in this tale of lust amid some of the days of WWII in the Campania region of Italy . Stefania Sandrelli , a gorgeous actress , plays Nunziata , the prostitute with a heart of gold . Raoul Bova is the man who is swept off his feet by girl that doesn't expect anything back from him . Isa Danieli is wonderful as Gesummina , the matriarch in Pietro's family . Ms . Wertmuller deserved better with this film . We don't remember ever having seen it released commercially in this country . The wonderful DVD transfer shows a film that will show why Ms . Wertmuller is one of Italy's best directors , in spite of some recent disappointments .
Advanced Math	" Proof " , the excellent play by David Auburn , was one of the best things in the New York stage in recent memory . Part of the attraction was the intelligent subject matter , math science , and how it connected the four characters one got to meet . The casting was an ideal one , Mary Louise Parker , Larry Briggman , Johanna Day and Ben Shenkman , playing Cahterine , Robert , Claire and Hal , respectively . Mr . Auburn and Rebecca Miller , a movie director , herself , took the task of adapting " Proof " for the screen . The result , directed by John Madden , opens the play in cinematic terms , no small undertaking in presenting the movie to a wider audience who might not be interested in science , and much less in the advanced math that plays an important role in the proceedings . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . Catherine , the 27 year old , at the center of the film , is a woman who has stayed behind to take care of her aging father , a man much esteemed in academic circles , who is suffering from , perhaps , a neurological illness that is killing him slowly . Catherine has , in a way , sacrificed her life in order to see that Robert spends his last days at home instead of at an institution . The death of the father brings Claire home . This woman , who lives in New York , wants to get rid of everything connected with her father . She even has made plans for Catherine to move from Chicago to be near each other in New York , where things are much better . To complicate things , Harold , the nerdy math student , finds a hidden notebook that might contain a discovery that will revolutionize math . The only problem is the proof might not have been the dead man's own creation . " Proof " works as a film because of Mr . Madden's direction . We are kept involved in what is going on because we have been won by Catherine , the wounded woman trying to live her life without having to tend to a sick man . Catherine love for math , in a way , makes her realize her place is in the same institution where her father made mathematical discoveries as she will be following his steps . Gwyneth Paltrow makes an excellent Catherine , a role she had played on the London stage . Ms . Paltrow is a welcome presence in the movie because of the intelligence she projects when working with a good director like John Madden . In fact , it has been a while since we saw this actress in a film . Hope Davis , another excellent actress , plays Claire , the materialistic sister who has arrived and who wants to transform the frumpy Catherine and mold her to her own taste . Ms . Davis has accustomed us to expect a valuable contribution to any film in which she plays . As Claire , she clearly understand who this character she is portraying really is . Anthony Hopkins has only a few good moments on the screen . Jake Gyllenhaal's character Harold is not as effective as Ben Shenkman's was on the stage . In fact , Mr . Gyllenhaal , with his dark good looks , seems to be someone who would not be interested in math at all . " Proof " is an immensely rewarding film thanks to what John Madden's vision .
Making movies	" The Bad and the Beautiful " takes a look at Hollywood . This incisive take about how movies are made , directed by Vincente Minnelli , dares to go behind the scenes to show what goes on in the way the film industry operates . The film adaptation by Charles Schnee gives us a good idea of that unreal world of fantasy and hype . At the center of the story is Jonathan Shields , a young man with connections to the industry . He wants to follow his father's footsteps and goes at it vigorously , making friends and enemies along the way . Jonathan discovers he can be ruthless whenever he wants . His first victim is Fred Amiel , the talented director who Jonathan bypasses in favor of a more established one . Jonathan quickly forgets the friendship Fred and his wife showed him before becoming a big producer . Then there is there is Georgia Larrion , the boozy daughter of a famous actor . Jonathan shows how he wants Georgia to succeed in the business , personally taking care of selling her to star in his big project , only to betray her with another woman , a glamorous bit player . When Georgia discovers the truth , she flees Jonathan's mansion in a clear night that suddenly turns into a torrential downpour and loses control of the car , but she doesn't suffer a scratch ! The last victim of Mr . Shields is the Pulitzer prize winner , James Lee Bartlow , who Jonathan coaxes into leaving his academic life to adapt his own novel for the movies . James is married to the flighty Rosemary , in whom Jonathan discovers a weak link that will do anything to hobnob with the celebrities . Jonathan makes it easy for Rosemary to fall into an affair with the star of Shields ' film . When we first watched this film , it seemed much better , than on this viewing where a lot of things surface to make some of the story much weaker than before . Some viewers have compared this film with the fate of Orson Welles in Hollywood , and there are a couple of references that could be interpreted that way . Whether it was so , or not , it's up to the viewer to guess where the truth lies . Kirk Douglas gave a strong performance as Jonathan Shields . Mr . Douglas showed he clearly understood who this man was . He runs away with the film , in our humble opinion . Lana Turner , a beautiful presence in any movie , is good , but at times she appears to be overwhelmed by the range of emotions she has to project , especially with that phony car scene . Dick Powell and Gloria Graham put in an excellent appearance as the Bartlows . Barry Sullivan disappears after Lana shows up , not to be seen until the end . Walter Pigeon is effective as the studio head . Gilbert Roland is perfect as Gaucho , the Latin actor with a lot of charisma . Mr . Minnelli shows he wasn't afraid to portray the industry the way we see it in the film , not a small accomplishment , knowing well how it could have backfired on him . Hollywood is not forgiving to those who dare to show its ugly side and that's when the parallel with Orson Welles problems with the system and eventual exile can be drawn .
Entrapped	This film was shown as part of a Vancouver Film Festival several years ago , where also Mr . Perez's " La Vida es Silbar " was presented in 1999 . Last night it was shown as part of CUNY Cinematheque . One can't help but to think that Madagascar is the continuation of Hello Hemingway , which was presented last week in the same venue . Could it be that director Fernando Perez is continuing the story about what happened to the young girl in the first film after she grew up and had her own family ? It seems to this viewer it could be possible . The mother and the daughter are trapped in their surroundings . They are constantly moving around . What happened to the mother , as a young woman , is happening to the young girl right now . The young Laurita wants to get away from it all , the same way as her mother did in the first story . Looking at the young woman one can predict that maybe at one point in her life , she might commit suicide . Also , Laurita seems to be totally disenchanted by what life has dealt her . The mother's world is very limited . She goes to her teaching job , although one never sees her tutoring anyone . She sits in the faculty room , surrounded by bored teachers . She is finally recognized by the dean of the university , but at that moment she is given a postcard from a former student that has gone to Paris . She tells a fellow teacher she couldn't care less to know Paris , or London or Rome , perhaps because it is impossible to even think about going away from the responsibility of having her mother and daughter to support . Also , the teacher one sees sharpening the pencil announces she will be going to another town , away from the capital . The mother recalls her youth several times , once mentioning the fun she had with a mulatto friend who turned into a model and how she also had pet mice but all disappeared leaving only the female behind . Could she be saying they have been left behind by men that went abroad ? At the height of her despair , she burns a chicken dish she is cooking and laments how everything is against her . The grandmother's role is very symbolic in that she is seen playing monopoly , a game that wouldn't mean anything in a marxist society . We hear her while she is playing saying to her partner that she will buy as many properties as she can . Ultimately , isn't the title of the film revealing ? That society has failed , for reasons that also made the island of Madagascar socialist regime fail . Also , the island has become a prison where no one escapes , and nothing makes sense at all , be it because of the " special period " , or because the ' blockade ' of the country . Fernando Perez obviously knows what he is saying , very well . It is a piercing look he is sharing with us . It is probably very painful for the director to tell it , but he had the courage to do it .
The young would be astronaut	Valentin , the young boy living in the Buenos Aires of the sixties , is a boy that is more mature than what his tender age shows . He is articulate , wise and knows a lot about the life of the astronauts he hears about . In fact , he has built a lot of facsimiles of the space ships and even has his own version of a space suit . What Valentin doesn't have is parents . We see him living with his older grandmother in a residential area of the capital . There isn't much money , so their lives are not exactly what one might call it even middle class . Yet , the grandmother is a loving woman that cares intensely for her little charge . It's never clear what happened between the parents , but it appears Valentin's mother was abused by the womanizer husband . Alejandro Agresti's film , which he also wrote , was shown briefly in a commercial run here , but disappeared quickly , so we never got around to it . It came as a total surprise when it was shown in one of the cable channels in its original version . The film is worth seeing because of Rodrigo Noya , the sweet Valentin of the film . Valentin is the narrator of the story . He amazes us with the way he looks at things and his understanding of what's going on around him . This young actor made an excellent contribution to the film without ever being bratty . Our hearts go to the poor little boy that fate has abandoned and is even lonelier after the sudden death of the grandmother . Carmen Maura , as the grandmother , is a joy to watch . She is a Spaniard who has emigrated to Argentina . Julieta Cardinali is seen briefly as Leticia , a beautiful blonde woman who Valentin would like to be his new mother , hoping his father will marry her . When the relationship ends , Valentin is miserable , but Leticia , seeing the goodness and loneliness of the young boy stays by him . Mex Urtizberea plays Rufo , the pianist neighbor who is kind to Valentin . " Valentin " was a surprise that brought joy and fun at the same time .
Single room occupancy	The small resort hotels in England were the home of impoverished aristocracy as well as people of a certain status in that society . This was typical of the era where the action takes place . Lonely individuals dwelt in these establishments because they couldn't , perhaps , afford other living arrangements . It is one of these seaside places where we are taken to observe how people lived and behaved in a civilized manner and formed friendships out of necessity to calm their own loneliness . The people one meets at the Beauregard Hotel are a motley crew indeed . There's the aging retired Major Pollock , who comes under scrutiny as the rest of the residents discover he is a man that loves to prey on unaccompanied ladies at the local cinema . The mere idea of having this sort of person among their midst sends an uptight Mrs . Roilton-Bell to ask the other guests to side with her in getting rid of this pathetic man . Little does she realize her own daughter , Sibyl , a spinster dominated by her mother , loves the Major secretly . His absence will be sadly missed by her because she has developed a fondness for the man in spite of all the faults and the lies this man tells everyone . The manager of the hotel , Ms . Cooper , has her own problems . She's in love with John Malcolm , a minor writer , that appreciates his whiskey much more than making a commitment to her . When his former wife , Ann Shankland appears one day , sends John over the edge . Secretly , he is still in love with her . At the end , things change quite a bit in favor of the disgraced Major Pollock , who heeds Ms . Cooper's advice and decides to stay after all . Where else could he live for what he is paying here ? And the fact that he would have to stop seeing Sibyl , also weighs heavily in his decision , for he realizes he also likes the shy and sheltered woman . Terence Rattigan had written two one act plays which were adapted for the screen by himself and John Gay . The film was directed by Delbert Mann who showed an uncanny understanding for the material , loosely constructed to add the acting styles of Burt Lancaster , who was involved in the project and one of its stars , Rita Hayworth . David Niven , who plays Major Pollock , steals the film . He had one of the best roles of his career getting under the skin of this creepy old man who lies about himself to the other residents . He might be sexually starved and has to resort to chase unsuspecting women in movie theaters . Deborah Kerr , also gives a marvelous performance as Sibyl , the repressed woman who loves the Major . Burt Lancaster appears as John Malcolm , the weakest of all the actors in the film . Rita Hayworth is seen as Mrs . Shankland , John's ex-wife who clearly can't get him out of her mind . This is one of her best work in the cinema . The three English ladies , Wendy Hiller , Gladys Cooper , and Cathleen Nesbitt , do a wonderful job with their parts . It's a joy to see them in action . Although a bit dated , " Separate Tables " still is interesting to watch because of the excellent work of Mr . Niven .
Human error	For those who have seen this film and find it impossible to believe the premise of Coleman Silk passing himself as a white man , they should be referred to a very enlightening article that appeared in the New York Times on November 6th , written by Gwenda Blair , about Allison Davis , who is a living example of what the film is all about . Mr . Davis own life as an African-American could be the subject of another film because he has experienced the discrimination in his own flesh and what he reveals in that article , mirrors the novel by Phillip Roth . The main issue for most movie goers is the casting of Anthony Hopkins as Coleman Silk . Most critics and viewers have expressed opinions of disbelief at a white actor playing a racially mixed man . Well , in all honesty , would those same people find fault with Mr . Hopkins own take on other characters he has played ? After all , he is only an actor trying to bring life to the character . There are times that looking at Mr . Hopkins at the beginning of the film makes one realize that he has features that are not exactly ' white ' . Whoever did the make up really captured the way Coleman Silk must look at that stage of his life . As far as Nicole Kidman , no one can deny her beauty and perfect features , but to find her miscast because of those qualities is to relegate her to only playing parts that call for stunning looking women on the screen , or have her in disguises such as her own interpretation of an ugly Virginia Woolf . Robert Benton has produced a film that has a lot of hidden nuances . He has created a film that is disturbing , as it is uplifting in bringing the actors to do a very good job under his direction . One of the surprises of this movie is Wentworth Miller , who plays the younger Coleman . We can see him in flashbacks as an ambitious young man who wanted much more than his working class parents could give him in life . I don't think there is a more chilling moment in a film this year as the one when the young Coleman tells his mother what he has decided to do with his life , which , incidentally , doesn't include her , or his siblings . Anna Deavere Smith plays the mother with such dignity that we are almost looking into her soul . It is perhaps this very moment the key to understand what Coleman Silk has carried within him throughout his life and the price he paid for it . The cast assembled for the film is excellent . Ed Harris as Lester , Faunia's estranged husband and Gary Sinisi , as Nathan Zuckerman are good in their short , but effective roles . The film though belongs to Anthony Hopkins . This is his best role in years . His own take on this troubled man that finds love and passion so late in life is very believable . Nicole Kidman plays Faunia with conviction . Her scenes with Mr . Hopkins give the impression that in spite of the tragedy she has experienced in life , she feels the warmth of the love that Coleman shows her so unexpectedly .
Class contrasts in the provinces	Lucrecia Martel , the talented director of " La Cienaga " , creates a dark picture with this film that takes place in the northern part of Argentina that borders Bolivia . Having seen " La nina santa " prior to watching this movie , there is a sort of connection between the two , as the director explores the darker side of human beings , which seems to consume her . " La Cienaga " is a film that mirrored the times when it was made . The last part of the 20th century was devastating for Argentina as most people were affected by the rapid changes in the economy that befell the land . As the film starts , we suffer from disorientation . We are taken to Mecha's house in the country where a group of people are seen sitting around the swimming pool . No one says anything to one another ; it's as though the oppressing heat has numbed everyone . The only thing left to do is to drink to oblivion . Mecha appears to be inebriated when she tripped and fell . The wine glass cuts her in the chest . Blood is seen all over the place . Then , as though by magic , we are taken to meet Tali and her family , who appear to live in town . There is a sharp contrast between the two households . Where Mecha's house is run down , it still shows signs of a richer past . Tali's home , on the other hand , is a much humbler place . Ms . Martel makes a subtle comment on what she shows us . There are a lot of things that are wrong in Mecha's house , like the lesbianism shown between one of her daughters and the maid . Incest is also hinted when Jose , the older son , who has come from Buenos Aires to see his mother after her accident , shows a sick interest in his beautiful sister . He enters the bathroom while she is taking a shower . At the same time , we are shown on the television set , an incident where people are attesting to seeing the Virgin Mary in a water tank on the roof of a house . The director imbues the film in symbolism , which seems to be hard for viewers to follow . The story is deeper than what the images present for our viewing . That is why this enigmatic film did not reach a wide audience . It's a shame because Lucrecia Martel's film has a hypnotic way to get us involved . Graciela Borges , an Argentine film star in her own right , plays Mecha , a woman of the moneyed society who appears to have seen better days . Ms . Borges underplays her character , achieving a great appearance . Mercedes Moran , who played Helena in " La nina santa " , is seen as Lita , Mecha's cousin , Lita shows a lot of common sense . She also has a lot of problems , but she is much grounded than her cousin that is decaying in the old country estate . The ensemble cast is also good . While " La Cienaga " is a disturbing work . Lucrecia Martel wrote and directed with great style . It's worth a look of fans of the Argentine cinema because it shows one of the most original talents in a film that dares to go where others don't .
For all we know	" Mrs . Palfrey at the Claremont " is the right vehicle for Joan Plowright in which to shine . As guided by Dan Ireland , this bittersweet novel by Elizabeth Taylor about a genteel world in our time gets a great treatment for the screen by Ruth Sacks . Mrs . Palfrey is a woman of independent means that decides to spend some time in a London hotel she saw in an advertisement in Scotland . As happens with this sort of thing , the picture in the newspaper was much better than the reality this lady encounters as she settles for her stay at the Claremont . One of the things that made Mrs . Palfrey's mind was the promise of the fine English cuisine something the taxi driver , that is taking her to her new home , finds extremely amusing . The hotel is home to some older women and men that are retired , but who are nearby to all the attractions that a great city like London has to offer . Since it's such a small place , curiosity and a bit of gossip are found among the people one sees , basically in the dining hall at breakfast , or at dinner . Mrs . Palfrey meets Ludovic when she falls on the sidewalk in front of his apartment . " Ludo " , as he wants to be called , is a busker , a young man that sings in the underground in exchange of the coins passersby throw in his guitar case . Mrs . Palfrey has a grandson , Desmond , who proves to be illusive , at best ; so trying to be kind to Ludo , she invites him for dinner at the Claremont and asks him to pretend he is her grandson . This proves to be the beginning of a happy and uncomplicated friendship between a woman at the end of her life and a young man just beginning his . The main reason for watching the film is Joan Plowright in one of the best roles of her career . Lately , this fine actress has been relegated to playing grandmothers , and assorted ladies in the American cinema , and frankly , she is an actress that clearly deserves better , although not many older roles are written for actresses her age . The film is targeted to a mature audience that identifies with the leading lady of the film . Rupert Friend makes a good Ludovic and plays well against Ms . Plowright . Zoe Tapper is Gwendolyn , the girl he meets at the video store when they are both reaching for " Brief Encounter " , which is Mrs . Palfrey's favorite movie . Anna Massey is splendid as Mrs . Arbuthnot and Millicent Martin is seen in a small role . The film is a delightful way to spend time at the movies with great company . Thanks to Joan Plowright and Dan Ireland , this is a film the joy it is .
The Joffrey	" The Company " seems to be the right vehicle for director Robert Altman to tackle . It has all the Altman's elements in it . A lot of people crowding the screen , incomprehensible dialog among the different parties we eavesdrop along the way , and magnificent dance numbers supplied by the Joffrey Ballet , that used to be based here in New York , but has moved to greener pastures and perhaps more funding in Chicago . The world of a ballet company comes to life thanks to Neve Campbell's interest in it . She evidently was instrumental for bringing the film to life . The story is about the company , but it takes a look at Ms . Campbell , who plays one of the leading roles . One gets to see the mechanism of the daily life in the rehearsal studio where the dancers meet for their daily routines . We see them preparing for the season . We realize this people in the company are human beings . We watch at the beginning of the film how Ry , is picked to replace one of the ballerinas because she's noticed by the ballet master to be dancing with a neck injury . This young woman is devastated , but has no other choice to go along with the company's policy . She sees how Ry makes a splash dancing the piece that probably will be her signature . In a way , it's ironic that this same woman will step at the end to substitute for an injured Ry . The case is made in the film about dancers that suffer injuries : they can be substituted in no time flat by other dancers waiting in the wings . The film is about dance , it captures the atmosphere of the world of ballet . We see an egotistical Albert , the head of the company , as he dominates and rules over everybody and everything . In a world where a lot of gays have excelled with their contributions and innovations , only a few words are said in passing . Robert Joffrey , the founder and guiding spirit of his ballet company is not even mentioned ! Antonelli , upon receiving an award given by an Italian organization makes the case for tolerance for boys aspiring to be ballet dancers , but it doesn't ring true . The story of Ry's love affair with Josh , is only secondary in the film . One wonders what will become of their love , as nothing comes out of what one sees in the picture . Also , we see that in ballet , as well as in other performing arts , age is anathema for the people that dare to appear older . There's always another young talent that will eclipse the older performer . In fact , one of the most relevant parts involves an ballerina who confesses to be forty three and she is patronized by the tyrannical Antonelli . The dancing is nothing short of spectacular . The pas de deux danced by Ry and Domingo is exquisite . The opening number is a typical Joffrey work that shows this versatile company at it's best . Unfortunately , one never sees a full length work because of the limitations of the film . Neve Campbell strikes the right mood for Ry . James Franco , doesn't have much to do . One hardly hears him speak ! Malcom McDowell , as the artistic director Antonelli , gives an over the top performance . His take on this man is right on target . Robert Altman is ultimately the man with the vision . He offers us an inside view of the world of ballet , as he conceives it . He moves the camera to surprising angles to make the dancing come alive . This is another excellent film by Robert Altman .
The Grim Reaper vacations in Italy	" Death Takes a Holiday " was based on a play , and it's interesting that another playwright was called upon to adapt it for the screen . The original piece by Alberto Casella feels almost Pirandellian , in that it elevates every day things into a philosophical realm . Maxwell Anderson's respect for the original text shows in his elegant treatment of the material . The film is greatly enhanced by Mitchell Leisen's direction . The people behind this 1934 film gathered an interesting cast to play Mr . Casella's characters . The idea of making death a human being was a novel idea . When the Grim Reaper becomes real in the person of Prince Sirki , it opened the possibilities for how he looked at life from this new perspective . The idea of bringing Prince Sirki into the Duke Lambert's palatial home was the right setting , for it gives the movie an elegance that only in that context could be achieved . It's clear that Prince Sirki falls for the beautiful Grazia instantly . Grazia is almost engaged to Corrado , the Duke's son . It's a joy to see these aristocrats at play when they encounter the figure of the prince . Only the Duke knows about him and is always by the prince's side in order to help him grasp the earthly nuances that supposedly , Sirki knows nothing about . The ensemble performances Mr . Leisen achieved from his cast shows on the finished product we see . Fredric March makes an elegant presence as Sirki . The beautiful Evelyn Venable is perfect as Grazia . Guy Standing makes the most of his Duke Lambert . Henry Travers , Kent Taylor , Gail Patrick and Katherine Alexancer are seen in minor parts . How can anyone compare this elegant production with the recent remake of this film ? It is a puzzle to this observer , at best .
Air travel is not what it used to be !	Wes Craven , a man who knows a thing , or two , about scaring the viewer , is at it again with his new film , " Red Eye " , which proves to be a surprising late summer entry . As a thriller , the film owes a lot to the director . The screen play by Carl Ellsworth is clear and it makes sense with a plot that could well happen . Lisa Reisert is used to working with the demanding public she has to deal with on a daily basis as one of the managers of the luxury hotel in Miami where she probably has to use all her tact in order to keep the egos of the guests that come to the hotel looking to be pampered . Having been to her grandmother's funeral in Texas , she is on her way back home when her flight takes a lengthy delay . Lisa meets on the checking line a young man , Jackson Rippner , who shows an interest in Lisa , and who , surprise , surprise , is seated next to her on the flight ! It turns that Jackson has more than a passing fancy for the beautiful Lisa . As a thriller , the film packs a lot in its action . We never feel bored , or let down by what Mr . Craven has in store for us . The acting , especially by the brilliant Cillian Murphy , who plays Jackson , is first rate , like anything this young actor does . Ms . McAdams is also good as the spunky girl who will not let anyone put one over her . The supporting cast has Brian Cox , Jayma Maya , and Jack Scalia , among the players . " Red Eye " is only eighty five minutes long , but it certainly will thrill any fans of Mr . Craven and of the genre .
Jealousy symphony	Sir Alfred DeCarter is a famous orchestra leader much in demand . After he returns from one of his tours , he is told by his dense brother-in-law , August Henshler , that acting on Alfred's request , he engaged a private detective to follow Daphne , his wife . That is the way for August to comply with an innocent request for ' keeping an eye on her ' . DeCarter goes into a rage because he would never suspect his Daphne of any wrongdoing and rips up the detective's report . The famous conductor has everything working against him as a sudden attack of jealousy gets the best of him . Alfred begins putting a plan together as he starts to lead his orchestra into a concert . As each piece in the program is played , Alfred begins planning how to deal with Daphne because he has reasons to believe she has been cheating him with Tony , his handsome , and younger , male secretary . Preston Sturges , the creative mind behind this enjoyable film , was at the top of his profession . With this film he solidified his position as one of the most innovative directors of that era in Hollywood . He wrote and directed with impeccable style that characterized most of the work he did for the cinema . Rex Harrison gave an amazing performance as Alfred , the conductor whose jealousy gets the best of him . The last sequence at his apartment , after the concert is one of the best comic turns by this actor who goes through all the emotions , and furniture , in a frenzied manner . Beautiful Linda Darnell is excellent , although her part doesn't allow her to do much more . Rudy Vallee , who had worked with Sturges before , shows an ability to bring to life his character . Barbara Lawrence , Kurt Kreuger , Lionel Stander , and Edgar Kennedy are seen in supporting roles . A delicious comedy thanks to Preston Sturges .
Courage	Sophie Scholl , at one point of her trial , tells the judge and his cronies , as well as the audience of cowards attending the proceedings , that soon they all will be seating in the place she is now occupying . History proved her right as most of the same people that condemned her for treason were proved to be the real traitors . Marc Rothemund , the director , working on Fred Beinersdorfer's screen play , presents us with a courageous figure , Sophie Scholl , who saw the atrocities the Third Reich was doing to her country and dared to speak about it when confronted by the regime . Sophie was part of the student's organization , White Rose , that wanted to inform the German people about facts that were never challenged by anyone because of the consequences such action would mean for whoever spoke the truth . Sophie and her brother were instrumental for several pamphlets informing the population about things that the regime's propaganda didn't tell the German people . Sophie mentioned the unmentionable , the extermination of the Jews , and even the elimination of sick children by people gone mad . The main part of the film involves the interrogation Robert Mohr subjects Sophie as soon as she is arrested . In their exchange Sophie shows an amazing courage and never is seen as being scared of what will happen to her . After she admits to the charges , even Mohr seems to be amazed by her intelligence and resolve . Julia Jentsch is the main reason for seeing this movie . Ms . Jentsch gives a luminous performance as the woman who challenged the higher ups in charge of her country . Gerald Alexander Held , who is seen as Robert Mohr , makes an impression as the man who questions Sophie's motives and tries to break her spirit . Johanna Gastdorf is seen as the kind Else , who shares a cell with Sophie . " Sophie Scholl " is an intelligent film that shows a talented director , Marc Rothemund , and a bright young star of the German cinema , Julia Jentsch , in a film about courage and decency during a crazy time where all hope seemed to have disappeared from Germany .
Don't ask , don't tell	The absurd " Don't ask , don't tell " policy in our armed forces is a big hypocrisy . LIke in all walks of life , homosexuality exists and it's incredible the government has decided to continue with this line of thought to this date . Death doesn't differentiate between gay or straight . As patriotic is the soldier , male or female , that serves his country and dies for it , no matter what their sexual preferences are . It's commendable that director Frank Pierson has decided to bring this story to the screen , based on actual events that occurred not too long ago . The film shows a lot of courage in the part of the people behind this project because of the material . Remembering vaguely this incident that had national media coverage , one is not prepared for the reality one is presented in it . " Soldier Girl " is a document about hatred and ignorance . These macho soldiers have to make a stand belittling and ridiculing people that are different ; they believe it's a deviant behavior to be gay . Their arrogance is such that they will resort to violence in order to make their point . They even go to the same places where gays gather peacefully to have fun , by themselves , and where one would think , no straight person has any business going to . The intrusion into other people's lives is what makes this story so heart wrenching . This is a film to watch because of the magnificent portrayal of the evil Justin Fisher , by Shawn Hatosy . This young actor doesn't seem to stop amazing in whatever character he decides to play . Mr . Hatosy has the knack for transforming himself completely into the character one sees on the screen . Having recently seen him in " Borstal Boy " , as Fisher , he even surpasses what he accomplished in that other movie . His Fisher is a character study into a man that is a closet case , himself , while presenting a tough and manly front to the world . Yet , one gets the impression he wants Winchell to be his sexual partner . The talented Troy Garity is excellent as the slow , but tremendously kind , Barry Winchell . Mr . Garity appears to be a babe in the woods ; he wins us over because his sincerity and honesty . When he falls for the transsexual Calpernia Addams at the Visons night spot , we wonder if he really is that naive , or that deep down Barry feels a love at first sight with her . As Calpernia , Lee Pace is perfectly believable as the person who suddenly finds the right soul mate when Barry begins seeing her . This actor does a wonderful job in getting inside his character . Philip Eddolls makes a perfect Calvin , the young recruit that will act on the hatred that Fisher keeps daring him to do in a sly way . Andre Braugher is the kind Sgt . Diaz , who is totally brainwashed by the army policy of not getting involved , but ultimately helping the bullies under his command maim and kill for no reason at all . " Soldier Girl " is a film that will stay with the viewer for a long , long time . It's hard to forget what bigotry and ignorance can do to people .
Bowling anyone ?	Bobby and Peter Farrelly , the directors of " Kingpin " show a great flair for this type of comedy . Not having seen it when it first was released , we were lucky to catch it on cable the other night , and frankly , it proved to be a happy choice . The Farrellys had a good screen play by Barry Fanaro and Mort Nathan to work with , as they showed a talent for assembling a wonderful cast to make this a winning comedy the fun and exciting film it is . The best thing in the film are Woody Harrelson and Bill Murray . Mr . Harrelson plays Roy Munson , the man who love bowling , but through an unfortunate incident , loses his ability to play the sport he was born to play . Woody Harrelson is wonderful in his portrayal of Munson . Bill Murray's role is much smaller , but he does wonders with it . Best of all is the way we see him at the bowling tournament in Reno with his teased hair in disarray . The rest of the cast is good . Randy Quaid as Ishmael Boorg , gives a funny reading of his naive character . Also the attractive Vanessa Angel plays the woman who has an interest in the game .
Alma Duval	Alma Duval , the woman at the center of this tale , has given her all to raising her family . She has been married more than twenty years to a man that really doesn't appreciate what he has at home . Her three grown children are facing problems of their own . Yet , for all what is bad around her , Alma is the eternal optimist . When we first meet her , she is delivering gifts to her three children that are to be given to their father later on that evening because it's his birthday . Alma hasn't trusted her kids to buy presents for their father , and instead , she has taken the initiative . But instead of being a happy occasion , the birthday celebration turns out to be an unhappy non event because the older Duval has plans to spend the night with his latest girlfriend . Alma is heartbroken . Not only her plans for a small party for her husband has gone awry , but when she tells him about going back to a small town they have left some years ago in order to come to New Orleans , it falls on deaf ears , for he has no intention of ever going back . There are other problems as well . Buddy , the eldest son , wants to go into a new business that shows great potential . His father flatly refuses to go along without hearing about the benefits . The daughter , Virginia , is in love with a medical student that has no serious ideas about their romance . Finally , young Billy , is a complex young man who seems to be having an identity problem . Billy , a sensitive youth , seems to be repulsed by the way his father treats him and his mother . He might be gay , for all we know ; he wants to leave this unhappy environment behind and have his own life . " Hot Spell " , which is based on a novel , feels like it could have been a stage play . Not ever having heard of it , but attracted by the work of its director , Daniel Mann , and the star of the film , Shirley Booth , we were happily surprised with this tight drama , that although a bit predictable , makes a satisfying movie . Mr . Mann and Ms . Booth had collaborated before with happy results in " Come Back Little Sheba " , and they show to have a happy rapport with the material that is the basis of the picture . Anthony Quinn plays the husband that has fallen out of love with his wife a long time ago and has a roving eye for pretty young women that could be his own daughters . Earl Holliman has limited opportunities , and the same goes for Shirley MacLaine . On the other hand , Clint Kimbrough , as Billy , shows he understood the young man he is portraying . Eileen Heckart was great fun to watch as Alma's kind friend and neighbor . This is a film to watch the talented Shirley Booth , who runs away with the picture and makes it her own .
Stolen childhood	" Into the Arms of Strangers " , directed by Mark Jonathan Harris , is a loving account of what parents resort to do in order to save their children from a tragedy that was looming over Europe . Having missed this film when it was first released , we caught up with it in the DVD format that has been lovingly transferred to that medium . The story of the " Kindertransport " is recounted by some of the children that participated in it . We watch them as they are today , and through pictures , and sometimes on those old newsreels and films where they are captured as children in Germany , and the countries where the prosecution of Jews took an ugly turn . Our heart goes to some of these older people that speak with such dignity in spite of what was done to them and their families . It's a tribute to the people who tell us what happened to them in the way they express their experiences without venom , or malice . After all , these persons showcased in the documentary are all survivors , something that thousands other Jewish children didn't have the same fate . One can only imagine what these individuals went through at such an early life , many without being able to speak English , or made themselves understood in the households that received them . Imagine a child separated from loving parents having to deal with a world gone mad . It speaks volumes the people that tells us their stories turned out to be the way they did ! Dame Judy Dench's narration works well in the context of the material being shown . Mark Jonathan Harris has made a valuable contribution to show the whole world how a mad man changed these children's lives , and their parents ' forever .
The trip to Margate	Graham Swift's brilliant novel serves as the basis of this film , adapted and directed by Fred Schipisi , who gathered some of the best English talent to give life to the characters of the novel in a satisfying film that will not disappoint . We are taken to a local pub where three old friends have gone to have a drink before embarking on a trip to Margate . When Vic arrives with a box , it's made clear the ashes of another friend is what has prompted the reunion . In flashbacks , we are taken to see Jack's life from the days of WWII and the way the four friends have met and how their lives have been intertwined . There is also Amy , Jack's widow , who is taking a trip on her own to visit a daughter who has been committed to an institution because she is mentally challenged . Amy is also a key figure in the story because of the love Jack felt for her . Vince , Jack's son , is driving a late model car to Margate and takes Vic , Ray and Lenny with him . the purpose is to scatter the ashes in the place which Jack wanted to live with Amy , but never got around to it . Vince , is the key figure in the story , which is made clear when he makes a detour to a place that is the pivotal part of this tale . Michael Caine is Jack , the dead man , who is seen in flashbacks . Bob Hoskins plays Ray . David Hemmings and Tom Courtenay are seen as Lenny and Vic . Helen Merrin is magnificent in a subtle performance as Amy . Ray Winstone is Vince . Fred Schipisi succeeded in creating the right atmosphere in the adaptation of the novel . His sensitive direction works well and he gets excellent backing from his distinguished cast .
Y Alfonso Cuaron tambien !	The best thing that ever happened to the Harry Potter saga is the selection of Alfonso Cuaron to direct the film and bring the third installment to the screen . Mr . Cuaron is a huge talent , and his contribution to this movie is enormous . Credit must go to Mr . Cuaron in perhaps getting Daniel Radcliffe to be a bit less stiff than in the other two films before . Also , Mr . Cuaron has the advantage of bringing together most of the best actors of the English stage and cinema . David Thewlis excels as Professor Lupin . This excellent actor has never been better and it's a shame we don't get to see him much . What can one say of the tremendously gifted Alan Rickman ? His contribution is also vital to the film . Gary Oldman as Sirius Black is amazing . So is Timothy Spall , in the small role of Peter Pettigrew . On the other hand , the female roles are a bit anemic . One would have liked to have seen more of the incomparable Julie Christie , who is seen through a glass darkly ! Emma Thompson is hilarious as Professor Sybil Trelawney . Let's hope that now that Mr . Cuaron has been found , the producers entrust him with the next films .
The five seasons	This is a hypnotic film to watch . The beauty of it lays in the simplicity in which it has been told . Director Ki-duk Kim's images feel like paintings by great masters . This story about Karma and Buddist beliefs could have used a bit of trimming to make it more appealing , since at times it is too static . This is a film to stay away for those interested in fast action or special effects . No one is going to find them here . What the viewer will get is a feeling of well being and inner peace . The director seems to be teaching us a lesson in how anyone can achieve nirvana through self examination , meditation and doing good no matter to whom . Also , how cruelty , be it against a harmless animal , or a human being , will haunt those who transgress throughout life . The acting blends in with the serene beauty of the temple in the middle of the lake , as we watch one season following another , as seen by the amazing cinematography by Dong-hyeon Baek .
Closure	A family tragedy changed the lives of the Winters family . When we meet them , Jim , a landscape gardener , and his two children , Gabe and Pete , have not gotten over the death of the woman who held this family together . At this juncture of their lives , they appear resigned with what happened to them . The somewhat quiet family atmosphere is going to be suddenly changed . Jim , the father , who has not seen another woman since his wife's death , is suddenly awakened from his lethargy with the arrival of a well meaning woman who is house sitting for friends in the neighborhood . Molly is a fine listener ; she hears what Jim has to tell her , as he opens to recount the anguish , he and his children , have been living . Gabe , the older son , is seeing Stacey , a lovely young woman who loves him in return . It comes as a shock when Gabe informs his father and brother he is moving to Tampa . Jim's immediate reaction is to ask " What about Stacey " , to which he responds " I'm dealing with it " . Gabe wants to leave the oppressive home atmosphere to re-start his life in a new area . His brother Peter , who was with his mother when the accident happened , can't express his feelings ; he has kept his emotions bottled inside him . He is a bright young man , but does poorly in school , something one of his teachers , tries to get him to respond and participate in class . Josh Sternfeld created a sensitive and beautifully restrained film that shows that not all in life is rosy and that people suffer when tragedy strikes . The director , who also wrote the screen play , knows this family well . Not everything is gloom and doom because we realize , as we watch , things will improve , especially for Jim , who is attracted by a woman who clearly understands his situation . Anthony LaPaglia , who is also credited as one of the producers , shows he was the right actor to portray Jim Winters . This talented man doesn't make a false movement and stays true to his character all the time . Mr . LaPaglia , who worked with Allison Janney on Broadway in Arthur Miller's " A View From the Bridge " , is again reunited with his co-star and they feel right for one another . Ms . Janney's Molly , although not a showy role , gives her an opportunity to shine . Aaron Stanford is seen as the older son , Gabe , and Mark Webber is Peter . Both actors do a credible job under the sure direction of Mr . Sternfeld . Ron Livingston is the kind teacher who sees possibilities in Peter and Michele Monaghan is perfect as Stacey , the girl that is dumped without much logic , by Gabe . " Winter Solstice " was beautifully photographed by Harlan Bosmajian , who captures the world of suburbia in all its glory . The atmospheric music is by John Leventhal . Josh Sternfeld created an intimate portrait about pain and anguish , as this family
The girl in the flat	Carol Reed's " The Key " is a forgotten film , or so it seems . It was a rare occasion when it showed up the other night on TCM . This film presents a different side of WWII that many of us are not aware of . We are given an account of England's way of rescuing ships that have been attacked at sea and the courageous men that commanded those small vessels to bring the damaged ones to safe haven . The film is based on a novel by the Dutch writer Jan de Hartog , with a screen play by Carl Foreman . The film was photographed in white and white by Oswald Morris and has an interesting music score by Malcom Arnold . The film capitalizes on the rescue operations , which are reproduced in vivid detail by Mr . Reed and his crew . The ocean settings have a poetic look , at times . The story is set before America's entry into the war and we are introduced to David Ross , who is assigned to the rescuing team . Ross happens to know one of the captains in the operation , Chris Ford , who in turn , takes an interest in him and hands him a duplicate of the key to his flat . Little does Ross knows what awaits him there . Trevor Howard is excellent as Capt . Ford . This actor showed an inner integrity no matter what role he played . Sophia Loren is Stella , the mysterious girl who lives in the flat and seems to bring out emotions from all the men that share the apartment . At the same time , she seems to be a jinx to all the men that she comes in contact with . Ms . Loren gives a subtle performance . William Holden , is also effective as Capt . Ross . Bernard Lee , Oskar Homolka and Kieron Moore do excellent work under Mr . Reed's direction . " The Key " is an interesting look at the way the war was fought at sea and Mr . Reed makes a compelling account of those days .
Niagara Falls	Having watched an interesting documentary recently , " Dial H for Hitchcock " , it's clear to see how Jonathan Demme was influenced by the master himself . His admiration for the master is evident , yet , in spite of everything , Mr . Demme's " Last Embrace " was a surprise nonetheless . " Last Embrace " was one of his first films and it sort of showed the trajectory of Jonathan Demme as a film director would follow . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . When Harry Hannan's wife is tragically killed , his life begins to unravel . Harry spends some time in a sanatorium trying to get himself together . Unfortunately , whoever wanted him put away is still much in evidence as his presence is felt right at the station where Harry is trying to board the train back home to Manhattan . Harry is taken aback to find Ellie living in his apartment , something he had no idea was happening . It's only fitting with films of this genre that Harry will fall for the beautiful young woman who apparently seems to be trying to help him solve the puzzle about a cryptic death threat he has received at home . Harry with the help of Sam Urdell , starts investigating about the meaning of the strange message he got . Urdell's connection within the Jewish community also unravels another conspiracy that Harry knew nothing about . The final episode involves going through the tunnels where visitors must enter in order to see real close the Falls at Niagara . Even before that there's also a great scene involving Harry's former brother-in-law in a tower at Princeton , which kept reminding us of " Vertigo " . Roy Scheider makes an intense Harry . In fact , Mr . Scheider at the time this film was made , was at the height of his career and he clearly shows why he was an excellent actor . The beautiful Janet Margolin plays Ellie , a woman who is too good to be true when we first meet her , but we have no clue as to what she is capable of doing . The great Sam Levene is seen as Sam Urdell , who befriends Harry and is instrumental in getting to the bottom of this mystery . In supporting roles some familiar faces who went to do much better work later . Christopher Walken , Mandy Patinkin , Jacqueline Brookes , Marcia Rodd , Charles Napier , among others are seen in the film . Jonathan Demme proved he was a talent that would go to bigger and better things even then .
Fighting fascism	Lillian Hellman , one of America's most famous women playwrights , was a woman with a mission . Her leftist views were not well regarded at the time in the country . In her memoir , she recounts her trip to the then , Soviet Union , as she was intrigued with the so called successes achieved by that system . " Watch on the Rhine " must have come as a result of those years . The left wing in America , as all over the world had an issue with the rise of fascism , not only in Europe , but in Japan as well . " Watch on the Rhine " was a play produced on Broadway eight months before the Pearl Harbor attack by the Japanese . In it Ms . Hellman was heralding America's entrance in World War II . The adaptation is credited to Ms . Hellman and Dashiell Hammett , her long time companion . As directed for the screen by Herman Shumlin , the film was well received when it premiered in 1943 . We are introduced to the Muller family , when the film opens . They are crossing the border to the United States from Mexico . They are to continue toward Mrs . Muller's home in Washington , D . C . , where her mother , Fanny Farrelly , is a minor celebrity hostess . The Mullers , we realize are fleeing Europe because of the persecution there against the opponents of the advancing totalitarian regime in Germany . In fact , we thought , in a way , the Mullers could have been better justified if they were Jewish , fleeing from a sure extermination . We find out that Mr . Muller has had a terrible time in his native land , as well as in other places because his outspokenness in denouncing Fascim . Little does he know that he is coming to his mother-in-law's house that is housing one of the worst exponents of that philosophy . The film offers excellent acting all around . It is a curiosity piece because of Bette Davis ' supporting role . Paul Lukas , repeating his Broadway role , is quite convincing as Kurt Muller , the upright man that wants to make a better world for himself and his family . Mr . Lukas does a great job portraying Kurt Muller , repeating the role that made him a stage luminary on Broadway . The other best performance is by Lucile Watson , who plays Fanny Farrelly , the matriarch of this family . Geraldine Fitzgerald is seen as Marthe de Brancovis , a guest of the Farrellys , married to the contemptible Teck de Brancovis , a Nazi sympathizer , played by George Coulouris . Beulah Bondi , Donald Woods , and the rest of the supporting cast give good performances guided by Mr . Shumlin . The film should serve as a reminder about the evils of totalitarian rule , no matter where .
Marilyn in the subway	Billy Wilder did wonders with the funny George Axelrod play , in which " The Seven Year Itch " is based . Mr . Wilder was after all a man who knew movies , as he shows with his adaptation of the original material . In addition , Mr . Wilder had a talent for directing actors and getting the best out of them . This is a film that although most people haven't seen , they will always remember the picture of Marilyn Monroe standing above a subway vent with her skirt flying around her because of the sudden rush of a train below ! Ms . Monroe was shown in all her beauty to a camera that obviously adored her . This film and " Some Like it Hot " , also directed by the great Billy Wilder , gave Marilyn Monroe's admirers a glorious view of the actress at her best . Tom Ewell , is equally excellent as the summer bachelor , Richard Sherman , left alone in Manhattan to fend for himself . Mr . Ewell's opening scenes are amazing in playing out his fantasies . His interplay with the gorgeous Marilyn Monroe shows a timing hard to match by many comedians . Mr . Ewell gives a delightful performance . This is a delightful comedy . All the right elements are well balanced to produce the intended results . Best of all is the incomparable Marilyn Monroe in one of her best screen appearances guided by Billy Wilder .
An image to uphold !	The tremendously talented Agnes Jaoui , the director of " Look at Me " , is a talented actress as well . The screen play is a collaboration with the principal actor in the film , Jean Pierre Bacri . The film's translation would have been better as " Like an Image " , rather than the one it got . This is a film about disorientation and alienation between an impressionable young woman and her self centered father . Young Lolita is a talented girl . She had tried to be an actress and now , as the film begins she is taking singing lessons . Her voice , indeed , is a powerful and beautiful instrument . Her music teacher , the kind Sylvia , has too much to do with all her students to pay particular attention to this plump , but pretty , girl until she hears about Lolita being the daughter of the influential Etienne Cassard . The problem with Etienne is that he has married a younger woman who apparently loves him , but Karine has definite ideas about what is to have BCBG ( bon chic , bon genre ) among her circle . She's horrified to let her daughter have ice cream ! Horreur ! A chubby daughter , mais non ! It is clear that Etienne couldn't care less for what happens to his older daughter , at the moment she most needs him . In a way , the image of the title is something this bourgeois man wants to maintain . He is one of the shallowest men in recent French movies ! When at the end , during Lolita's triumphal recital , Etienne runs away from the church where the concert is being held , he does the ultimate coward act of his life ; in a way he betrays the daughter who loves him and is trying to show she is worthy of his love . The film is well written , but the problem is that some of the characters appear to be one dimensional people . There is no warmth whatsoever between anyone with the exception of the love that grows between Lolita and Sebastien , the young man that loves her in silence . The lovely Marilou Berry makes a fabulous appearance . She is the only one in the film that gets our attention and compassion . Agnes Jaoui , is also the other one in the film that elicits our sympathy . Ms . Jaoui's Sylvia shows a complex woman turned off by all the shallowness around her , including her own husband Pierre . Jean Pierre Bacri , another excellent actor is given the terrible task to portray the horrible Etienne . The rest of the cast is good under Ms . Jaoui's direction . This is a film that feels cold from beginning to end . That said , " Look at Me " offers us a good character study of the people that move in the literary circles , not only of France , but all over . No doubt the talented Ms . Jaoui's next time out will be even better !
Day of atonement	This first time director , Ed Solomon , makes an incredible change over from writing films for the masses , by writing and directing this introspective and moody look into the troubled souls of the fallen . I just caught up to it on cable . At any rate , it was well worth watching . This is an Indie that makes a statement without punching us in the head with it . Manuel , the lifer that is released at the beginning of the film , ends up looking for a connection with the family of the convenient store clerk he shot and killed during his wild youth . Now , Manuel is older and wiser and knows that he has been spared from the mean streets . It doesn't seem logical for him to do so , but in a way , is his way to express his sorrow at the horror he caused by being reckless . The encounter with Adele , and her acceptance of this odd man is a bit hard to understand . This woman reacts with caution at first , but realizes Manuel is harmless ; thus begins the friendship between them , without a hint of the actual identity of Manuel . The thing that didn't make sense is the presence of Sofia , a child of privilege in the seedy club that is near the soup kitchen that Miles , another mysterious character runs . Once we overcome those hurdles , it is easy to see where the director is taking us . Billy Bob Thornton plays Manuel as a man on auto pilot . The world he encounters when he is released is a world so different from what he knew . Mr . Thornton gives another phenomenal performance . Holly Hunter makes an understated Adele . She approaches the character with an economy that is amazing , yet we know at all times what this woman is feeling . Although Sofia , the young woman appears to be confused and out of place , Kirsten Dunst is quite effective as she plays her . The only one that does not convince us is Miles , perhaps because of Morgan Freeman's approach to this man . Dorian Harewood has a small , but intense moment in the story .
An actor's life	Werner Herzog's brilliant documentary about his friend Klaus Kinski gives us an insight into the troubled life of this great actor who gave his all to whatever films he elected to appear in . Mr . Herzog offers a different account on Mr . Kinski , who could be infuriating in his egomania , which seems to be at the center of the story . However , one only sees glimpses of the man who could be charming and who could be generous to his fellow actors . Having met Mr . Kinski on two occasions , we only saw a charismatic man in a relaxed atmosphere . It appears the pressures of making a film propelled the actor into a frenzy that comes out clearly in what Mr . Herzog is showing us in the documentary . Mr . Kinski was probably his own worst enemy because his sense of pride in the role he was portraying took the best out of him . Therefore the hysterics and the fights with his director and the crew , notably the aggression on Justo Gonzalez's head , while playing a violent scene that could have killed him . On the other hand we catch some of the soft side of the actor as we hear a loving account by Eva Mattes , who played with Mr . Kinski in " Woyzek " . Also Claudia Cardinale shares some vivid memories with the director as she recounts her experience with Mr . Kinski while filming " Fitzcarraldo " . The film is an important document , as it illustrates the spirit of a man that was unique in his own madness . Mr . Herzog's shows clearly this actor was a man possessed whenever he played a role in front of a camera . Because of the document we feel enlightened somewhat in having known the man that gave movie fans his best and more .
Breakdown	Hollywood in the forties was not exactly ready to deal with serious subjects such as the one depicted in " The Snake Pit " . It must have taken a lot of courage to get this project started since it dealt with a serious problem of mental illness , something not mentioned in good company , let alone in a film that took the viewer into the despair the protagonist is experiencing . Anatole Litvak , the director , got a tremendous performance from its star Olivia de Havilland . If there was anyone to portrait Virginia Stuart Cunningham , Ms . de Havilland was the right choice for it . The actress is the main reason for watching the movie , even after all these years . The director was responsible for the realistic way in which this drama plays on screen . The scenes in the asylum are heart wrenching , especially the electro shock treatments Virginia undergoes . At the end , the kind Dr . Kik discovers a deeply rooted problem in Virginia's mind that was the cause for what she was experiencing . Leo Genn is the other notable presence in the film playing Dr . Kik . He makes the best out of his role and plays well against the sickly woman he has taken an interest in helping . Mark Stevens is seen as Virginia's husband , the man that stood by his wife all the time . In smaller roles we see Lee Patrick , Natalie Schafer , Leif Erickson and Celeste Holm . " The Snake Pit " is a document about mental illness treated with frankness by Anatole Litvak and his team .
Long live menopause !	Anita , the central character of Ventura Pons ' film is fighter . When her job is eliminated , she continues to go to the place she once knew and was a part of . As interpreted by the magnificent Rosa Maria Sarda , she has a lot going for her , even if at the beginning , she doesn't see herself as a winner . Her interaction with her neighbor , the worldly Natalia , proves a step in the right direction in gaining her lost confidence and in doing so , discovering she's a winner in her own right . As directed by Ventura Pons , the catalan director , Anita is a winner . The film is entertaining and light after the last films from this director where he has tackled other , more difficult themes . The Anita of Ms Sarda is full of doubts since most of her bad luck comes at a point in her life where she's settled into a very quiet and peaceful life . She is like another female heroine , Cabiria , a real survivor once she gains her strength and finally is able to cope with the situation life has given her . Jose Coronado is very effective as Antoni , the new love interest in Anita's life , as is Ms . Barranco , who plays Natalia . Very enjoyable and pleasant experience .
History repeats itself	This film opened in this country recently , right after another prison massacre in Brazil , where inmates were killed after they rioted . Hector Babenco's film is a sad commentary on society's failure to turn these criminals in jail , into law abiding citizens . If anything , this film could be a vivid reminder to law breaking people about what they can expect when they have to pay their debt and must serve time under conditions such as the one we see in Carandiru prison . Add to that the horrible conditions of jails in certain parts of the world . Any would be criminal should think twice about the consequence of their actions . Landing in a penal institution is a hellish experience , at best . How can lawmakers of the world think that a criminal mind will be changed by sending them to places such as Carandiru ? If anything , placing these criminals with other criminals in such conditions will perpetuate crime and if the prisoner survives the term , he will be scarred for life . Not having read the book in which this film is based , it is only fair to say that Mr . Babenco , an excellent director , has given us a realistic film about what hell must be like .
Farewell Suite	It's in a way fitting , that Ingmar Bergman , one of the cinema's best directors , to choose to depart in this fashion , by expanding on an early work , which was by all accounts fully realized , or so we thought . In " Sarabande " we are reunited with Johan and Marianne , the protagonists of " Scenes from a Marriage " . Mr . Bergman seems to have composed a suite in which the Sarabande movement , which is usually introspective and dark , gives the tone to his account in this new work . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you should stop reading now . When we last saw Johan and Marianne they gave the impression their relationship was over . We get to know in " Sarabande " that yes , it really happened , but that a lot of years have passed between the lovers without any actual contact between them . Usually , when intense love affairs end , both partners stay away from one another . It comes as a surprise that Marianne will even try to see Johan after all the intervening years . When we first meet Johan , he appears to be much older than what he really is . Time has not been kind to him , or so it appears . Marianne , on the other hand is still an interesting woman , who of course , is much younger , but the contrast heightens what appears to be a gulf now between them . Things are complicated with the introduction of Henrik , Johan's own son , who has moved to a cottage in the property , where he is living with his daughter Karin . Henrik's wife has died , but her picture seems to dominate their lives . In fact , there is something incestuous in the relationship between Henryk and Karin . We watch them in bed , although there's nothing improper about it , but we start to get a different image of what really is going on in the cottage . At one point Karin kisses her father in a way that it confirms the love-hate emotions within Karin's heart . She is trying to break away from this situation in whatever way she can . In a way we realize that Johan , who seems to hate Henrik , perceives what is going on , but he doesn't have the strength to confront this sad man that is his son . Maryanne , stays away from the feud going on between father and son . It's clear she feels deeply for Karin , a girl that has gained her trust , but there she feels nothing for Henrik . The acting is first rate , as in most of Mr . Bergman's films . He has the uncanny gift to get great performances from his cast , as it's the case with " Saraband " . Liv Ullmann and Erland Josephson are perfect as the one time lovers Marianne and Johan . Borje Ahlstedt makes an unappealing and tormented Henrik . The luminous Julia Dufvenius is marvelous as Karin , the young woman , basically at the center of the story . This is a great coda for Mr . Bergman . He leaves us with an emotional charged film that will be treasured by all his fans .
Touched by an angel	Dudley , the angel , comes to earth to teach a thing or two to the people of this town , or so it seems . He touches everyone he encounters in a positive way . The message is how we humans get so involved in things that are so unimportant that we miss the big picture . This film , directed by Henry Koster , is a classic . In fact , I am surprised it doesn't play more during Christmas , or maybe I have missed seeing it around that time of the year that is the setting for the angel's appearance . It seems as though Dudley is pointing to the arrival of Christmas at a time , perhaps , when the season had still a non-commercial aspect and it was , after all , a family affair . The cast was exceptional . Cary Grant is Dudley , the man / angel who turns everything he touches into a lesson on how to be kind . Julia , the bishop's wife , plays the neglected woman with conviction . David Niven plays the preoccupied bishop who is trying to bring the moneyed people of town to his side in order to erect his monument to his own ego . Gladys Cooper is also a distinguished face in the film . She is Mrs . Hamilton who learns a thing or two about humility . Elsa Lanchester was a happy figure in whatever film she appeared . Monty Woolley , as the professor is also effective . James Gleason was one of the most prolific character actors of his generation . He is excellent as Sylvester , the taxi driver who befriends Julia and Dudley . Their ice skating sequence is one of the best things of the film . This is a film to treasure .
A crazy genius	Ron Howard has given us a film that's so different from the formula-oriented fare we receive from Hollywood , that this film , although studio born and bred , plays very much as an independent film . The madness of John Nash is approached by the director , and the writer , Akiva Goldsman , with great honesty and restraint . The production has a look that tells us we are seeing the events in the life of this crazy mathematician as it really happened . Nothing seems to be out of place here with the right touch of atmospheric detail in showing the past , when Mr . Nash went from being an up and coming star in Princeton to his being selected for the Nobel prize in 1994 , with enough time going into the schizophrenia that almost ruined his academic life , as well as his own marriage . Russell Crowe plays this tormented soul with utter understanding of the man he is portraying . At no time does he strike a false note or gets too carried away with his own acting . That shows a firm hand by Mr . Howard , whose command seems to be behind every shot of this film . Ed Harris is one of the best actors around and let no one tell you otherwise . He expresses so much with the simplest gestures any actor can make . His kind of acting is seamless from film to film . Here he gives a great and understated performance as the man in John Nash's nightmares and make-believe world . The biggest surprise though , is Jennifer Connelly . She demonstrates here as well as in previous work , mainly her previous work in Requiem of a Dream , that she is in a league of her own . She's that rare breed of actresses that go from film to film acting in roles that she disappears into without any fanfare or hype . Congratulations to Mr . Howard for this film .
Bravo !	This is a very intimate and enjoyable film . It shows every day characters in their own surroundings interacting in a manner that is very naturalistic and true . Director Lone Scherfig has directed with a sure hand and the situation is believable . The ensemble cast plays well , as it is with the majority of the Dogme95 films . At times , they make us forget that we are watching a film , as it struck me , that I was just intruding in the life of a bunch of people in that town in Denmark . What is amazing is that the film doesn't become an Italian travelogue as it would have been the case had this story been done by a non-Scandinavian director with pressures from studio heads . It has the right amount ingredients and it makes a delicious minestrone for all to enjoy . Bravi a tutti !
Will sell my soul for a good book .	Despite the lukewarm reception by the local and national media for this film , I found myself enjoying this rehash of Faust , tremendously . It's a very old theme , but in here it is told very stylishly and with a lot of panache by director George Hickenlooper based on the screenplay written by Phillip Jayson Lasker . At the outset , I must say that I'm not the greatest fan of Andy Garcia , but I have to confess that in this film he does probably his best work , despite of other praised roles in the past . His Byron Tiller is a loser . We sense it the moment we see him in Rizzoli trying to recommend his book to an indecisive customer . His curiosity trying to find out what his office neighbor , Luther Fox , is up to , proves to be his eventual downfall . At home life seems very normal with Dena , his wife , and son . Being broke makes him accept an offer he should have turned down from the very beginning . The encounter with the Allcotts , Tobias , a best selling author at the end of his life , and Andrea , his wife will be fatal . Are we to believe this was a chance encounter , or was it planned before hand ? Ultimately the viewer will have to arrive to his own conclusions . All the acting is first rate . Andy Garcia is very effective . So is the rest of the cast , but Mick Jagger is superb portraying this lizard kind of a man who deals with very special situations and needs . Also notable , Olivia Williams , as the ice queen that doesn't even take off her undergarments for a tumble in the hay . James Coburn is a sly fox who knows what he's doing from the very beginning . Julianna Margulies is the only one that has very little to do as the suffering wife . The film has a glossy and sophisticated look . Viewing it will be satisfying because basically it's a good story well paced and acted .
The burden of proof	The superb adaptation of Agatha Christie's play is evident in this movie of 1957 , which , by the way , it's still interesting to watch today , as it must was in the theater . The film was greatly helped by the direction of Billy Wilder who was able to achieve great performances all around from his cast . Of course , this film belongs to Charles Laughton's brilliant performance as the barrister , Sir Wilfred Robarts . Mr . Laughton's genius was evident in his body of work , but with this role , he excels . Charles Laughton was one of the best actors of his generation . This courtroom drama packs a lot of surprises . One of the most pleasant ones was Marlene Dietrich . She played the German wife of the man accused of killing the widow he seduced for ulterior motives . Ms . Dietrich who was one of the coolest actresses of her era , shows a range not seen before . Her character is seen at different times of her life and she is totally convincing to be that person . The weakest link in the film is Tyrone Power . This actor was getting over a heart attack and he shows that illness had not been kind to him . His interpretation of Leonard Vole is a puzzle , at best . He is supposed to be an Englishman , but his American accent was something the director , or the studio didn't care much since Tyrone Power was one of the greatest stars in the business . His portrayal of the accused man robs the film of authenticity . This role should have been played by a British actor . The incomparable Elsa Lanchester makes an appearance as Sir Wilfred's nurse , a role that was not in the original play . Ms . Lanchester was an wonderful actress who could steal films from leading stars . In this film she is fabulous as the meddlesome nurse who wants the best for her patient . Also good in the film , Una O'Connor as the maid , Janet McKenzie who can smell a rat when she sees one . Norma Varden as the widow , Emily French was delightful . The English cast is excellent .
Citizen Kane	High Noon is one of the most loved films of all times thanks to the elements that came together to make it the classic that it is . The movie owes a lot to Fred Zinnemann for his tight account of this story by Carl Foreman . The film benefits from Dimitri Tiomkin's great score and the great cinematography by Floyd Crosby . This is a film that packs a lot of symbolism because of the times when it was done . Those were the days of the communist hysteria where many people in the industry were accused , tried and lost jobs because when they faced the HUAC and Senator Joseph McCarthy . Gary Cooper plays a man who is decent enough to return to the town where he just has gotten married and has finished his tour of duty . His conscience doesn't let him leave his post as he delays his plans and goes back to defend the town from the bandit who's been freed by Northern judges , and is coming back to seek revenge from Marshal Kane and the town . Gary Cooper embodied the all Amercian hero . He was an actor who could do no wrong , as he proves in his take of Marshal Kane . We see him as the clock is ticking away toward noon time when the train will arrive in Hadleyville . We see him perspire as he goes around trying to get people help him deal with the problem , to no avail ; he will have to do it himself . In the process , he clearly disappoints his new bride , who is horrified at the prospect of losing the man she clearly loves . Grace Kelly was such an elegant figure that it's hard to imagine she would be in Hadleyville at all ! Katy Jurado was also excellent as the jaded Helen Ramirez , the woman who owned a lot of businesses in town . Also effective , Thomas Mitchell , as the mayor of the town and Lloyd Bridges , as Harvey . This is a film to treasure .
Nothing to do with the original novel	I can now understand why authors feel leery about letting screenwriters adapt a novel . First of all , a full length novel doesn't translate well to the screen . There are too many nuances and too many details , that trying to do them all , will humble the most talented scribe . Take the case of the novel in which this film is based . The Tree of Hands by the magnificent British master of suspense , Ruth Rendell . The adaptation has nothing to do with the brilliant narrative she gave us with this novel . If anyone wants to see the best adaptation of a Rendell book , I would recommend to see Claude Chabrol's , " La Ceremonie " . Not only was that a superior film , but it reveals the essence of the book with little effort . The problem with " Alias Betty " is Mr Miller's scenario . He has changed the basic premise of the book into something else . Now , don't get me wrong , it is a better film than some of the mediocrity coming from France lately . The big problem is with the character of the mother . Nicole Garcia is out of her range here . Not only that , one never understands what's wrong with her , even though she appears to be schizophrenic . She's a loose cannon up to no good . In the novel she's even more so . Betty is ambiguously played by Sandrine Kiberlain , which in a way , suits the character better . She is the only sane person around , even though she is unable to control the mother . The minor side plots add to the story , but everything at the end is resolved so easily that one wonders if anything like that is possible in life . The films end in an upbeat note , even though it has nothing to do with the original novel .
Airline food at the mall	We went to see the film without any preconceptions and frankly , once we accepted the impossibility of this situation , we fell right under its spell . Yes , it's a bit long , yet it kept our attention until the end . I have no idea who pitched this tale to Mr . Spielberg . Evidently , the story is a far cry from reality to people like Viktor , in the situation he encounters upon arriving in New York . Viktor would have been held by the Immigration authorities , then processed , and sent to a detention center to wait for his appointment to see a judge , who ultimately would have decided his fate . No one in this situation would have been allowed to stay unguarded in the terminal , as in the case of this stateless man . Then again , we wouldn't have had a film , at all . The screen play twists the facts to adapt the story for a Tom Hanks vehicle . At the beginning it takes a while to adjust to Tom Hanks supposedly Russian accent . The inner life of the terminal is brought to life by the people that play minor roles in the movie . Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg make a great team . The director and its star compliment one another . Mr . Hanks is delightful as this man who , through no fault of his own , is stuck by the red tape encountered at his arrival in this country , at the present time . Catherine Zeta Jones ' flight attendant is a fake . Ms Zeta Jones makes us like her , in spite of knowing she is as deep as a Danielle Steele novel . When this woman selects a Napoleon biography from the book store , many people laughed knowing a flight attendant and Napoleon are the equivalent of olive oil and balsamic vinegar . Stanley Tucci , Diego Luna , Kumar Pallana , add a comic relief to the film . The only remaining question is whether all the brands that are prominently displayed in the terminal , ( this could have easily been a shopping mall ) , paid the film makers to have their brands displayed in the film .
Foggy nights in London's Thornton Square	Patrick Hamilton's " Angel Street " , an American stage classic , was turned into " Gaslight " in 1944 . This atmospheric account about a woman being driven out of her mind , was directed by George Cukor . The film has always been a favorite of classic movie fans all over the world because it holds the viewer interested in watching the psychological drama with echoes of Gothic overtones , unfold on the screen . This was not the first adaptation of Mr . Hamilton's play , although in our humble opinion , it is much better than the previous account , in part helped by the great cast that Mr . Cukor assembled to portray these characters . Thanks to the magnificent black and white cinematography by Joseph Ruttengerg and the musical score by Bronislau Kaper , the film ultimately rewards the viewer . We are taken to No . 9 Thornton Square , at the start of the film . A murder of a famous opera singer has been committed . We watch as a young woman is taken away . Paula , is being sent away to Italy to recuperate from the tragedy she has just witnessed . The idea was for her to follow her aunt , the murdered diva's footsteps , but just listening to the young woman sing , one realizes opera is not going to gain a new star . The young pianist , Greorgy Anton , who is seen at Maestro Gardi's home , seems to be in love with Paula ; she , in turn , has fallen in love with this much older figure . They prepare to return to London and live in the house at Thornton Square . Paula , alas , is not too happy because of her traumatic experience there . Little by little we watch as Gregory , now in charge of the household , begins to terrorize his wife . The key seems to be hidden in the attic where all the things that belonged to the late diva has been stored . A young man living near the Antons , Brian Cameron , takes an interest in what he sees is definitively wrong with the woman at No . 9 , and takes things into his own hands . It's through this man's intervention that Paula is able to see all that has been inflicted upon her . Whatever Gregory has done , succeeded in giving Paula a deep sense of insecurity and fear . Ingrid Bergman , who makes a magnificent Paula , was born to play this troubled woman . She is seen as a young girl at the beginning of the film , then as a blossoming beautiful woman and at the end she is transformed into a person afraid of her own shadow . One look into Ms . Bergman's eyes and we know what's going on in her mind . She conveys all the emotions convincingly . There's not a thing wrong with her performance . Charles Boyer also makes a great Gregory Anton , a man who is duplicitous and sly , with a hidden agenda to get whatever he can out of poor Paula . Gregory is an evil man who will go to great lengths to get what he wants . Gregory Anton offered the actor one of his best characters . His chemistry with Ms . Bergman is wonderful . The other supporting characters are well performed , especially by a young and interesting Angela Lansbury , who plays the parlor maid , Nancy . Joseph Cotten , on the other hand , seems to be out of character as Brian Cameron . His American accent ruins his appearance and we don't believe in him . Dame May Witty is about the sunniest one in this film . " Gaslight " is an excellent way to spend the time in the company of Ingrid Bergman and Charles Boyer , thanks to the detailed production directed by George Cukor .
The genius of John Huston on display !	John Huston was a remarkable man who was an excellent director , as well as a superb adapter of other people's materials , as he clearly shows in " Key Largo " . This movie , based on Maxwell Anderson's play , is a triumph for Mr . Huston , who co-wrote the adaptation with Richard Brooks , another man who would go on to direct his own movies . Mr . Huston had an uncanny way to get the best people in the business in his projects . Karl Freund's black and white cinematography is wonderful , as is the haunting music provided by Max Steiner , a man who was a genius in his own right for always giving that special touch to the scores he was hired to do . " Key Largo " has been compared with " The Desperate Hours " , in which Humphrey Bogart also appeared . In fact , both were theatrical plays , and perhaps that's the basis of the comparison . As much as Mr . Huston tried to open " Key Largo " , it still has a certain feeling of the drama one would get in a stage production . This is a film that has Humphrey Bogart playing a good guy , Frank McCloud , not his usual bad guy from other movies . Also , we see a rather quiet Lauren Bacall as Nora Temple ; in her other films with Mr . Bogart she played more sultrier roles . Edgar G . Robinson is perfect as the crooked Johnny Rocco , the gangster that has decided to take over the Largo Hotel to do his business . In a great performance , Mr . Robinson shows an ugly side . Claire Trevor plays a gangster moll Gaye Dawn and has a great opportunity . Also Lionel Barrymore , Thomas Gomez and Harry Lewis are seen in supporting roles . " Key Largo " will not disappoint because it shows a tense situation in which at the beginning seems a hopeless cause , but the hurricane will change things around and justice and sanity will prevail .
The observer is observed !	This film was a surprise since we went without any preconceptions , having avoided reading about it beforehand . It is a droll attempt at film making by Bent Hamer , the director , who collaborated on the scenario . The film presents a story that on its surface seems to be one thing , but deep inside there is an ode to friendship between two different , but stoic Scandinavian men , Isak and Folke , whose lives become entwined as they discover how they are similar , despite of all appearances . The story is set in the bleak and snowy Norwegian winter . In the end , Folke is a better man by having known Isak , the man who he doesn't understand at the beginning of the story , but who unknown to him , was always looking over him , without the other one knowing it . The three principals are very well portrayed . This film will resonate with people that find themselves alone at the last stages of their lives , and how they are changed by opening up to perfect strangers who are going through the same thing themselves .
Honeymoon in Rome	This was Fellini's directorial debut , although he had been involved in the Italian cinema for quite some time as a writer , mainly . " The White Sheik " heralded the great things that Fellini had in store for all his admirers . It is also the debut of a character that will come to life later on , Cabiria , the prostitute with the heart of gold , the eternal optimist , whose story will be told a few years later in full length . Fellini was indeed inspired for this picture . He was lucky in finding collaborators of the stature of Tullio Pinelli , who will be linked to Mr . Fellini in many other projects , Michelangelo Antonionni , himself a distinguished director , and Ennio Flaiano . The music of Nino Rota adds another layer to this film with its tuneful score . Arturo Gallea's wonderful black and white photography looks as though it was just shot , with its crisp details of that Rome of the early 1950s in all its splendor . Ivan Cavalli , an older man has married the beautiful , and younger , Wanda . They come from a small town and their honeymoon is to be spent in Rome , taking the sights and visiting his well connected relatives . The arrival at the train station captures the chaos and confusion that looks pretty much the same today . The prim Ivan is taken aback when the clerk at the Tre Fiori hotel shouts to take the couple to the " honeymoon suite " on the third floor . Wanda , who is much younger , has something else in mind . She , like a lot of women of that era in Italy , loved the romance stories that were beautifully photographed and which had its followers who adored figures like Fernando Rivoli , the hunk male star of those soap opera paperbacks . Wanda , has been corresponding with the office that handles the production of those penny romances , goes to meet her idol . Wanda , a naive woman , is an instant hit with the woman who writes some of the stories , who tells her Fernando is downstairs waiting for her . Well , that's the beginning for Wanda's fling with celebrity . In the meantime , Ivan awakens to a flooded room because Wanda forgot to turn off the water in the bath tub . Little does he know , but his punctual uncle and his family await the newlyweds downstairs , but Wanda is missing . What to do ? Ivan does everything to excuse his absent bride to the uncle , telling them she feels too sick to go with them . Ivan decides to go along with the relatives not knowing what else to do . The visit to the Pope , a highlight of the trip , has to be postponed . Wanda finds herself on a beach location where some of the White Sheik's photography is to be shot . She makes quite an impression with her idol , who sees in the naive woman an easy prey . Little prepares him for the way everything will turn against him as his jealous wife arrives to the shoot . Wanda , has to find her own way to Rome in the company of a beach goer who sees in Wanda the same thing Rivoli saw : sex ! Leopoldo Trieste , who plays Ivan Cavalli , was the perfect man to play this fastidious man . Mr . Trieste runs away with the picture . The only concern for this stuffy man is his honor . The mere idea of having his good name sullied by Wanda simply is too much for him ; it horrifies him . Mr . Trieste , one of the best film actors in Italian cinema makes a wonderful Ivan . Brunella Bovo appears as Wanda , the young bride . Ms . Bovo is also marvelous in the film . She is a romantic woman who probably is married to Ivan to please her parents . Ivan is the opposite of her idea of what those heroes of the romance novels she adores , must look like . Wanda is horrified when she realizes what her idol Rivoli expects from her . Fellini and his team were blessed in casting Alberto Sordi as Rivoli . This actor was at an excellent moment in his film career . His larger than life persona dazzles Wanda , but he is like some other handsome hunks that are used to easy females who he lures to bed by telling them what they want to hear . The ensemble cast is also excellent . Enzo Maggio , a notable character actor , plays the hotel concierge who is more interested in pushing post cards than giving service . Lilia Landi is Felga , one of the models posing for the novels . Ettore Maria Margadonna is seen as the well connected uncle . Giulietta Masina appears toward the end of the film as Cabiria who is walking the streets where she meets the distraught Ivan and comforts him . This delicious film is a must see for all fans of that genius that was Federico Fellini .
A dangerous passion	If there was anyone at all to take this story to the screen , Werner Herzog , the distinguished German director , would have been our first choice . Mr . Herzog , a man who knew madness first hand , as his association to Klaus Kinsky proved , is a man that could make this documentary work in the way it does . We follow an obsessed man , Tim Treadwell , whose love for the grizzly bears consumed him . Mr . Treadwell's own life , away from that setting , was nothing to speak of , but let him loose in the Alaska wilderness and he became a figure as large , as the bears he loved and cared for so much . Tim's passion for the grizzlies took him to appoint himself as the savior of the animals . This was a man that didn't pay attention to the dangers around him , because as all consumed individuals in search of greatness for achieving something , he lost track of what was real and what wasn't . Tim even gets his girlfriend Amie Huguenard involved in his quest for protecting the bears . At the same time , Mr . Treadwell is seen also with the foxes of the area , who didn't pose the same danger as the great brown bears . What Mr . Herzog has achieved is to show us the man in the mission he set out for himself , expanding in the material Mr . Treadwell had amassed on his own . The director shows us breathtaking views of Alaska , as probably never has been shown before . The cinematography takes our breath away . The Katmai National Park has never been seen in its glorious splendor before . " Grizzly Bear " , like " The March of the Penguins " , currently playing in local cinemas , is a welcome diversion from the typical summer Hollywood fare of films that are big on special effects that don't add anything to our enjoyment because the adhere to the same tired old formula .
Jean and Michele	This atmospheric film , directed by Marcel Carne , presents a case for the poetic realism , a style that was prevalent in the French cinema of that era . Carne and his collaborator , Jacques Prevert , adapted the Pierre Dumarchais novel for the screen giving it a powerful visual style that reflected the way most French film makers embraced for the stories they loved to give their audiences . Mr . Carne was blessed when he selected Eugene Schuffan as his cinematographer , who did wonders with the way he photographed the story . Maurice Jaubert's musical score also is effective in setting the mood . The story centers around Jean , a deserter from the army who is hitchhiking north , hoping to get on a ship overseas out of Le Havre . He is almost killed by the truck driver who stops suddenly in order not to harm him . After that , he offers Jean a ride to the port , but Jean infuriates his rescuer when he overtakes the control of the truck to avoid killing a dog . This action nets him with a true and loyal friend , who obviously is grateful and adores his master . Jean is saved from the police by the drunk Vittel as he is walking on a street near the night club . Inside , Luicen , a local effeminate criminal , Lucien , is trying to scare old Zabel , a shop owner . Vittel asks Jean to go with him to Panama's place , outside the town , by the water . Panama , a kind man with a past , seizes Jean's situation and offers him badly needed food and shelter . It is while he is eating that Jean spots Nelly , a gorgeous young woman who appears either to be a prostitute , or someone awaiting for a rendezvous . Lucien pays Panama a visit , but Panama repels the intrusion . Nelly and Jean leave together the following morning toward the town . It's clear both like each other . Nelly , who goes back to Zabel's shop , finds the older man repulsive , but it appears that not having any other means of support she must stay in the present situation . Jean doesn't have any idea of what's going on . At the night club the following night , Lucien is rough with Nelly , but Jean slaps him back provoking tears in the tough guy . Jean , who has found a possibility to get aboard a ship leaving for Venezuela , is surprised when Panama gives him clothing used by a painter he had met the night before . He seems to be on his way out , but Lucien and his gang have another idea for Jean . The film clearly solidified Jean Gabin's total domination of the French cinema , bypassing the popular Charles Boyer . Mr . Gabin is always a joy to watch in any of his movies . It's easy to see why he was one of France's most beloved figures of the cinema because he was always true to the character he was portraying and he convinces us he is no one but that person in that situation . Michele Morgan , who plays Nelly , one of the great beauties of all time , brings life to this young woman in the story . Her chemistry with Jean Gabin is easy to see . Michel Simon , another great actor from France , is seen as Zabel , a man that loves the young woman , knowing he doesn't stand a chance to get her . Pierre Brasseur is the fiendish Lucien . Eduard Delmont appears as Panama and Raymond Aimos is Vittel . This film showed Mr . Carne at his best . The film is recommended for lovers of the classic French cinema .
Return to Foulla	Michael Powell returns to the island of Fulla , in the Shetlands , the setting for his magnificent " The Edge of the World " . Mr . Powell is accompanied by a few of the members of the original crew that lived in that remote part of the world in 1936 , when the shooting took place . This is a documentary about how things looked forty-two years later . Mr . Powell , who appeared as the tourist in the yacht , in the original film , has fond memories for those challenging days spent there . John Laurie , who played Peter Manson in the original film is also on hand to share his own memories of what appears was a magical time for all the people connected with the film . Unfortunately , only six of the original inhabitants from 1936 were still around to tell us how they were all changed by the experience . Also appearing in the documentary is Grant Sutherland , who played the pastor in the film . This is a melancholy trip to a world that had vanished , but that was etched in the memory of all of those who participated in Michael Powell's adventure .
Socialized medicine	Denys Arcand , the great Canadian director keeps his fans awaiting for a new film impatiently . He is not as prolific as one would like him to be . It is a shame that he doesn't venture into a new movie more often , as the cinema , especially Canadian cinema , suffers from his absence . The Barbarian Invasions is a work that must have taken its toll on the director , as he has so much to say , and probably could have made another film about more of the same subject . It's a commentary on the state of medicine in the neighbor country . Judging by the full-to-the - brim hospital in Montreal , one wonders where did socialized medicine go wrong , as in principle it was supposed to be a blessing to everybody . Mr . Arcand also points out to the evils of the unions interfering in how hospitals are run . The director is not very kind in his observations , but he is absolutely right . Remy , seen now as a patient in the hospital , soon is surrounded by family and friends in a lovely embrace as they all know it will be a matter of time for him to die . They have all come because of loyalty and because they don't seem to want to let him go without telling him how much they all loved him . The son , who has fled the coop and has gone to bigger and better things is summoned to come back to be at his side , as the long suffering wife , can't cope with the illness . Father and son find a way to bond after they realize the love they have for one another and how Remy has failed Sebastien . The ensemble acting is very good . Remy Gerard and Stephane Rousseau must be mentioned as having the most impact as the dying father and prodigal son . This film is very positive in its comment about dying with dignity away from the horrors of a science that has failed both patient and society .
Music of the heart	The excellent film " The Choir " takes us back to a France of the past where the director Christophe Barratier and Philippe Lopes-Curval place their story about a school for problem children . In a way , we have seen similar situations where a good teacher is the catalyst for turning around a group of unruly students into good and productive young men and women . Mathieu Clement , is such a man . His kindness toward the children is returned to him by the students , as they respond to the way he teaches music to motivate and interest them . M . Clement has a keen sense of how to deal with the students ; instead of the hard line approach the principal , Rachin , insists in dealing with them , he has other ways to make them change . The music created by the film director , M . Barratier , and Bruno Coulais , gives the film the right tone . We also hear a song by Rameau , " La Nuit " , which is sung with such sweetness that it disarms us and get us into the right mood for enjoying " The Choir " even more . The film owes a great deal to Gerard Jugnot , who plays the kind teacher who sees possibilities among all these kids . His take on Mathiew Clement is the right one , because the children see in him someone that is the opposite of the other teachers and the mean principal . As the director of the school , Francois Berleand does a good job in portraying this egotistical man who can't see what his own cruelty is doing to the young people in his charge . The children are as sweet as one expects them to be . Especially Jean Baptiste Maunier , who plays the young Pierre Morhange . Also an angelic Maxence Perrin enchants the viewer as the young orphan Pepinot . Marie Bunel plays Pierre's mother well . This film is music to the ears of viewers , young and old .
Strange behavior	Manhattan is a mecca for the lonely . Nowhere in the world can people survive for years without the need of communicating with other people . Some of them have absolutely no life , or in the case of these five characters in this fantastic documentary , these are people who put all their energy into escaping from the real world . Their refuge is the many film theaters of Manhattan that show non commercial programs such as the ones that attract them . How much can they absorb ? How much can they really enjoy the same films that attract them ? . Watching this documentary one can't really say . Of all five people analyzed in the film only Jack comes close to a normal person . He is a walking encyclopedia . He knows about cinema . I have seen him in numerous occasions and have talked to him . He is the source one wishes to have when one is thinking of an obscure passage of a forgotten film , domestic or foreign . His whole life revolves around the different showings around the city . His life is a mess , but at least , he gives the appearance of normalcy in comparison to the others . Roberta is an eccentric lady whose whole life revolves around collecting programs wherever she goes . She appears to go to films out of duty , not because she really enjoys what she is seeing . Her own anecdote of taking off her blouse during an air conditioned failure is a hoot . Talking to her after a film will give you no clue if she liked or disliked what she saw . She would be much better off staying home sorting out a whole lifetime at the movies and straightening the mess she lives in . I hate to see a fire in that tenement , or in some of the other apartments , for that matter . Co-directors Christlieb and Kijak know these people very well . They give us a bit of their world ; they have captured the essence of these five lonely souls in the big city .
Soul mates	Antoine , a struggling actor , meets a lovely young woman in the metro . Claire , who sits across from Antoine , can't help but looking at him , as he also steals away glances at her . When he starts writing her a note in what seems to be a script , she writes him back . After they write one another for a few minutes , arriving at her stop , she asks him is he can't talk and gives him her phone number . After Antoine manages to get a hold of himself , he calls Claire and they agree to meet . They both like one another ; the chemistry appears to be perfect between them . Antoine and Claire begin a relationship in which everything seems to be perfect , until we watch them awaiting their turn in a clinic where both have gone for a check-up . We realize there's something wrong and naturally , we think it's Antoine the one with the problem . Nothing prepares when Claire declares she is HIV + Things begin to unravel as Claire and Antoine's relationship begins to suffer because what she perceives as his attitude toward her . When Claire decides to leave Antoine , he is not ready to accept the fact . Even though he has come around to support her , she can't accept it . Antoine , who has been distant from his father , comes home for a visit in which the older man confesses how wrong he had been in opposing his decision to become an actor . Antoine , who has not seen Claire , goes to see her as she is celebrating her birthday , but it's too late for the lovers . The last scene shows Antoine's face framed by a window looking at the lovely Claire at her party with her guests . Director Arnaud Viard , an actor himself , has accomplished the impossible : a serious film about an important theme that doesn't preach , or throw in our faces heavy messages . His take on the relationship is the right one . Who knows makes two people fall in love ? Or better yet , what triggers them to break what appears to be a solid commitment between these two people love that love one another passionately ? Of course , the HIV virus is at center stage getting between Antoine and Claire in ways they never thought possible . The only surprise in the film is the way Claire contracts the virus , which she could also have transmitted to Antoine . By casting the two attractive leads that personify cleanliness and purity , Mr . Viard throws us a curve ball out of nowhere , suggesting perhaps there is no perfect love relationships . The best thing in the film are the two leads . Julien Boisselier is immensely likable . He is handsome , has a great screen presence and plays well together with the exquisite Julie Gayet , who we have admired in other movies . Ms . Gayet , in turn , has a luminosity and clarity , as her character's namesake . She is an adorable young actress who doesn't make a false movement in her portrayal of Claire . The wonderful Michel Aumont , seen as Antoine's father , makes a great impression and contributes to the success of the film . Arnaud Viard , who also wrote and produced this amazing film , tells his story in 81 minutes , something that other creators would spend more time without the same amazing results . One can only salute Mr . Viard and hope for more great films from him .
Big girls don't cry	If anyone had doubts about the genius of Clint Eastwood , they should run , not walk , to see " Million Dollar Baby " , perhaps the best movie that came out of Hollywood is past year . Mr . Eastwood has that rare quality in choosing an odd story to bring to the screen . With this film he accomplishes what could be , perhaps , the best movie about boxing in history . In the first place , the story by F . X . Toole , in which the movie is based , is an odd choice . We have seen , so far , men boxers , but there is a world out there where women boxers compete in this sport that is not well known , or not commonly seen . The adaptation by Paul Haggis is excellent . " Million Dollar Baby " has a rhythm of its own , seldom seen in boxing formula pictures . Thanks to Tom Stern almost black and white cinematography , this sordid world of second class gyms in the poor areas of the inner city , makes the film more interesting in its texture . Enhancing it all is the great musical score that Mr . Eastwood , a jazz enthusiast , has created . Music has always complimented Mr . Eastwood's work , but never in such a way as in this movie . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading now . Frankie Dunn , is a man who has trained boxing champions . He is a man at odds with himself . He has demons within him that are tearing away at his soul . We watch him going to mass on a daily basis , but does that qualify him as a devout Catholic ? Not according to Father Horvak , who sees a troubled soul in search of redemption . Frankie's letters comes back , returned from a daughter that wants nothing to do with him . Frankie , at the beginning of the film , loses the services of one his better boxers because a richer competitor is willing to pay the fighter much more . Frankie keeps the older Eddie " Scrap-Iron " Dupris employed in the gym because he feels guilty in having let this former boxer down at the highest point of Scrap's career . Into this world comes Maggie Fitzgerald . She is a young woman who wants to make it as a fighter ; she comes from a white trash background and everything is against her . The only reason she has been allowed in the all-male gym is because she has paid six months worth of membership . We watch Maggie as she struggles on her own without any help from Frankie , the man she would like to interest in coaching her . Frankie realizes there is potential in this young woman , who he sees on a daily basis practicing , and he relents . Maggie proves she follows his instructions well . Then we watch her progress as she wins fight after fight until the million dollar fight with the vicious title holder . The ironic twist toward the end of the movie arrives out of nowhere ; it shakes us up because it was totally unexpected . It makes Frankie and Maggie become father and daughter . Because of the guilt he feels in his own life , Frankie does the right thing in accepting the responsibility of the situation . The ending is the only thing that feels a bit manipulative in the film , although it's handled with a lot of taste , as it would have been worse in the hands of another , less capable director . The only other complain is that Mr . Eastwood speaks in a whisper , which distracts from what is going on , as we strain our ears to catch every nuance of the brilliant dialog . Also , the voice over by Morgan Freeman's character is at times , unintelligible . This is a film totally dominated by Clint Eastwood . As an actor , he brings to the role total credibility as the tormented soul inside Frankie . Hilary Swank makes a brilliant Maggie , the ambitious girl that gets much more than what she bargained for . Ms . Swank has the best moment of her career after her work in " Boys Don't Cry " . Working with the right elements , Ms . Swank is an actress that works with little gestures to achieve her input in the character she is playing . Morgan Freeman is excellent as the beaten Scrap , a man who " could have been a contender " . He underplays this character with sensational results . Brian O'Byrne , a theater actor who has been seen in two important plays this year in the New York stages , makes an impression as Father Hovark , who seems to understand Frankie . Margo Martindale is convincing as Maggie's mother . Sometimes it takes a lot for a film to be good . All the right elements were gathered by Clint Eastwood for this movie . It makes one wonder what will his next project be , or if he can surpass the milestone he created with " Million Dollar Baby " .
Rowing to the Promised Land	I missed this documentary when it ran for about two weeks at the Film Forum . I was hoping that it would resurface again , as was the case , when it was shown on cable not too long ago . Both film makers , Carlos Bosch and Jose Ma . Domenech must be commended for tackling the story about seven or eight " raft people " in pursuing their dream to go to the United States in search of a better life . Cuba , after more of 45 years of communist rule , has been a monumental failure . I am sure that some people will argue that because the embargo and American policies toward that nation , things turned out the way they did . In the end one dictator was replaced by another . The paradise that was promised at the beginning of the revolution is still to be realized . In order to survive in Cuba today , one has to have either relatives abroad , or to belong to the inner circle . No one wants to face the reality that when Cuba was a Soviet Union colony , they could buy whatever it was needed , either on credit , or through gifts in way of oil and basic heavy machinery from its Russian bosses . That a lot of the population wants to get out of the " tropical paradise " is no surprise . In the case of the people singled out in the documentary , only a few get to fulfill their dreams and get to live a modified " American Dream " , while the other half failed miserably , maybe because the reality of the dream turned for them into a nightmare . Of all the cases presented , only about three make something out of themselves . Their idea of how capitalism works is much more of whatever dreams they might have had . The reality of life in the United States , with its harsh realities , play havoc with a few of the new immigrants . That is the case of the former prostitute who turn into a drug dealer and the young black sculptor who gets involved with the wrong kind of crowd in New York . This is a must see documentary that stays neutral neither in favor of the exodus , or against it .
The colors of India	Gurinder Chadha has transported Jane Austen's great novel to India . What a charmer this film turns out to be ! The adaptation of the novel is excellent as the new locale is incorporated to the story . The incredible Indian colors explode in front of our eyes giving the Western viewers such an opportunity to experience a little taste of India . Asihwarya Rai is without a doubt , one of the most beautiful women working in movies . This gorgeous creature plays Lalita , the unmarried girl at the center of the action . Martin Henderson is the handsome Darcy , the man that falls head over heels after meeting Lalita . Their first moments are awkward , as it's expected when there are a clash of cultures . But it's clear from the beginning is that these two lovers have fallen in love in spite of their differences . The musical numbers are a joy to watch . There is always music and dance in most Indian films . The director , and the choreographer take advantage of the genre in ways that fill our eyes constantly with a dance sequence more lavish than the previous one . In minor roles Daniel Gillies plays Johnny Wickham . Marsha Mason is seen briefly as Mrs . Darcy , a woman whose prejudice against her son's love for Lalita . The cast is wonderful . " Bride and Prejudice " is a triumph for director Gurinder Chadha .
Going to jail	There is no doubt that Spike Lee is a very good director . Let's hope with this film he will reach a wider audience , although Mr . Lee's credentials are well known by the discerning fans of his work . Mr . Lee works here from a screenplay written by David Benioff , based on his own novel . This director's best asset is how well he guides his actors into giving memorable performances , as is the case in this one by the brilliant cast assembled for this movie . Spike Lee is never boring . He has a knack for goading his audience with themes and ideas uncommon in mainstream films . There is a very provocative sequence at the beginning of this film in which Monty Brogan , the Edward Norton character , spews venom at the audience in a form of a bigot's rap where all different ethnic groups are disparaged in one way or another . That's what's going on in Monty's mind and that's exactly what we get . It's the way Mr . Lee wants us to shock us with the prejudices from the soul of this man . Edward Norton is an actor that pours his soul into any appearance on screen . He never duplicates any other character . One can see what Monty is going through by just watching Mr Norton's face . Mr . Norton belongs to a rare breed of actors who must be a director's dream come true because you can bet he doesn't compromise at all . He can enhance any film just by being in it . He outdoes himself in this picture . Phillip Seymour Hoffman redeems himself here . He was under utilized in Punch Drunk Love . He is also an actor that's always a welcome addition to any film . His Jakob is someone we have known in one form or another , be it a teacher , a working colleague or maybe a school friend . He is very effective here . Barry Pepper , as Monty's best friend , is all energy , no doubt from his highly stressful job . He is a live wire waiting to explode . His anger is visible . Barry Pepper is another actor that is interesting to watch and he is perfectly cast as Frank . The other principals , Brian Cox , playing Monty's father , is a man that has failed his son in many ways , but now he's there for him in the hour of need . Rosario Dawson , as Naturelle , is also very effective . She's a beautiful presence in whatever films she's in . Ana Paquin has grown up into a rounded actress who is good in films and in the theater . No doubt this film owes a great deal to all the ones involved in it , but it shows there's an excellent director behind it all .
Ugly duckling turns into a swan	At the height of WWII , Hollywood produced a lot of excellent melodramas . These were the vehicles the studios created for its stars of that era . It was either a Joan Crawford picture , or a Barbara Stanwyck , or a Bette Davis one , since their presence , bigger than life , was the only reason to bring these stories to the big screen . Take this one , for instance , under the direction of Irving Rapper . It had all the right elements , yet it was chaste enough to pass the censor . Undoubtedly , this movie owes a lot to the fantastic score by the talented Max Steiner who was a genius . Mr . Steiner's music plays the haunting melodies with such flair , we feel we are listening to a great symphonic work . The story , by today's standards wouldn't raise an eyebrow . At the time it came out , it was a different thing . After all , Jerry was a married man with a daughter and a situation that had no easy solution then . That makes Charlotte Vale suffer after she found her soul mate aboard the ship that served to free herself from a despotic mother . Bette Davis plays Charlotte to perfection . Her scenes with Paul Hendried lighting the two cigarettes is something to cherish by film fans . The chemistry that Bette Davis shared with her leading men was no small accomplishment . She was an actress that knew how to pull the heart strings of the general public . She had such a charisma and power to lose herself in all those strong women she played through the years . The transformation of the plain Charlotte to the smart woman , who embarks on a tour to begin a new life , is something out of a fairy tale , but Ms . Davis pulls it with great panache . The rest of the cast was excellent . Claude Rains , Gladys Cooper , Bonita Granville , Ilka Chase ! They only come once in a lifetime . No one in present day Hollywood comes near to that . It was perfection .
That championship season	David Anspaugh's " Hoosiers " is a film about the passion to excel in sports . It's also about a man's comeback to the game after a rough patch in his own life . " Hoosiers " is a timeless film that will look good after years of its release because it speaks to us about how someone can inspire a group of people to do their best , as they become confident in what they are trying to accomplish . The film was lovingly written for the screen by Angelo Pizzo . Coach Norman Dale gets a reprieve in life when he is hired to coach the Hickory basket ball team in rural Indiana . Basketball is the game where most people in that state take an unusual interest . Their passion for the sport is evident . The new coach is looked with suspicion because he is an outsider and he believes in teamwork . He wants everyone to participate equally , which doesn't make for excitement in the court . The coach doesn't want anyone overshadowing another , that's why he insists in total involvement . Needless to say , his method clashes with the parents and towns people from the start . The coach's past comes to haunt him when Myra Fleener , one of the teachers , discovers an article that reveals an incident Mr . Dale would like to forget . At the same time , Myra realizes the goodness in the coach's heart by involving the drunken Shooter into helping him with the team . Gene Hackman has one of the best opportunities of his distinguished career with his portrayal of Coach Dale . He is splendid in the film and he wins us with his decency and by sticking to his principles , which he passes on to the team members . Barbara Hershey is also good as Myra , the young woman who falls in love with Dale . Dennis Hopper plays Shooter , the father of one of the kids in the team who has a drinking problem . " Hoosiers " is an inspiring film that ought to be seen by young people because of its message about team spirit and how to interact with one another in peace and harmony .
One for the road !	This film , in my humble opinion , has been misunderstood by the public , judging by the comments I've heard about it . First of all , the director Cedric Kahn is one of France's most interesting figures to come out in the last years . He knows what he is doing , and what's more , he's being naughty in the way he presents his story that makes us see it one way , but is it what we are seeing real ? The adaptation by M . Kahn and Laurence Ferreira Barbosa takes the Georges Simenon story from America to France . The most interesting thing about Antoine is that he is an ordinary man . He is married to a Helene , who is a more successful person ; Helene is a lawyer who must make a lot of money , much more than Antoine . As a couple , we can't see them together at all . Antoine is a man who is not handsome . Helene , on the other hand is a beautiful woman , and we wonder what brought them together in the first place ? We witness Antoine going to the bathroom where he ogles his own wife in the shower . It appears their sexual life has ended long before we meet them . Antoine has a drinking problem . On the trip to pick up their children they encounter heavy traffic . As they take a detour from the main highway , their troubles start . We see the passing " red lights " of the different bars beckoning Antoine to stop and have another beer , or a beer with a chaser . To make things worse , they hear on the radio about the escapee from the Le Mans prison , near to where they are traveling . We see the roadblocks and the erratic way in which Antoine begins to drive . After one pit stop , Helene disappears . She has decided to take the train and leaves him a note . Antoine goes to the station , but he is late . Thus begins what will be a long night adventure along rural , nocturnal France . Without giving away what happens , we watch Antoine waking up . Antoine's car is in a ditch and he must fix the tire if he wants to go to get the children . This awakening seems to me , the turning point of the story . Are we sure what we saw after Helene's disappearance and what happened in the road to Antoine with a stranger really occur ? Mr . Kahn is playing with us . There are a lot of clues , but as detectives , the director is asking us to stay attentive to what is really going on , or isn't . The film belongs to Jean Pierre Darrousin . He is an actor whose own appearance makes us not care for the man we see on the screen . On the other hand , M . Darrousin knows who this Antoine is and what makes him tick . His performance is subtle , yet he carries the film in a way no one would expect from a not well known star . Carole Bouquet is a bourgeois woman who seems to be living in the wrong marriage . In contrast with her husband , she is in control of her life ; she appears , at least on the surface , not to care about Antoine , but she has stayed married for a while . We know that Helene cares for Antoine at the end of the film when the two meet at the hospital . This film shows Cedric Kahn as a director to be reckoned with .
Obsession	Luchino Visconti was light years ahead of his contemporaries . The great directors of Italy of the 40s and 50s were men who understood the medium , but it was Luchino Visconti , a man of vision , who dared to bring a film like to show what he was capable of doing . He clearly shows his genius early on in his distinguished career with " Ossessione " , a film based on James Cain's " The Postman Always Ring Twice " , which was later made by Hollywood , but that version pales in comparison with what Visconti achieved in the movie . Luchino Visconti and his collaborators on the screen included an uncredited Alberto Moravia , a man who knew about the effect of passion on human beings . The film has been well preserved in the DVD format we watched recently . The film is a must for all serious movie fans because we can see how Visconti's vision translated the text into a movie that rings true in a plausible way , something the American version lacked . What comes across watching the movie , is the intensity which the director got from his key players . The magnificent Clara Calamai does an amazing job as Giovanna , the woman who has married an older man , but when Gino appears in her life , all she wants to do is rid herself of the kind man who gave her an opportunity in life . Giovanna is one of the best creations in Ms . Calamai's achievements in the Italian cinema . The last sequence of the film shows Ms . Calamai at her best in the ironic twist that serves as the moral redemption for the monstrous crime that was committed . Equally excellent is Massimo Girotti , one of the best actors of his generation who appears as Gino , the hunky man that awakens the obsessive passion in Giovanna . Gino is the perfect man for Giovanna , something that Mr . Girotti projects with such ease and sophistication not equaled before in the screen . Mr . Girotti makes the man come alive in a performance that seems so easy , yet with another actor it might not have been so apparent . Juan DeLanda is seen as Giuseppe , the older man who fell in love with Giovanna . In fact , his character rings truer than his counterpart in the American film , where he is seen more as a buffoon . The film is beautifully photographed by Domenic Scala and Aldo Tonti . They gave the film a naturalistic look that was the way Italian directors of the era favored . The original musical score of Giuseppe Rosati is perfect . Visconti , a man who loved opera and was one of the best directors , also includes arias by Bizet and Verdi that fit well in the context of the movie . " Ossessione " is a film to treasure because we see a great Luchino Visconti at the top of his form .
Famous	The key for perhaps understanding Truman Capote's real character comes out during a conversation between him and Slim Keith . Truman Capote asks her , perhaps naively , why doesn't she ever open up to him , to which she clearly answers she'd rather not because everyone will know about it ! This author was a social butterfly , as he is caught in this amazingly acerbic picture by Douglas McGrath . The same people he cultivated will drop him like a hot potato in a few years because the book he is seen writing at the end of the movie : " Unanswered Prayers " . " Infamous " delves into Truman Capote's obsession with the crime committed in Holcomb , Kansas , in the late fifties , in which a family of four were killed in a heinous crime committed by a pair of misguided criminals who actually got away empty handed . Mr . Capote , in turn , falls under one of the murderer's spell after he gains entrance to interview him for the book he intends to write . Things obviously weren't as easy for even a celebrity writer from New York , when Capote , accompanied by his friend Nelle Harper Lee , another novelist , come into town to investigate the crime . According to Mr . Capote , the book he is envisioning is reportage with fiction undertones , but as Ms . Lee wisely points out to him , if he wants to make a book of fiction , where will the fantasy fit in the book . Truman Capote , with his effeminate mannerisms , was not welcomed in Holcomb . He , and Ms . Lee , weren't given the time of the day ! The lucky break comes as the local prosecutor's wife invites the visitors to come and have a Christmas dinner with them that he is able to penetrate this conservative society by using the charm that had made him a celebrity among the rich ladies that lunch crowd in Manhattan ! By mentioning his connection to the Hollywood movie crowd , he dazzles the same people that didn't want him around . After all , he had been around enough notables himself to last him for life . His society connections open the door for him to go ahead with his book project . As he gains Percy Smith's confidence , there is a hint about homosexuality on the convict's part . Truman Capote feels dazzled by Smith and also falls under his charms and good looks . Their intimacy is what enabled the author to finish his novel , although he needs to wait for the two men's execution in order to bring the book to full closure . In a powerful scene at the jail cell , Truman Capote bares his soul about his life and the tragedy of her mother , a woman who wanted to belong to society , but must face the fact she didn't belong . Douglas McGrath , the excellent director , working with the material of George Plimpton's book , made a wonderful movie about Capote . Where Mr . McGrath succeeds is by presenting Truman Capote's inter action with the society people he loved and catered to . Mr . Capote was a valuable ally for most of the rich women in the circle in which he made himself essential . After all , he was a witty man with the right epigram for the right occasion and the latest bit of dirt about people in the New York society . Toby Jones gives a great performance as Capote . His mannerisms , his voice , and his witticism are perfectly captured by this diminutive man that makes us believe he is nobody else but Truman Capote . Sandra Bullock transforms herself in the unassuming Nelle Harper Lee , a true friend . Jeff Daniels is also at his best as Alvin Dewey . Among the rich ladies portrayed in the film , Sigourney Weaver makes an impression as Babe Paley , especially dancing with Capote at El Morocco . Hope Davis appears as Slim Keith ; she has a couple of good moments . Juliet Stevenson's take of Diana Vreeland is pitch perfect . Daniel Craig , with his darkened hair , appears as Percy Smith . Gwyneth Paltrow is only seen at the beginning of the movie as a chanteuse . " Infamous " has a intense dark cinematography by Bruno Delbonnel . The film was shot in closed interiors where Mr . Delbonnel's camera shows the world in which most of the characters inhabited . Rachel Portman's musical score serves the film well . The film is a triumph for Douglas McGrath , a man who clearly understood how to bring to life the tragic figure of Truman Capote . The director was lucky in finding Toby Jones to impersonate the celebrity author .
There is nothing like a dame !	Alfred Hitchcock's British films were delightful in that they all have a " lightness " that the master abandoned when he arrived in America . Most of these films have equal parts of comedy and suspense . In this film . Mr . Hitchcock creates a great film that heralds what will come in a short time to Europe and will change the world with WWII . This is a classic film that will endure the passing of time . All the elements are in place for the viewer to solve the mystery presented . We are given clues , although Mr . Hitchcock plays with our perception of what is real and what's not . The cast was an inspired one . Margaret Lockwood is earthy and brunette , not the blonde heroine the director favored in most of his films . Michael Redford is also excellent in the film , as is Dame May Whitty and the rest of the actors .
The dreamer	" Fitzcarraldo " is an ode to men who dare to have dreams and make them come true . This epic speaks volumes about a man who happens to be obsessed with the opera , which is his passion . He is a foreigner in a hostile land at the beginning of the last century where enormous fortunes were made in different parts of the world . For Fitzcarraldo , it is Peru , the land where he is now living . As he is introduced in the story , he is seen arriving at the Manaus opera house , to catch the Great Caruso sing . Since he has no ticket , and the performance is sold out , he impresses on one of the attendants , who lets him , and Molly , his companion , stay at the back of the house . Fitzcarraldo , who returns with Molly back to Iquitos , a desolate locale , figures he will bring opera , and Caruso to the city . Fitzcarraldo , who has no means to support his dream , decides to go into the rubber business . For that , he must go to a remote spot , away from where the other , and wealthier rubber barons , have established claims to the land . It will take only a resolute , and mad person to undertake such a gigantic enterprise . With the help of Molly , he buys a dilapidated boat and modernizes it . He takes along an experienced captain , a great mechanic , Cholo , and the best cook money can buy into a trip down the river to his property . The only thing is he soon realizes how if he continues along the river route , he will be in danger because of the rapids at one particular spot . His decision , to hoist the ship across a mountain to the other side , where another river is more navigable . Fitzcarraldo made a lasting impression on the local Indian population , who saw in this adventurer , somebody larger than life . His inter action with them was instrumental in doing the insurmountable task that had to be done to get to his ultimate goal . This film could only have been done by Werner Herzog , a director who was not afraid to go into an inhospitable part of South America to photograph this magnificent picture . Helped by his cinematographer , Thomas Mauch , he was able to conquer a great obstacle in order to make the film . Popol Vuh's film score mingles with some great music by Bellini , Puccini , Verdi and Strauss that does wonder in the background . No one but Klaus Kinski was born to play Fitzcarraldo , in what might be considered his best screen role . Mr . Kinski was an obsessed actor who bares his soul in getting under the skin of his characters . As Fitzcarraldo , he goes through the whole gamut of emotions to show what this man was really like . We can't take our eyes from him throughout the picture because of his intensity and his honesty in portraying this mad man with a vision for beauty . Claudia Cardinale makes a tremendous contribution to the film as Molly , the woman who loved , understood , and saw the genius of her man . Jose Lewgoy is perfect as Don Aquilino , Fitzcarraldo's rival and mentor . Miguel Angel Fuentes is also excellent as Cholo . Huerequeque Bohorquez plays the cook and Paul Hittscher appears as the captain . The last sequence of the film shows Mr . Herzog's greatness as Mr . Kinski rides with the opera company in a small ship . They sing an aria from " I Puritani " , an opera that delights his soul as Fitzcarraldo feasts himself into Iquitos in their company .
The dictator	Most satraps that gain power begin with the pledge they are for the people . Unfortunately , history proves them wrong , again and again . In their hunger for power these misguided individuals confuse what the job entails and concentrate only in taking care of themselves as they develop huge egos that will betray them and ultimately cause their own downfall . Idi Amin , the Ugandan dictator , was a man that came into power with the potential for doing good . Instead he went to surround himself with inept people as he eliminated the ones that dared to oppose him . In this fictionalized account of the life of this strong man , there are hints that he never had any good intentions for his country or his fellow Ugandans . The story links a naive young Scot , Dr . Nicholas Garrigan , who one day decides as a lark to point to an earth globe with his finger and decide that wherever it lands , that's where he will go to practice medicine . The first time he tries , the finger lands in Canada , but he rejects it , probably as not challenging enough . The second try his finger touches Uganda , a place that will prove fateful for this young doctor . Little prepares Dr . Garrigan for what he encounters once in Uganda . The remote spot where he is to practice is run by the Merits , a doctor and his wife . The town where Garrigan begins working receives the visit of the new head of the country , Idi Amin . Garrigan is obviously impressed with the energy displayed by the general , who assures the poor people he is there to protect them because he is for the people . An accident brings back the doctor to the presidential car . Amin , who realizes Garrigan is from England , is happily surprised when the young man tells him he hails from Scotland . That fateful meeting impresses both men . Amin , the powerful man , decides he wants the young doctor to be his own personal physician . The young doctor is dazzled by the Mercedes that is given to him and how he suddenly is made to be the head of the hospital in Kampala . In the meantime , Garrigan meets , and falls for one of Amin's wives , the gorgeous Kay whose only son is epileptic . Things begin to change and Garrigan realizes he has really misjudged the situation . He starts to see how his protector can really turn against him when he wants out . The bloodbath throughout the country will devastate the land . Dr . Garrigan is angered by what Amin has done to Kay ; the cruelty the dictator knows no boundaries . Kevin MccDonald the director of " The Last King of Scotland " paints a realistic picture of the madness during the Idi Amin's regime . The dictator is presented as he probably was . As any man in his position , Amin manipulates the political situation to his own advantage . He uses people to carry on his agenda and when they question anything , he eliminates them . Forest Whitaker gives an epic performance in the title role . Mr . Whitaker , a serious actor who should be seen more often , smolders the screen every time we see him ; he is bigger than life ! We don't recall a performer that was able to convey what goes on in the mind of a satrap the way this actor captures every nuance of his character . Mr . Whitaker is magnificent in the way he brings this hideous man alive and runs away with the film . James McAvoy , who plays Dr . Garrigan , is also an excellent player . He matches Mr . Whitaker perfectly . This young actor , from whose eyes the story is seen , makes a tremendous contribution to the success of the picture . Kerry Washington has a small , but pivoting role , as Kay Amin , one of the dictator's wives . Gillian Anderson appears as Sarah Merrit and Simon McBurney gives an interesting performance as Nigel Stone . " The Last King of Scotland " is one of the best biopics about a dictator . The combination of Douglas McGrath and Forest Whitaker translates into one of the best films about the horrors of unlimited power in the hands of a mad man .
Pink flower arrangements	Jim Jarmusch returns to the screen with an immensely pleasing film that looks extremely simple , but in fact , it's what is not being said that really is at the center of the picture . Mr . Jarmusch is one director that loves to work with an economy of everything . His films seem to be crying for a set decorator , but that is misleading , because it's the simplicity that seems to work in most cases . If you haven't seen the film , perhaps you should stop reading here . At the center of the story is Don Johnston , whose name seems to provoke in most people a recognition by associating it to the actor , Don Johnson . Nothing could be farther from the truth . Don is a taciturn man , who when we meet him is being dumped by his last girlfriend . Don Johnston , with his deadpan demeanor , appears to be a man that has gone through life on auto pilot . In fact , when he receives the letter that will , in a way , change his life , he doesn't even react . His solution to the problem is to show this letter to his next door neighbor , Winston . Little does Don knows , but Winston maps out a plan to get him involved in the solution of the mystery he is presented . We accompany Don in a trip of discovery to reacquaint himself with former lovers who might have been instrumental in sending the pink letter . Thus we meet Laura , the closet organizer , a widow now , living with a precocious daughter , Lolita , who seems to have jumped from the Nabokov's book , in all her precociousness . Then , there is Dora , the real estate woman who lives in a development in which all the houses look alike . We meet Carmen , the pet communicator , a sort of animal analyst who has turned her love interest another way . Finally , we are given a glimpse of Penny , who couldn't care less to see Don one more time . The opening sequence that sets the story in motion is nothing but perfection . We watch the fateful letter at the beginning when it's being dropped in the mail box right up to its delivery through Don's mail slot . Jim Jarmusch , and his amazing cast have done wonders with this film . Bill Murray is sensational as the jaded Don Johnston . Once again , this actor clearly shows he is at the top of the game . Jeffrey Wright , one of the best young actors working in films and in the theater these days , makes a valuable contribution as Winston . The women in Don's life are fantastic . Sharon Stone , Frances Conroy , Julie Delpy , Tilda Swinton , and Jessica Lange are seen at their best . Finally , two excellent turns by Alexis Dziena as Lolita and Chloe Sevigny as an assistant to Carmen . Mr . Jarmusch has created a film that says a lot about how modern relationships are being practiced these days .
Halle's Comet has arrived ! !	Wow , Halle Berry's appearance in this film is about the best of the year . It's difficult to conceive the part of Leticia played by any other actress . She's very convincing as this woman in rural Georgia where there are still so many prejudices against her for the mere fact that she's black . Frankly , this actress never impressed me before as she did with her work here . Billy Bob Thornton is one our best and most versatile actors around . He gives in this film another great performance . The only thing that's not very convincing is his changeover from being a bigot into an accepting individual when tragedy strikes him at home and on the road . He and Ms . Berry have a lot in common as tormented souls that finally find one another and they are both changed for the best . The sure direction by Marc Forster and the original screenplay by Milo Addica and Will Rokos , make this film very compelling to watch . They have been helped by the incredible cast they have making these people come true on the screen .
Argentine realities	Rulo , the middle aged man at the center of this story , has to deal with all the present realities his country is going through . His friend Torres , is instrumental in finding him a job in a building project as a crane operator . He must pass a medical examination that reveals he is suffering from a strange disorder that keeps him awake after awakening for any reason at night , and he is overweight . This man has a son , Claudio , that like most of the Argentine youths don't seem to have a clear future . He has a rock band , but he sponges from his father whatever the older man can afford to give him . Rulo , who is somewhat proud of what Caludio is trying to achieve because he , himself , had his own musical group in the 60s and was a minor celebrity . That is quite a contrast from the present circumstances . Adriana , the owner of a small kiosk where Rulo goes to get his lunch , feels an attraction for him . She remembers the band and how she used to follow him in her youth . Nothing comes out of this possible relationship because Rulo , after a month of working in the building , loses the job because of the medical report . Torres , his friend , tells him to go South , to Comodoro Rivadavia , where his friend Santori will give him a chance . That , of course , seems to be the end for Adriana and Rulo , as she lets him know when he is ready to depart . Rulo's luck runs out even in that remote spot when labor troubles at the place where he is working . He is once more defeated and calls his mother . He doesn't want to tell her the truth , but as he asks for Claudio , who by now is living with the grandmother , Rulo reveals the truth and that he has to come back to Buenos Aires again , defeated . Pablo Trapero's " Crane World " has a look that reminds us of Italian Neorealism . The film is shot in black and white . Mr . Trapero uses improvisation with excellent results . The actors used , with a few exceptions , are people from his neighborhood in Buenos Aires . The places that were used are authentic and that's why the film has such an impact because it feels real . One marvels at this director who was able to put together an important film with so little , yet the picture is true of the Argentina after the excess of the Menen regime where practically all the industry had been sold to multinationals and the middle class of the country , a majority , suddenly saw themselves move a few notches down in the economic ladder . Best of the film is the great contribution Luis Margani brought to the film . We believe he is Rulo from the moment he first open his mouth . For being a non professional actor , Mr . Margani carries the film on the strength of his magnificent performance . Equally appealing is Adriana Aizemberg , an actress that is another natural . Her Adriana is devoid of mannerisms matching the style of Mr . Margani . They make a wonderful bittersweet couple that must deal with reality to keep on living , yet , they are not embittered by what life has given them . Daniel Valenzuela , Rolly Serrano , Graciela Chironi and Federico Esquerro make valuable contributions under Pablo Trapero's direction . " Crane World " is a slice of life as seen from Pablo Trapero a director who shows great integrity and presents us with his reality .
Born to kill	This film was surprise and a find . A lot of people might be offended by the way Jeffrey Dahmer is presented , but director David Jacobson manages to keep things under control all the time . Obviously , he has done his research and the most important thing that comes across is Dahmer's latent and repressed homosexuality , which , in a way , explains his appetite for killing . A lot of people seem to forget this movie is based on reality and that reality was Jeffrey Dahmer ! Jeremy Renner's portrayal of the main character is very complex and subtle . He had to be that way in order to get closer to his victims . He is a product of his own upbringing . His parents are so cold toward him that it's a wonder he could even function at all . We can see the gradual falling into the nightmare his life became . Mr . Renner works in a minimal style that suits the film very well . Bruce Davidson role as the father is so low key and underplayed that one can see this being the reason for the monster , he and his wife helped to create . Another bright idea for director Jacobson is the casting of Artel Kayaru as Rodney , who's obviously attracted to Jeffrey in a fatal attraction kind of way . This young actor is incredible and he should be given more opportunities to show how good he is in other vehicles .
Loving boys	The title of this magnificent documentary is ambiguous enough to suggest the director was getting to know this family , or the actual incarceration of Arnold and Jesse Friedman . Andrew Jarecki accomplishes a deeply disturbing portrait of a family in turmoil in the suburbs , where everything is supposed to be ideal and things like this never happen . Arnold Friedman was a sick man . He was a homosexual and a pedophile , who took refuge in the form of a normal father and husband in Great Neck . In almost all cases such as this , the pedophile has been a victim himself at an earlier age . The way he translated his desires was by molesting other children that might be in the wrong place at the wrong time . Arnold must have been sexually abused by the some of the men his mother took to bed , and he in turn , made his own brother Howard have improper sex with him . In abusing his own son , Jesse , Arnold proves that his appetite doesn't differentiate between his own flesh and blood from a stranger . Jesse must have loved the attention his father always showed him and went along with the sickening arrangement to keep his father happy . Jesse in turn will probably go into being a pedophile himself because deep inside of him will be a desire to do unto others what was done to him when he couldn't fight back . Elaine , the mother , is a pathetic figure in this household . She had no clue of what was going on under her roof . She turned perhaps a blind eye toward what her husband was doing under her nose because there must have been indications that Jesse's relationship with his father was not normal . Jesse , as a child , had such a tender beauty that it's not difficult to see the way he awakened a sickening desire in his own father . As far as the case is concerned , it all came about because of the Postal inquiry about the pornography that Arnold bought as a way to satisfy his cravings . Since he was heavily into taking home movies , it will surprise no one that he had access to a lot of young boys that were his children's playmates and ultimately his own students of computer science at the very beginning of the technology . All the Friedmans , with the exception of Seth , who doesn't appear in the documentary , express their opinions as commentators ; they all cooperated willingly , or so it seems , with the director . We wonder to what extent Elaine keeps denying her knowledge , or David , for that matter because it's obvious that Jesse is not one to ask because all what he went through is very painful , or he would not be objective about this case . Even Howard , Arnold's own brother can't understand what was going on in his brother's house . He talks to the camera and seems absolutely normal about telling this story . Toward the end of the documentary , his male lover gives his own account and frankly , it surprises the viewer , because we had no indication at all that Howard was gay and living with in a seeming healthy relationship . The young people that were made to accuse the Friedmans fall under two categories , either they were speaking the truth , or they were made to confess things that didn't happen to them . There have been a lot of instances with smaller children , where the police and criminal investigators have put into their minds things that they think occurred , thus making these young ones to react as though it was indeed what they experienced in the hands of pedophiles . Jesse is taken to prison as well as Arnold because they are accused by the former students of having acted improperly . There is a revealing sequence in an interview with the lawyer that defended the Friedmans . It's seen toward the end of the film . In it , the lawyer speaks about the time he visited Arnold in prison and how nearby there was a man who was holding a young boy in his lap . As the child was getting restless , he kept jumping up and down and that action kept turning Arnold on sexually , that he asks the lawyer to move to another area . It is at this point that we get an insight into Arnold's perverse and uncontrollable sick mind and what aroused him . By way of atoning , or perhaps in a last effort to ask forgiveness from Jesse , Arnold takes a life insurance policy that makes his youngest son the beneficiary , but nothing else goes to the family , or at least , it's never explained in the film . This is one of the most disturbing documentaries that have come out in a long time . Thanks should go to the director Andrew Jarecki for delving into the tragic story of the Friedman family .
The French caper	If the caper genre owes a lot to Walter Huston , it also has a debt of gratitude to Jules Dassin , a man that was ahead of his times and who suffered a lot because of his blacklisting when Edward Dmytryk accused him of being a Communist . The end of his American career would have meant the end of Mr . Dassin , but moving to Europe proved he was bigger than the same people that had contributed to his Hollywood demise . " Rififi " is an elegant film in which all the right elements come together thanks to Mr . Dassin's vision . He decided to adapt Auguste Le Breton's novel because he saw the possibilities for turning it into a caper film that became an instant classic . Jules Dassin was penniless in Paris when he discovered the city that were going to serve as the background to his film . The bad weather paid off for Mr . Dassin as the streets were always wet and not much had to be done to show them that way . When we first meet Tony , he is playing cards . Tony appears to be in bad health ; he coughs all the time and sweats profusely . After losing all his money , he goes to see Jo , the Swede , who tells him about a possibility for a robbery at Maupin & Webb , the fancy jewelry store at a tony section of Paris . They pass the idea through Mario , who suggests Cesar , the Milanese , an expert safe cracker . Tony , who has come out of prison recently , learns that Mado , his former lover is now with Grutter , a creep that owns a night club . Upon confronting Mado , instead of love , all he feels is contempt , and the meeting ends badly and he throws her out of his place . Grutter has no love for Tony , who is his natural enemy because of his connection with Mado . When the day arrives , the gang is able to get to the apartment building where on the second floor , right above the jewelry store , the owner lives , but he is away . Everything goes well and the gang gets away with the jewels . Cesar , the Milanese , a typical ladies ' man , takes a ring as a souvenir , which in turn he gives the chanteuse at the Grutter's night club . This tactical mistake is the spark which unravels the well thought plan . Jean Servais made an excellent Tony . He showed a tired man who was possibly doing his last robbery . Carl Mohner , Robert Manuel and the director , Jules Dassin , are seen as Jo , Mario and Cesar , the quartet jewelry thieves . Marie Sabouret plays Mado . Marcel Lupovici plays Grutter with a subdued intensity . Robert Hussein , who would go to direct movies later on , makes an impression with his Remi , one of Grutter's men . The film best asset is the great camera work by Philippe Agostini , who captured the atmosphere of Paris and the locales where all these criminals operate from . Georges Auric's music plays well with the action in the film . Jules Dassin was peculiar in his choice of films that he directed , and unfortunately , that is our loss because this man was a genius as proved mainly with " The Naked City " , " Night and the City " and " Rififi " .
The magnificent Orson Welles	One wonders what movie would have resulted if Orson Welles would have been able to get his own cut , as opposed to what RKO Radio decided to show to the world . In spite of what one sees on the screen , even a chopped up film by the studio and directed by Orson Welles is better than no Orson Welles , at all ! Booth Tarkington wrote a novel that reflected America's entrance in the industrial age . Mr . Tarkington being a good friend of Mr . Welles ' father , must have been an early influence in young Orson . We can see that in a way , both men were interested in the changes America went through in the XIX century . " The Magnificent Ambersons " presents the saga of a prominent family in their spiral downfall . At the same time , Eugene Morgan , a revolutionary inventor is laughed at because of the contraption that will change the face of the country : the automobile . While the Ambersons lose their fortune , Eugene Morgan makes his own . In the end , it is sad to see how Morgan with all his money couldn't have Isabel , the love of his life , or his daughter , for that matter , couldn't make the snobbish Georgie care enough for her . What Orson Welles can't be fault on is the impeccable performances he got out of most of the Mercury Group . Joseph Cotten , as always , projects an elegant figure as Eugene . The gorgeous Dolores Costello is seen in all her beauty . The young Anne Baxter was perfect as Lucy . Ray Collins and Richard Bennett also do an outstanding job , as well as young Tim Holt . The best of all is Agnes Moorehead , who makes Fanny a creation . Ms . Moorehead is in fact a luminous presence in all her scenes in the movie . Robert Wise , who went to become a film director , is credited with the original editing , although two others were not credited , who could have been instrumental in what RKO did to the picture , Mark Robson and Jack Moss . The original costumes by Edward Stevenson are incredible . One could only hope that somewhere , hidden in a vault , a director's copy will be found as Orson Welles directed it and then , hopefully , we shall see the marvelous movie Orson Welles intended to make .
War casualties	" Forbidden Games " , Rene Clement's masterpiece , is a magnificent document about the absurdity of war . This anti-war film has given a lot of pleasure to audiences since its release . The film juxtaposes the madness of the conflict during WWII to the innocence of a child who is caught in its web of death and destruction . We are taken to the French countryside as people are leaving the madness behind in search of safer havens where the war would spare them of the tragedy the country was living during those days . Paulette , a girl who is fleeing with her parents has only one thing in mind , to stay with her beloved dog . As her pet gets loose , she runs across a bridge to rescue him when German aircraft strike killing her parents and her precious dog . Paulette wanders deep in the country and is discovered by Michel Dolle , a farm boy a bit older than Paulette . These two will bond with one another in ways that only innocent children would . Michel feels protective of this orphan girl . The Dolle family are poor peasants that are eking a life out of their land during difficult times . They have quarreled with their neighbors , the Gouards . The Dolles accept gladly the stray girl who obviously comes from a different world than theirs . The little girl , who wants to bury her dog , suddenly discovers death all around her . She finds in Michel a friend and an ally who will prove he is a true friend until the end . Michel , in turn , sees an opportunity to show Paulette his knowledge in the ways of the farm . When Michel's brother Georges die , both he and Paulette come face to face with a new reality they can't comprehend . Suddenly , their games take a new turn . The little girl's fascination with crosses and tombs come to a head as they go to the village's cemetery to bury Georges . In the graveyard Paulette finds a treasure trove of the beloved objects all over the place and she and Michel must have them to mark the tombs of their dead animals , something a child's mind could ever conceive . The local priest and the two families are shocked by the discovery , when after all , in Paulette's mind it was a new kind of game in her new surroundings . Rene Clement made an excellent job in this classic that will stay one of the most beloved pieces of film making of all times . Mr . Clement was extremely lucky in finding the luminous Brigitte Fossey to bring to life Paulette . Pairing this young non professional with Georges Poujouly , proved to be the right combination as the two children blend seamlessly together , complimenting each other throughout the picture . Brigitte Fossey , who was about five years old when the shooting took place , gives a performance that perhaps no other professional child actor has ever equaled . The Criterion DVD transfer we watched shows how wonderfully they have preserved this film for future generations to enjoy .
Half fare please !	Billy Wilder and his excellent collaborator , Charles Brackett , knew what the movie going public of the time wanted to see . So , it's not a surprise they achieved a great hit with " The Major and the Minor " . One has to go back to the time this film was made to realize what the creators of this comedy accomplished . This marked the first Hollywood film Mr . Wilder directed and his touch is everywhere . The movie stands the passage of time . " The Major and the Minor " works because of its two stars . Ginger Rogers and Ray Milland were versatile actors who showed perfect chemistry in the film . Both do excellent work guided by the masterful hand of Billy Wilder . Ginger Rogers ' take on the little girl is fine . Of course , we , the viewers , know what is going on , but to the rest of the people she is nothing but the innocent , and young SuSu Applegate . Ray Milland , on the other hand , is proper throughout the film until the end , when the mystery is solved . Mr . Milland's timing is impeccable and he makes his Maj . Kirby a sort of absent minded " uncle " to the young SuSu . Billy Wilder showed a flair for this type of comedy . He got wonderful supporting performances from Rita Johnson and the disarming Diana Lynn , as the two sisters with different viewpoints on everything . Also , the opening sequence involving the incomparable Robert Benchley shows us a lecherous man who has hired the grown up Susan for a scalp treatment , that in his mind will lead into something else . Mr . Benchley and Ms . Rogers are hilarious . This film established Billy Wilder as a director who went far and enjoyed a long career .
Acerbic look at the work place	Mike Judge knows quite well the characters he has gathered in a fairly large office . It could be anywhere in the country . Most of us spend most of our lives doing jobs that are not rewarding and they become a dull routine . In large places , like the one we see in the film , some of the supervising personnel are pompous and love to bully the people under them , which is the case with Bill , the coffee drinking supervisor , who loves to make Peter's life miserable with the petty little details , like not having the reports with the proper cover sheet . Milton , a lonely man , seems to live to go to work . He surrounds himself with the right things to put in his time at the job . One of his prize possessions is the red stapler that the cruel Bill , takes away from him , leaving him sort of naked in the office . There are also Samir and Michael Bolton , the only friends Peter can rely on , especially in the long coffee breaks they must take just after they have arrived at the office . Peter is lost in this milieu until two things happen to him . First , is the therapist that hypnotizes him and then proceeds to drop dead right in front of Peter , leaving him in a state of Nirvana . The other is the appearance of Joanna , the friendly waitress of the restaurant where the friends meet . This young woman is the one that brings Peter out of his shell as he falls for her big time . Joanna , who is made to wear about fourteen different pins in her uniform , is also dissatisfied with her own life until she finds in Peter a kind soul mate . Mike Judge , who wrote and directed this film , presents all these characters without making them stereotypes . We all have known them , in some form , or another , and yes , we can identify to the life they live because we have been exposed to most of these characters in our working lives . Ron Livingston makes Peter a personal triumph . He clearly understood his character and plays it without making a caricature . Jennifer Aniston was another surprise in the film . Her Joanna is one of her best screen work . Stephen Root makes a wonderful Milton , the strange man we have met before in our own life . Gary Cole is perfect as the supervisor without a clue . David Herman and Ajay Naidu are seen as Peter's office pals . We had not seen this film since its release and on second viewing it still holds our interest thanks to the excellent material Mike Judge wrote for the occasion where we see ourselves and our co-workers in the big screen .
The illusive father	When Nathaniel Kahn embarked into this voyage , he hardly knew who his father really was . By the end of the film , he found him and comes to terms with the strange life he lived as a child . Louis Kahn was the father . He was an architect's architect . His designs were perhaps too complex , as he tried to create buildings that didn't conform with trends popular at that time . It is ironic that he never achieved the fame that came so easy to some of his contemporaries . He had a vision and he never strayed from it . We can see characteristics of his unique style in the buildings he left behind as a legacy to humanity . Every one of his creations are unique in that they don't imitate works from other architects . Louis Kahn's life was rather complicated . He was married , yet he had affairs with two of his assistants that produced a girl and a boy , besides the legitimate daughter he had with his wife . As a boy , Nathaniel Kahn's life was lived in a secluded area , away from his father , who only visited late at night . Louis Kahn never recognized these children , although it is very clear they all knew about the others existence . It is tragic that Louis Kahn died alone in Grand Central Station when he was returning from a trip without making peace with the women and children he never acknowledged as his own by his side . He probably cared a great deal about all his children , but he remains an aloof figure throughout the film . We never get to know the man , although at the end , Nathaniel , in his quest to discover his father's life , finds most of the missing pieces of the puzzle . This is a personal account on the life of an artist . Thanks to that son , who has the courage to tell the story , we are almost prying into the lives of Louis Kahn and his extended family .
Celebrating Leonard Cohen	First of all , this documentary focuses on a concert that was a tribute to Leonard Cohen , an artist and a poet that has been influential to countless others . This Sidney concert gathered a lot of talent that came together to celebrate his music . Lian Lunson , an Australian director , has taken the best tracks of the historical presentation that mixes well with the man it's paying homage to . Let the viewer be clear that for a better picture of who this man is and what he has done in his life , it will not be found in this movie . For that , anyone interested in Cohen's life must go somewhere else because of the limitations this medium had . The life of Leonard Cohen is examined briefly as an on camera interview with him at his Los Angeles home . Several biographical bits of information are revealed during that conversation , but of course , it only covers the highlights of his life in sketchy details . One gets to know , for instance , about his early life in Montreal . The death of the father when Cohen was nine . His New York stay , at the legendary Chelsea Hotel , home of the cool people that influenced a whole generation . Then one learns about Mr . Cohen's introduction to Zen Buddism and his becoming a monk . A curious note arises from the lips of Leonard Cohen's lips about being a notorious ladies ' man , something he was always notorious for , and yet , how far from the truth it was . There is also a moment in which the poet reads for our benefit the introduction he prepared for one of his books being translated into Chinese , a culture that always fascinated him . The concert itself is an excellent way to hear Leonard Cohen's songs as others interpret them . Rufus Wainwright sings three numbers to great effect . Antony makes a poignant appearance belting " If It Be Your Will " , all tics and mannerisms , yet making the song seem new . Nick Cave has also two good moments interpreting " I'm Your Man " , and " Suzanne " , two of the songs closely associated with Mr . Cohen . Perla Batalla and Julie Christensen who back up most of the songs , are perfect in " Anthem " . Martha Wainwright's take on " The Traitor " has a different edge when she sings it , yet it's one of the highlights of the evening . The best is left for last . Bono , and Edge , who have been praising Mr . Cohen throughout the film come together to back him as he sings his " Tower of Song " in his own inimitable style . It shows a lot of generosity on his part leaving his own material to be reexamined by a younger generation that clearly loves him . Lian Lunson shows she had the right idea in how to bring the concert into a movie that gives relevance to a man that had it all , Leonard Cohen .
The palace in the mountain	Wind is always blowing throughout the monastery the Servants of God nuns have inherited in a remote part of India . In accepting being in charge of the new place , Sister Clodagh will question her faith as she faces one of the greatest challenges of her life . Michael Powell , working with his usual collaborator , Emeric Pressburger , on the Rumer Godden's novel , created a film that stands the test of time . His achievement is even more incredible as he shot this film in an English studio . The film , brilliantly photographed by Jack Cardiff , one of the best men in the business , and a frequent ally of Mr . Powell , is one of the best pictures of the English cinema . The glorious Technicolor still looks great . " Black Narcissus " questions how some Christians , in this case , nuns of a religious order , can be so blind about things that deviate from what it deems is the right way . When the young General wants to be part of the school the nuns are creating , they reject him , yet , he asks about how would a God , made human in the form of Christ , would respond to his petition . Sister Clodagh is also put in a spot when she wants to get rid of the old man who day after day sits staring at the distant mountains . It's Mr . Dean who challenges her in asking how would her God deal with the old man . Sister Clodagh's past is revealed in flashbacks when she was a young woman and in love with a young man who wanted to emigrate to America and she wasn't ready to follow him . Also , Sister Ruth , who is a rebel , decides to abandon the order because she is in love with Mr . Dean . The highlight of the film is the scene in which Ruth begins applying the deep red lipstick , which makes quite a contrast with her beautiful reddish hair to the horror of Sister Clodagh , who clearly is not prepared for the desertion . There is also an undercurrent between Sister Clodagh and Mr . Dean , who one feels loves her . The nun is too loyal to the principles that made her take the vows . She realizes at the end that while she had the best intentions to transform the place , she is only a human being who suffers a defeat because of her surroundings . Deborah Kerr enjoyed one of the best triumphs of her career with the role of Sister Clodagh . She is seen as a young woman of great beauty and the austere nun she became later in her life . David Farrar is Mr . Dean , the Englishman who is now living in that remote part of India and knows the people well . Kathleen Byron makes an excellent contribution as the rebel Sister Ruth . Flora Robson plays the kind Sister Philippa . Jean Simmons appears as a cruel Indian girl , and Sabu has some interesting moments in the film . This is one of Mr . Powell's best movies in his influential film career . He was one of the most innovative film makers of his generation and it shows well in " Black Narcissus " .
That red dress . .	I recently saw this magnificent film after not having seen it in quite a number of years . William Wyler's extraordinary direction makes this movie a classic that will live forever . Mr . Wyler had at his disposal the best of what his studio could give him . In this film , based on the play by Owen Davis , he was at the top of his form . With the help of the great cinematographer , Ernest Haller and that fabulous costume designer , Orry-Kelly , he gives us a movie that will stand as one of the best of that period melodramas . The great Walter Huston was an assistant director under Wyler . There are some people who have written comments about Jezebel expressing how much better it could have been , had it been done in color . Personally , I don't think so . Just look at the closing scenes of the picture to witness the master camera work of Mr . Haller showing a close up of Ms Davis . The effect of light and shadow is almost comparable to a painting . Bette Davis reacts to the camera with an economy of gestures , and yet , she speaks volumes of what is going on inside her soul . Technicolor would have been the ruin of this film . At the beginning of its invention , this new process was too harsh . The film wouldn't have kept the glorious look it still possesses , had it been shot in color . As far as the red dress being more visible , in sharp contrast with the white costumes of the other young women at the ball , the black and white effect is more dramatic . William Wyler was very lucky with the amazing cast he assembled for the film . Bette Davis and Henry Fonda were at their prime when they appeared in Jezebel . Bette Davis is what holds the film together with her magnetism and star performance . It's almost impossible to think of another actress of that period giving as good a performance , as Ms . Davis ' . There are also people that have compared Jezebel with Gone with the Wind . The only thing they had in common is the fact that both take place in the period before the War between the States , but that's as far as the similarities end . This was a stage play , which by the way , was not very successful when Miriam Hopkins and Tallulah Bankhead appeared in it . This is a film to be treasured thanks to William Wyler .
The swindlers	Federico Fellini followed " La Strada " with this film . A forgotten classic that on second viewing still has the same impact when we saw it at a retrospective of the master's work some time back . Fellini was instrumental in creating this magnificent movie about con men that operated in Italy in the years that followed the end of WWII . Fellini worked on the screen play with his collaborators , Tullio Pinelli and Ennio Flaiano ; they gave life to all these swindlers and made them human . Nino Rota's music and Otello Martinelli's cinematography compliment the film and make it even better . Fellini was a director that got a lot from his actors , as he shows in " Il Bidone " . Working with Broderick Crawford , and again with Richard Basehart , he was able to have both men give excellent performances , especially Mr . Crawford , who looks as though he is nothing but Italian because he convinces us he is the hard man he is portraying . The three friends , Augusto , Picasso , and Roberto , go from one scheme to the next , never thinking about who are they stealing from . The best caper occurs at the beginning of the film as the trio arrives at the farm of the two older women with the promise of riches hidden in their land . Mr . Crawford's bishop is perfect . So is the assistant priest of Richard Basehart . Franco Fabrizi is the driver . The solution for getting the money away from the poor women is something not to be believed . Augusto's life is an empty one . He goes from one job to another trying to outsmart his victims . It's not until Augusto meets his daughter Patrizia by chance , that he begins to feel what might be some remorse for his actions as he notices his beautiful daughter now grown and on her way to making something out of her life . His conscience begins to bother him because he realizes the evil of his ways . The other best sequence in the film involves the party at Vargas ' house where the swindlers have been invited to celebrate the arrival of the new year . We watch as Iris , Picasso's wife , realizes what her husband and the others are really up to . Roberto , the ladies ' man , steals the gold cigarette case , not realizing that he is at the home of another con man and his actions will not go unnoticed , but even the embarrassment he goes through in front of the guests will make him give up his life . " Il Bidone " is a fine example of the Italian cinema of those years as it shows an artist of the caliber of Federico Fellini in top form . The film will delight people that haven't been exposed to that part of Mr . Fellini's career seldom seen these days .
Witty con man .	From the opening credits design we get in the mood of this very entertaining film . They create the tone for what will follow . Steven Spielberg is in rare form directing this movie that doesn't have a dull moment . Mr . Spielberg has found a perfect actor to fill the shoes of the con man with the perfect casting of Leonardo DiCaprio . It's very easy to see why all the women fall prey of this charmer . He was a fast talker and a slick operator . He exudes charisma to fill another couple of movies . It's a welcome sight to have Mr . DiCaprio working in a vehicle that shows his talent as Frank Abagnale , a man of many faces . He plays a game of hide-and-seek throughout the movie with Hanratty , the FBI agent that is in his trail . Tom Hanks shows great assurance and gusto with this character . Of course , the DiCaprio magnetism dominates the action with the many ironic twists and the miraculous and narrow escapes he pulls with an aplomb that's bewildering to the Feds , who are on his tail all the time . The minor roles are equally important . Christopher Walken as the father starts out as the prototype of the con man , but he's too decent to do wrong ; his business fails eventually . His marriage to Natalie Baye , the fine French actress , ends in divorce because obviously she hates being married to a loser . The action doesn't stop for one moment . This film is great fun to watch with the winning combination Mr . Spielberg assured hand gives us this time out . Mr . Spielberg can thank the genial Mr . DiCaprio who responds obviously to his direction and makes this con man endearing even when he is committing crimes .
Broadway baby	Elaine Stritch at Liberty is a splendid documentary about the life of a survivor , who even at this stage of her life , shows she has what it takes to get in front of the public and bare her soul in the process . The documentary centers around her triumphant stage show that played at the Public Theater , and later was transferred to a limited commercial run on Broadway and then to London . The material was conceived by John Lahr and directed for the stage by George C . Wolfe , the amazing man who was in charge of the Public Theater in New York . Rick McKay is given credit as putting it all together in this version that was seen on cable , and it's available on DVD format . Best of all is Ms . Stritch herself . We get to know intimate details about her life , her successes and failures , the men in her life and how the drinking affected her health . To have the courage to go before a public in a play is courageous , but to be Ms Stritch's age , command the stage and charm an audience is something that only great performers can achieve . Thanks for the memories Ms Stritch !
The circle	Not having seen this film in quite some time , we caught with it not long ago in the nicely transferred Criterion DVD . " Le cercle rouge " is a film that owes a lot to other movies , as it keeps reminding us about " Rififi " , " The Asphalt Jungle " , among others , because they all deal with capers that take center stage in the movie and reproduce it in great detail . Unfortunately , one knows that old adage that crime does not pay , and from the start , these men involved in it are doomed from the onset . Jean-Pierre Melville was a director of few words . He didn't fill his pictures with a lot of dialog , as it's the case here . Yet , for not being " talky " , they had a style of their own as proved with " Le Dolous " , " Le Samurai " , and his masterpiece , " Bob le flambeur " , among others . Mr . Melville had a sense of style that comes across in everything he did . In this film , working with his cinematographer , Henri Decae , he takes us along for a ride through the streets of Paris that shows the vibrant city mainly at night and the bleak winter in France . The score is by Eric Demarsan that emphasizes a jazzy music that accompanies most of the action . Although the film shows Alain Delon , as Corey , at the center of the action , it is however , the smart inspector Mattei who is the real hero of the movie . As played by the great Bourvil , he is a man that shows a lot of patience because he has figured from the beginning how to catch Vogel , and in the process he gets involved in the investigation of the jewel heist in which he knows the escaped man he is tailing looms large behind it . Bourvil gives an enormously satisfying performance as Mattei showing equal parts of determination and tenderness , as it's the case with the three cats he adores . Alain Delon always responded with interesting performances his appearances in Mellville's pictures . In here he is Corey , the man who is first seen leaving prison and promising himself he won't go back , but he cannot pass a good thing when he decides to go ahead and participate in the robbery . His association with Vogel and Jansen , pays off in the way they get the job done , but it will also prove a mistake in the way they will not be able to dispose of the loot as the fence they have relied on has a change of heart . Gian Maria Volonte and Yves Montand are seen as Vogel and Jansen , respectively . They were excellent actors who blend well in the action of the film . Both actors were at their best moment when they took the roles in the film and it shows . Mr . Montand has the more complex character to play as we witness him in his first moment in front of the camera as a man with many demons inside his head . Jean-Pierre Mellville got wonderful results from his cast and crew in a film , that although feels a bit longer , but still succeeds in showing his style in one of the most memorable pictures from the director .
Liza at her best	This magnificent film about Liza Minnelli is one of the best films showcasing a popular entertainer at her prime . Bob Fosse directed with a keen eye and great panache . He gets the viewer involved in the performance and what the star is trying to accomplish . The music material by Kander and Ebb never sounded to poignant and fresh , as interpreted by Ms . Minnelli . The late 60s and early 70s brought forth an unusual talent , Liza Minnelli . She was at the time at the best moment of her career . She had a voice , youth , and she could move well , following Bob Fosse's choreography , designed to enhance the presentation . The film has been kept in mint condition and just recently released on cable . Fans of Liza Minnelli can rejoice in rediscovering that vibrant entertainer showing her public why she was a star on her own right .
Nightmare in la-la land	David Lynch's Mulholland Dr . is a rare film that combines the best elements of previous works and gives us a spellbinding picture that keep us riveted to our seats even when there is no action . The combination of the two actresses , Naomi Watts and Laura Elena Harding , produces unexpected results . Nothing is so on the surface , or better yet , appearances are deceiving , to put it mildly . There is a very strange chemistry in the interplay between these two great actresses than in many recent films . It was great fun to see the great Ann Miller in the role of the landlady , Coco . She's a welcome sight in the middle of the mystery that we're trying to decipher with all the clues that Mr . Lynch throws us . It's a shame that the rest of the old familiar faces , like Lee Grant , Robert Forster , Chad Everett , don't get enough time on camera . This strange film was very different from the childish Hollywood fare of late . It's a shame Mr . Lynch doesn't get the chance to give us his vision of his world , which is always welcome by his appreciating fans . A job well done .
Hayao Miyazaki casts his spell on us	The genius of Anime films , Hayao Miyazaki , shows why he is one of an absolute masters of the genre . Taking Diana Wynne Jones ' story " Howl's Moving Castle " and creating the magnificent film for our delight , is something that no other man could have accomplished with as much flair and panache as Mr . Miyazaki has done . The film has such a great look that at times we wonder if one is really seeing an animated film , or not . The images we watch on the screen have such detailed and rich look that we wonder how did Mr . Miyasaki could have accomplished it . Not having seen the Japanese version , the English one that was released here offers great voices to go along with the many characters in the film . The big surprise was Jean Simmons , an actress we haven't see much lately who does a great job with the older Sophie . As the young Sophie , Emily Mortimes is wonderful and her voice suits the character so well . It was also a stroke of genius to have cast Lauren Bacall as the Witch of the Waste , as she seems to be having a great time acting her . Billy Crystal was delightful as Calcifer and Josh Hutcherson is perfect as Markl . Christian Bale is an amazing Howl . In minor roles we hear the voices of Blythe Danner , Crisping Freeman and Jena Malone , among others . This Anime film will delight young and old fans of Hayao Miyazaki who can look forward to a great time at the movies with this film .
Poison pen letters	" Le Courbeau " was Henri-Georges Clouzot's masterpiece . He paid dearly for having been instrumental in bringing it to the screen . At the time it went into production , an occupied France was not the best place to be . Because Clouzot's picture was made through German owned Continental Films , with its distribution rights , proved to cause the opposite effect than what the director wanted . He paid a high price for daring to present his tale about a page of shame in French History . Not only did the left despised this work , but Clouzot was also criticized by the Vichy government of the ultra right . The story takes place in a provincial town where poison pen letters begin appearing all over the place . They are being sent to everyone . The main target of the intrigue points out to one of the doctors in town who is accused of performing illegal abortions as well as carrying on illicit affairs with some of the town's respectable women . The letters destroy lives and reputations without any consideration to the ruined lives along the way . Not having seen this film in years , we must congratulate the Criterion DVD people for the glorious transfer they have done . Nicolas Hayer's crisp black and white cinematography is a joy to watch again . Tony Aubin's music score plays well in the background , complimenting Clouzot's vision . The film is also a joy to watch because of the fabulous performances from this talented cast . Pierre Fresnay makes a wonderful Dr . Remy Germain , the man at the center of the story . Ginette Leclerc , one of the best actresses of the period and Micheline Francey , who plays Laura , make a valuable contribution . Helena Manson seen as Marie Corbin , the hated nurse , does a fine job as well . We recommend any viewer to watch the Criterion DVD to admire Henri-Georges Clouzot masterpiece that speaks volumes about human beings at a trying time of their lives .
Broadway bound	Christopher Guest has the knack for creating films where genuine laughter never stops . We saw this film when it was originally released , but caught it recently in the retrospect of Mr . Guest's films shown recently here . " Waiting for Guffman " is , to this humble viewer , probably his best creation to date . Not only is this a funny movie , it shows the genius of Mr . Guest at his best . Corky St . Clair , the director from the New York stage seems completely out of place in Blaine , Mo . He is too witty for that small little town , where he is clearly adored , not only by the local thespians , but by the whole municipal council . Some of the lines one hears coming from Corky's mouth are so amazing that one wonders if the citizens of Blaine fully realize they have a gem living in town . The players auditioning for Corky's new production about Blaine's beginnings , live in a world of themselves . Ron and Sheila Albertson , are the star of other productions , so they return again for the new show . Libby Mae Brown works in the Dairy Queen , but her ambition is to be a star . Even the local dentist , Dr . Allan Pearl , is attracted to become a performer . There are two other underlying plots going on in the film . There is the history part , or how Blaine came to be , and the other notorious incident of the flying saucer that came into town and took several of the citizens for a tour of the space craft and we are being told about it by the people that experienced that adventure . Christopher Guest makes a wonderful Corky St . Clair . Mr . Guest knows what makes Corky great . Corky , no doubt , is a composite of people Mr . Guest must have known at one time or another . Corky is an enormous achievement for Mr . Guest as a writer and as a performer . Fred Willard and Catherine O'Hara are incredible in their take of the Albertsons , the travel agents without a clue of what's going on outside Blaine . Ron's delicate operation is explained in some detail to the horrified Mrs . Pearl . Eugene Levy , Mr . Guest's frequent collaborator is right on the money as the dentist with singing aspirations . Parker Posey , is the girl who thinks Broadway is only a few steps away . Paul Dooley , Don Lake , Larry Miller , Linda Kash , are among the citizens of Blaine one gets to know in the film . Of course , none of this would have been possible without Christopher Guest . It's a shame we don't get to see more of him , but that makes even better whatever he decides to offer us from time to time .
Chilly scenes of winter	The death of an influential figure can take its toll on an impressionable young person , even years after the tragedy happened . Such is the case with the aimless Duncan Shorter , a young man who has not lived up to his potential . After his father died , ten years ago , he has been restless , dropping out from school and losing jobs constantly . On the other hand , for Jacob , his other sibling , the loss of his father didn't affect his life the same way ; he went on to make something of himself , but he loses his priorities as he continues to have extra marital affairs . Duncan's grandfather Ronald , suffering from Parkinson's disease , has moved into Minneapolis with his wife Ruth . Duncan goes to visit one day and finds employment in the building as a handyman . Duncan , who loves his grandfather , bonds with the old man . Ronald doesn't appear to be getting better , as Kate , the friendly physical therapist , tells him . The young woman has a case of wanderlust as she is never stays in one place for much time . It's easy to see how Duncan and Kate are attracted to one another as they develop an easy relationship . When Kate is told about an opportunity in San Diego , where she will be house sitting for a year , rent free , she jumps at the opportunity . Duncan is not keen in leaving Minneapolis where his family and friends are , and where he thinks he belongs . This surprising film , directed by James Burke , was a surprise . Mr . Burke gives the movie an immediacy and reality like no other mainstream films in quite a while . Based on the screen play by Brent Boyd , the film tackles important issues without much effort . The way he presents Ronald Shorter and how his illness affects him and those around him , is one of the best ways how the Mr . Burke succeeds . Compare the way the director and the writer deal with a man afflicted with Parkinson's that makes a film like Nike Cassavetes " The Notebook " treatment of Alzheimer's disease appear phony from beginning to end . Having known first hand the devastating effects of this tragic disease , our heart went after what Ronald Shorter has been dealt by life . Having admired the work of Joshua Jackson for quite some time , didn't prepare us for his intense performance as Duncan . This young actor is a joy to watch because he never makes a false move , he is always a welcome presence in any film . The excellent Donald Sutherland is worth the prize of admission . His Ronald Shorter is hard to watch , but this exactly what a person at this stage of the disease looks and acts like . Mr . Sutherland gets better and better each time one sees him . Juliette Lewis gives an easy going portrayal of Kate , the restless woman in search of adventure , who is not quite ready for anything until Duncan happens to come along . Luise Fletcher and Steven Pasquale give also appealing performances . The musical score by Michael Danna and the winter landscape of Minneapolis of Alan Kivilo contribute to add another layer in this film . Ultimately , James Burke ought to be congratulated for bringing all the elements together into this wonderful slice of life of a film .
An extraordinary life	We never saw this documentary when it came out . In a tribute to Katherine Hepburn , TCM showed it , as part of the daily festivity . Director David Heeley , who also co-wrote the material with Ms . Hepburn , clearly demonstrate an impeccable taste in what he carefully picked to show us . Katherine Hepburn was a woman ahead of her times . She had a sense of self and her own style , something that came to her naturally . Ms . Hepburn was an actress who knew what seemed to suit her talent as we witness in all the movies she graced with her presence . We are given clips from her films , as well as a tour of her Connecticut home and her surroundings . Also , in the documentary , we see some comments by her peers that speak volumes as to what extent she was admired by the people that came in contact with her . And , yes , she was opinionated , and didn't care to express her views , as she stuck by her principles . Yes , it certainly was a privileged life .
I could have been somebody . . .	Elia Kazan's film is still amazing after 50 years . It's curious how it parallels Kazan's own life in the way the main character , Terry Malloy , ends up naming names to the commission investigating the corruption on the waterfront , the same way the director did in front of the HUAC committee , presided by the evil Senator Joe McCarthy and his henchman , Roy Cohn . Bud Schulberg's screen play is his best work for the movies . It also helped that Elia Kazan had a free reign over the film , which otherwise could have gone wrong under someone else's direction . Terry Malloy , as we see him first , is a man without a conscience . He is instrumental in ratting on a fellow longshoreman , who is killed because he knows about the criminal activities on the piers . At the same time , Terry is transformed and ultimately redeems himself because he falls in love with Edie Doyle , the sister of the man that is killed by the mob . Terry Malloy is a complex character . His own brother Charley , is the right hand man of Johnny Friendly , the union boss . Charley is trying to save Terry . It's clear that Charley is going to be sacrificed because of the way he is acting by the same people he works with . In a way , the death of young Doyle is paid back with Charley's own , an interesting twist of events , when it should have been Terry the one that had ratted in the first place . Marlon Brando had his best opportunity here . Everyone lavished praise for his performance . I don't know whether it was me , or what , but the way he played Terry , at times , is an enigma . Could it be the way he speaks ? The taxi scene , when he speaks in his famous line , his voice sounds so out of character . Maybe it was Brando's take on the character , but in retrospect , he doesn't sound like a New York wise guy . Eva Marie Saint , whose made her debut in the cinema in this movie , is excellent as the sweet Edie . It's incredible she stays with Terry even though he's been instrumental in the death of her own brother . She is obviously in love with Terry and will do anything for him . Karl Malden's character is also symbolic . He represents the sanity and the salvation for an otherwise horrible person , because Terry up to this point has no conscience and he is resentful for the fact he never got to be somebody when he had a chance in the boxing ring . Lee J . Cobb , one of the great actors of the American movies gives a detailed performance as Johnny Friendly , the boss of the union local that controlled the waterfront . Rod Steiger , as the crooked brother Charley was amazing . There are a lot of minor roles such as Martin Balsam , who went to bigger and better things . Also , a non speaking Fred Gwynne who is part of Friendly's crew . This films owes a great deal to the black and white cinematography of Boris Kaufman and to the great musical score of Leonard Bernstein . Was it me , or was this film an inspiration for the music he later composed for West Side Story ? One of the greatest films of all times .
Birds of a feather . . . .	Bodega Bay is a peaceful community in Northern California . Melanie Daniels has come to this small town trying to outsmart Mitch Brenner , the man who she had met previously at a San Francisco pet shop . Little does Melanie know what she is in for ! The first indication everything is not right happens as Melanie , who is returning to the town in a small motor boat , is hit by a flying gull . Mitch , who has followed her , comes to her rescue . Melanie is invited to have dinner that night with Mitch and his family in the house across the bay . Right after dinner , they get a surprise visit through the chimney , when hundreds of birds descend on the Brenner's living room to create panic among them . Melanie , who has met the young teacher , Annie Hayworth , before going to the Brenners , asks her to put her up for the night , since there are no other accommodations in town and she has been invited to attend a party for Cathy , Mitch's young sister . During the celebration , more gulls and even black crows , decide to pay them a visit that upsets the festivity . Right after that , everything turns loose in the small town . The birds are relentless in their attack ; it's clear they intend to get their revenge . " The Birds " is one of the scariest films by the master of suspense , Alfred Hitchcock . For the time it was filmed , it proved to be a ground breaking movie of this genre . After more than forty years since its release , the film still delivers because Hitchcock knew how to scare his audience even with the innocent gulls and crows that turn into evil creatures bent on destruction of everything in their wake . In a way , it's ironic , as Mrs . Bundy , a woman who knew her birds explains to the people in the local restaurant , only birds of a specie flock together , never mixing with another type . Also , the vengeful birds are seen in contrast with the tamed love birds Melanie has brought , as a present , for Mitch . The film works because of the genius of Hitchcock . Tippi Hedren is a perfect Hitchcock's " blonde " . Rod Taylor is also effective as Mitch . Jessica Tandy , though , has the best moments to show her range . She goes from the stern Lydia at the beginning to one of an infinite kind when she realizes Melanie loves her son . Suzanne Pleshette is also good as Annie Hayworth . Ethel Griffies makes a wonderful Mrs . Bundy , a no-nonsense woman who can't believe sea gulls could be hurting people , at all . " The Birds " is an entertaining film that will be cherished by many Hitchcock's fans because of all the elements that went into it .
Trapped	A journalist from New York , Chuck Tatum , ends up in Albuquerque working for a local newspaper . He is a defeated man who has failed miserably because of his hard drinking , among other things . But his luck is about to change . After being sent to report on a rattle snake contest , he stumbles on a tragic situation where a miner has been trapped in an abandoned silver mine . Tatum recognizes the value of the situation as a news item that will , not only sell papers , but will , perhaps , give him the chance to make it big in the field he knows well . He risks his own life in going into the mine to interview Leo Minosa . In order to do that , he joins forces with the corrupt local sheriff Kretzer , who is game for what the deal will mean to his status in the community . In exchange for his efforts , he wants to be the exclusive rights to the situation . Tatum meets the miner's wife , a one time saloon girl , Lorraine , who Leo rescued from an uncertain life and brought her to the family's restaurant in the dusty desert area . Lorraine sees an opportunity to flee the scene , something that she has done before , but Chuck Tatum wants her as part of the scheme he has plotted in his mind . When the human story hits the airwaves , it finds a captive audience . Soon , all curiosity seekers descend on the area next to the mine to witness whatever happens . Instead of using conventional methods , Chuck decides to " milk " the situation by not doing what reason dictates must be done . He decides to direct the drilling from the top , a process that will delay the rescue operation , but will give Tatum a chance to gain the notoriety he seeks , at the expense of the man pinned down in the mine . This film , directed by the great Billy Wilder , is one of his finest efforts in Hollywood . Yet , the film didn't find an audience , unlike the one attracted within the film . Written in collaboration by Mr . Wilder , Lesser Samuels and Walter Newman , the screenplay is one of the most ambitious in the director's distinguished career . He knew exactly where he wanted to know , using as a theme the manipulation of the news by people that only want to show sensationalism , at the expense of a human suffering . Kirk Douglas had one of his finest moments in the movies with his Chuck Tatum . He knew exactly what the public wanted and he gives it to them . In a way , he was a great impresario , setting the scene for the curious to come to the show to be on the front row to witness the suffering and pain Leo Minosa was experiencing . Jan Sterling , who plays Lorraine , matches Mr . Douglas all the way . She could see inside the man who didn't care about a husband that she was going to abandon , anyway . The rest of the cast does a fine job . Charles Lang's cinematography captures in vivid detail the carnival atmosphere that is at the center of the film . His camera angles enhance the film tremendously . Hugo Friedhofer provided the musical score that blended perfectly with the action . Arthur Schmidt editing works well . Ultimately this was a Billy Wilder film that will stay in the viewer's memory for quite a long time .
The lobbyst	Nick Baylor is a tobacco lobbyst in Washington . His work is to influence people in Congress about his product : cigarettes . Never mind the usage has long been considered bad for anyone that uses it , Nick will debate anyone and will always have an answer that will make his opponents appear as though they are the bad guys . That is the case when Nick is seen on a talk show , where he sits next to a young man afflicted with cancer caused from smoking , who at the end of the show will have a different opinion of the industry that made him sick . Or take the presentation Nick makes to his son Joey's career day class . When the young girl tells him that her mom says smoking is bad for you , Baylor questions her if her mother is a doctor to have arrived at that conclusion . Baylor's great idea is to try to enlist Hollywood into letting big stars be seen smoking on whatever movies they appear . He presents the idea to a powerful Jeff Megall , an insider man , who is willing to go along for the right price . Nick Baylor is the ultimate salesman . After all , he and his employer have enormous resources to pay the right people in order to get their message across . Nick Baylor loves his son , who now lives with his mother . Nick wants to teach his son a valuable lesson , so that he can fully appreciate what he does for a living . The result is a young boy that begins to see his father side and how the truth , as is perceived , can be manipulated by anyone with the right contacts with people in government . Jason Reitman's adaptation of Christopher Buckley's enormously funny satire about the role of the lobbyst in our society is one of the best films about this subject that have been brought to the screen . Mr . Reitman clearly understands how power and money make a heady combination in the way he presents the story . It's hard to imagine anyone else but Aaron Eckhart playing Nick Baylor . Mr . Eckhart is never obnoxious , or overbearing . His Nick is a man who knows what moves people to do the things they do and has no scruples in getting them done . Cameron Bright , is seen as Nick's son Joey . This young actor was the perfect choice also , because he brings an uncanny intelligence to whatever role he is asked to play . The rest of the ensemble cast do well under Mr . Reitman's direction , with great contributions by Maria Bello , William H . Macy , Rob Lowe , Adam Brody , Robert Duvall , Katie Holmes and the rest . " Thanks for Smoking " shows a new talented director , Jason Reitman , working with an excellent Aaron Eckhart to great results in a movie that will not disappoint .
The blonde beauty	Jacques Becker's " Casque d'or " is a fine example of the best in the French cinema . At times , this splendid 1954 film , keeps reminding us about paintings of the impressionist school , especially Renoir , because it takes us back to that era . In fact , the beginning of the film almost gives the impression we are witnessing characters that inspired the painters of that art movement . " Casque d'or " is enhanced by the magnificent black and white photography of Robert Lefevbre who has a poetic way to get the best of what M . Becker intended him to do . The atmospheric music of Georges Van Parys takes the viewer back to those places one has seen in different paintings of that era . The lovely young woman at the center of the picture , Marie , gets taken with Manda the moment he enters the country restaurant where she is seen with some of the petty criminals she is friendly with . One realizes this is a passion that is not meant to be from the start . Marie belongs to one of the Felix Leca's gang . When Roland senses his girl has an eye for another man , he wants to take get rid of him . Georges Manda has also been to jail , but now is a carpenter and trying to go straight . Fate is not kind to Manda , who , when provoked , reveals he is not to be made a fool . Leca , who is also quite smitten by Marie's beauty plans to get rid of Manda so he can have the blonde woman all to himself . Leca , who knows his way around the law , and is friendly with the police , will prove to be Manda's undoing . What Jacques Becker achieved with this film was to create the right atmosphere to set his story . Working in France he had the access to the great movie locations one sees in the movie . The film evokes that period convincingly . The director adds touches , that even when watched today , are a delight to watch . M . Becker got good performances out of his cast . Simone Signoret at that point of her life was at her prime . Her Marie is a fine example of what she was able to project without much effort . Her beauty is evident and she plays Marie with elegance . Serge Reggiani plays Manda with conviction . M . Reggiani covered quite a lot of ground in the French cinema . Aside from his good looks , he was an accomplished actor and singer . His contribution to our enjoyment of the film made " Casque d'or " to be a classic it became . Claude Dauphin is Felix Leca , the unscrupulous man in love with Marie who will stoop so low in order to get the woman that he wouldn't have otherwise . M . Dauphin conveys the evil in Felix Leca with an economy that works well in his portrayal of this sophisticated monster . Finally , this is Jacques Becker's triumph . " Casque d'or " is one of the best films of all times .
Calling Johnny Gossamer to action	The immensely likable novel " Bodies are where you find them " , written by Brett Halliday , has been adapted for the screen by Shane Black and the result is one of the funniest movies playing around . " Kiss Kiss Bang Bang " boasts an amazing dialog with some of the wittiest lines of any film in recent memory . The film pays a tremendous bonus to fans of the genre , which combines a detective story technique with some amusement and irony thrown in . The result is a fun time at the movies . Mr . Halliday pays tribute to those forgotten cheap pulp fiction novels that were so popular at one time in this country . The director has to be congratulated for combining the talents of two actors that pay off in unexpected ways . Robert Downey Jr . , one of the best film actors , is paired in this movie with Val Kilmer , who tends to play heavy roles , but has never been seen as he is shown in the movie . Both these men compliment one another in ways we didn't expect . The chemistry between them seems to indicate these two actors had a lot of fun while making the film , as it shows in the way they play against one another . Lovely Michelle Monaghan is seen as Harmony , a beautiful young hopeful working her way up in Hollywood . Also in the cast Corbin Bernsen , who is seen as Harlan Dexter . Larry Miller has a few brief moments in the picture . " Kiss Kiss Bang Bang " is a witty and intelligent film . Thanks to its director , Shane Black , it's a film to be treasured .
Hypocrites in heaven	This film from Mexico , based on a novel by Portuguese author , Eca de Queiroz , was a surprise . It shows what a talented director , Carlos Carrera , can create with the material and the cast assembled to play it . Credit has to go to the scenario written by Vicente Leeros , adapting the original material and bringing the action to present day rural Mexico . The turmoil within the Catholic church is in the headlines of the media and this story deals with the hypocrisy of father Amaro in not practicing what the church wants him to teach these poor people . Instead of presenting the priest as a pedophile , it shows us this man as a normal person with an obsession for a beautiful young woman who is attracted to him as well . Poor Amalia , the young woman , in the story , she is repeating what her own mother is doing on the sly with the older priest , father Benito , something that young father Amaro gets to know as soon as he arrives in the small town he has been assigned to serve . In many rural areas of Latin America these men have been known to develop entanglements such as the one we see with father Benito and Amelia's mother , La Sanjuanera . After the mutual attraction comes out of the surface , father Amaro thinks of nothing about seducing Amelia against his better judgment . His is a passion that can't be stopped ; it will prove the younger's priest downfall . Gael Garcia Bernal is an excellent actor , as he has demonstrated in Amores Perros and Y tu mama tambien . He goes surprising us from one film to the next in that he's always believable ; he never makes a false move , or strike a wrong note . Had he been an actor in the USA , he would have been a household face by now . Obviously , he makes very good choices getting involved in the right films . The rest of the cast is very effective . Sancho Garcia as father Benito is very good . Ana Claudia Talancon has a lovely face . Her Amelia is all trust and love for a man that wasn't worthy of her . The ending where father Amaro is celebrating mass sends a shiver of fear as we realize that he is remorseless of what he has done and will have no one to answer for his crime . He will probably go to bigger and better things since the church , obviously has prepared him to be what he is : a hypocrite and a coward !
Carefree in Manhattan	This immensely funny comedy , which we had seen years ago , popped up suddenly on cable . It was just a reminder of those innocent years of New York in the 50s . It shows what a great director , George Cukor , working with a frequent collaborator , Garson Kanin , can do as they bring magic to Manhattan . New York is a magnet for people with dreams and ambitions that come to the city to make their name known , as is the case of Gladys Glover , a transplant from upstate that hasn't yet made her mark in Gotham . It doesn't take long before Gladys is a minor celebrity because of her name being plastered all over town in billboards that only show her name . There's a funny scene that takes place in Macys where Gladys had gone shopping with Pete Sheppard . She's buying towels that are on sale for 54 cents ! Oh , and there are others for 64 cents ! When she gives her name to the sales lady , the woman immediately realizes she has a celebrity in her department because she can see Gladys ' name through an open window ! Talk about logic , Mr . Kanin , or even Mr . Cukor , probably never set foot on the Herald Square store : there are no windows in any of the big Manhattan department stores ! The brilliant Judy Holliday makes this picture her own . She was such an accomplished comedienne that she could do anything and outshine anyone near her . It's a shame this funny lady's life was cut short of an impressive career in the stage and in movies . Ms . Holliday was an actress who brought a lot of joy to any of the roles she undertook , as proved here ; we don't doubt for a moment she is Gladys because she acts without any effort . Jack Lemmon , in his first movie , is also very likable as the documentary photographer , Pete Sheppard , who can't help himself falling in love with Gladys . Mr . Lemmon showed his huge talent from the beginning . Playing opposite Ms . Holliday must have been the answer to any aspiring young actor starting in films . He was also a natural who could do anything at all on the stage and later in his long years in front of the camera . Watching this film is like taking a nostalgic trip to the New York of that era .
Strangers on a train	Alfred Hitchcock's " North by Northwest " is one of the best films in his long and distinguished career . Part of the success of the movie lies in the screen play by Ernest Lehman , one of the best writers of that era . Also , the haunting music by Mr . Hitchcock's usual collaborator , Bernard Hermann , adds texture to what we are seeing . Together with all the above mentioned qualities , " North by Northwest " was photographed by Robert Burks and was edited by George Tomasini , both men did outstanding jobs to enhance a film that shows a mature and inspired Alfred Hitchcock . The film works because of the witty dialog Mr . Lehman wrote . This has to be one of the riskiest projects undertaken by Mr . Hitchcock because of the sexiness Eva Kendall exudes throughout the film and the repartee between her and Roger Thornhill . The film mixes adventure and romance that aren't put ons , as one feels what one's watching to be really happening . Much has been said in this forum as to the values of this classic , so we shall only add our pleasure in seeing this masterpiece any time it turns on cable . In fact , the film hasn't dated , the way some others of the same period have . The highlights of the film are the sequences involving the crop duster , the train ride to Chicago where Eve and Roger first meet , the auction , and the Mount Rushmore climax . This is one of the best contributions by Cary Grant to any of his work with the director . Roger Thornhill is one of the best roles Mr . Grant played , during his long career . His chemistry with Eva Marie Saint is perfect . This young actress added class and elegance to the picture . James Mason and Martin Landau played villains convincingly . Jesse Royce Landis , Leo G . Carroll , and the rest of the supporting cast is excellent . " North by Northwest " is one of Alfred Hitchcock's best crafted films thanks to the brilliant people that came together to work in it .
Seniors in the sun	We must confess , right at the start , we went to see this movie reluctantly . Judging by the trailers we saw prior to going to watch it , we didn't have much expectation , but we can categorically say we had a marvelous time watching , and laughing out loud , at this wonderful Susan Seidelman's picture that really deserves to be seen by a wider audience . We are taken to that senior's paradise that is Florida . Unfortunately , the most careful planning doesn't include death , something that is a sad reality a few of the principals in the movie have to deal with . Most of the people that transfer to that state after their retirement buy all these fabulous places after being in the Northern parts of the country , running away from the cold and the harsh winters . Marilyn , a happily married woman , experiences the horror of her husband being killed by a careless selfish neighbor , who obviously has no remorse , other than tell her problems to her shrink . Marilyn has to start to learn how to live alone , something she has not counted on . We see her walking to the Bereavement Center by herself , since she has no license to drive , while perhaps a lot of her neighbors , in her possibly " gated community " zip by in their cars . Then there is Jack , a recent widower . He is a pathetic man who has relied on his wife Phyllis for everything . Without her , he is condemned to eating at the ubiquitous diners all over the place where seniors get discounts before a certain hour , perhaps before 5pm ! When he meets the bold Sandy , he is doubtful he will ever again find love with another woman . Harry , on the other hand , is a party animal . In spite of thinking he is a sophisticated man , he falls for a woman he meets on line that turns out too good to be true . Lois , a youthful looking woman , is knocked out of her " boots " by the hunky Donald , a man that is not all he appears to be , but in the end , turns out to be the right man for Lois , and vice versa . Susan Seidelman supposedly based this film on personal experiences of relatives living in that environment . She adapted the material Florence Seidelman and David Cramer told her out of their own experiences into a film that bites deep into what how loneliness works when long time married people have to face an uncertain future . Even though it's a funny comedy , " Boynton Beach Bereavement Club " reveals under its glossy surface how hard it is to live in all these professionally decorated dream houses when a wife , or a husband is not around anymore . The surviving spouse must face that solitude head on . The director got excellent acting from her ensemble players . All do a marvelous job . Brenda Vaccaro , who has not been seen a lot lately , gets a great opportunity as Marilyn . As her friend , and confidant , Dyan Cannon is wonderful . Sally Kellerman , has a couple of great moments as Sandy , the woman who has not come clean to the new man in her life . Len Cariou , who appears as Jack , makes an impression , as does Joseph Bologna , the party animal . Michael Nouri is Donald , the man who is not who Lois thinks he is . Renee Taylor appears briefly in the film . Ms . Seidelman ought to be congratulated in the way she created all these characters that are real and reflect a section of the population that went through so much in their lives and when they thought the golden years were here to stay , must make a tremendous adjustment and learn to live again on their own .
The myth and the woman	TCM has to be congratulated by the magnificent documentary about Greta Garbo it presented recently . As directed by Kevin Brownlow , the film concentrates in presenting a balanced portrait of one of the strongest personalities that graced the screen during the XX Century : Greta Garbo . The narration by Julie Christie , is excellent . " Garbo " presents a vivid picture of the mythical figure of Greta Garbo , from her humble origins , to the height of her fame , to the years of oblivion . One thing that comes clear in the film is that contrary to what one might think , Ms . Garbo was not a recluse , on the contrary , she filled her days roaming the streets of her adopted city , New York . The director is to be commended in that he takes us everywhere , covering the life of the actress . He even takes us where no one else has dared to go , Greta Garbo's inner sanctum , the apartment where she lived on the upper east side of Manhattan . We get glimpses of how the great Garbo lived in her elegant place overlooking the East River , where we see some of the paintings she collected . For a woman with humble origins , Ms . Garbo deserves a lot of credit for making herself the exquisite figure she became . One has to put oneself in her shoes to realize that she just wanted to live like anyone else did , shunning the limelight and being the down to earth woman she was . Some of the people interview in the film , like her several family members , the great Clarence Brown , who directed her in some of her best films , George Cukor , and Charles Busch expand on what really comes across that she was an honest human being who had her feet on the ground and had no pretensions or vanity . Her glamorous past was history and all she wanted was to stay away from all the glitter . Congratulations to Kevin Brownlow for his perceptive take on the woman and the myth .
See Lola run	Tom Tykwer's clever " Run Lola Run " showed up on cable the other day . We had seen it when it first came out , and frankly , watching it for a second time , it seemed even better than the last time . Mr Tykwer made an excellent impression with this film , which introduced us to this talented director . Having seen " Heaven " , and " True " , " Lola rennt " is by far a superior effort from Mr . Tykwer . The premise of the film is a clever one . Lola , in twenty minutes , must solve the mystery in which she is drawn into . At each of this situations , Lola shows great resources about how to help her petty criminal boyfriend , who has lost 100 , 000 DM , and now must account for the missing money . Franka Potente is the main reason why this movie works the way it does . She is almost like the cartoon character one sees in the opening credits . Lola , is larger than life , and shows she can do anything she wants because of her resolve . Ms . Potente brings freshness to the role and she totally captivates the viewer in her no-nonsense approach to life , in general . The supporting cast does good work under Mr . Tykwer's direction . It's a puzzle why Hollywood hasn't made an attempt to remake this film , since the Americans are obsessed with redoing material like " Run Lola Run " . Let's hope they don't try !
A woman in love	Anna Karenina seems to have been tailor-made for Greta Garbo to play . Ms . Garbo was always cast in these types of role that demanded a great woman's presence . Leo Tolstoy's magnificent novel is adapted with the emphasis on Anna , because the massive book , it probably took a lot of skill to adapt it for the screen . Clarence Brown , the director , was a man who was instrumental in guiding Ms . Garbo's American career in the movies . First , as a cinematographer , then as a director , Mr . Brown , obviously , got the respect and confidence of his star , as it's clearly shown in the film . Technically , this was a film that was well crafted . In fact , after seventy years it still has a crisp look , as shown in the great DVD version of the film . The great cinematography by William Daniels shows why this genius behind the camera was one of the best in the business . The splendor of the sets and the art direction by Cedric Gibbons added a rich texture to what comes out on the screen . As Anna , Ms . Garbo does excellent work . As a matter of fact , her style shows some restraint as she doesn't go into those large gestures to punctuate a situation on a scene . The only thing that detracts from the film is Frederic March's Vronsky . While he was one of the best actors of his time , in here he is not as effective as in the rest of his screen work . In fact , their romance could have played differently had another actor been cast as the man who conquers Anna's heart . The other principal roles are well played by a wonderful company that MGM put together to support the star . Basil Rathbone is perfect as Karenin , the dark figure in the novel . Freddie Bartholomew , the child actor , has some lovely moments when he is seen playing opposite Ms . Garbo . In fact , those scenes show well Anna's tender side , something that is in sharp contrast with what she ends up doing , abandoning this lovely child . Reginald Owen , one of the best character actors of the era is seen as Stiva with great charm . Maureen O'Sullivan is Kitty . " Anna Karenina " is a film that will live forever because the combination of Greta Garbo's appeal and the great director Clarence Brown that understood her so well .
Gelsomina and Zampano	" La Strada " established Federico Fellini as one of the best Italian directors . Working with his usual collaborator , Tulio Pinelli , the master created a human story that is still , as fresh today , as when it opened . The fantastic musical score by Nino Rota gives the film an elegance that transcend the poor background of the people one sees in the movie . Also , the crisp black and white photography by Otelo Martelli enhances our enjoyment . This could be considered Fellini's first masterpiece . His previous work was , of course , excellent , but with " La Strada " , he proves he has an amazing understanding of the characters he presents to us . It is almost as though , he had known these people all his life , and just decided to incorporate them in a movie . This is a film that showed an Italy that had suffered a defeat during WWII . Italy was struggling to heal itself from the horrible times they had lived during the conflict and what the director and his collaborators show us is an impoverished country trying to cope with the new reality . La Strada " is a film about the suffering and hard times the citizens had gone through , but also shows hope . Zampano , the brutish street performer , is a man that shows no redeeming qualities . He comes back to the beach shack where Rosa's mother and siblings live to tell them about her death . Watching the young and innocent Gelsomina , he figures he has found a substitute for the act . Zampano is a misogynistic man who only cares about his pleasure , not paying any attention to the needs of the young woman who is not street wise . The film , in a way , is Fellini's type of ' road movie ' because we are taken along the byways of the country , before the construction of the super highways , to witness Zampano as he practices his trade from town to town . Gelsomina soon catches on , and in her heart she believes Zampano is , in his own way , the man for her . Unfortunately , Zampano leaves Gelsomina whenever a new woman strikes his fancy . He uses Gelsomina as a slave . When they meet Il Matto , the good natured tight wire artist , Zampano notices how Gelsomina responds to this kind soul . Il Matto , in spite of what he feels about Zampano , advises Gelsomina to stay with him . A fatal judgment it proves to be . Tragedy arrives when Zampano and Gelsomina run into Il Matto on the road . This incident unravels Zampano as he begins a spiral descent into hell because his conscience doesn't let him have peace , and in turn , Gelsomina , makes sure to let him know she knows the immensity of what he has done . Zampano in abandoning Gelsomina thinks he has solved all his problems , but a few years later he comes across a young woman who is humming the song that Gelsomina used to sing . In fact , we learn what happened to the sweet girl , and we are shocked and saddened . Zampano , who seems to be a man without any feeling , upon learning this walks away , but his guilt gets the best of him and we watch him as he breaks down as the film comes to an end . Anthony Quinn had one of the best moments of his long and distinguished career with Zampano . His understanding of this cruel man makes the film work the way it does . Mr . Quinn's interpretation of the street performer is real and we can see what kind of man he really is . Our perception of this man , who has led us to believe he has a heart of stone changes at the end when we see his breakdown . Giulietta Masina is perfect as Gelsomina . This actress , married to Mr . Fellini , had an uncanny way of transforming herself into the young and naive woman and makes her come alive . Gelsomina personifies all the best qualities any person could aspire to have . It comes naturally for her to be good ; Gelsomina doesn't have malice and is a grown up child in many ways . Richard Basehart has some good moments in the film as Il Matto . In fact , Fellini elicited a great performance from this actor , who took a big gamble accepting the challenge that his character demanded from him . Mr . Basehart proved he was an extraordinary actor and it shows in this film . " La Strada " is a film that will live forever thanks to the man who had the vision to bring it to the screen : Federico Fellini !
Deadly fiction	Marc Forster , a man whose work we have admired before , has scored a major triumph with " Stranger Than Fiction " . It helps he decided to tackle the amazing screen play that Zach Helm wrote for this project . Both men show to compliment one another in a winning film that unfortunately suffered at the box office . It's hard to imagine how the movie didn't attract more people because it deserves a viewing from anyone that considers to be a cinema fan . Part of the blame seems to be the perception that the lead actor , Will Farrell , was expected to deliver a character that was funny like most of the ones he had given in other vehicles . Harold Crick is a man so meticulous he even counts the brush strokes he applies to his teeth every time he cleans them . He seems to be the right person for an IRS inspector . He is a joyless man whose life is numbers and audits . He has an incredible mind for multiplication , and yet , why is his life the mess it is ? When Harold begins hearing the voice that seems to be narrating his life , he unravels . Harold decides to consult experts to try to help him getting to the bottom of what he is experiencing . Alas , the professionals he consults , never can give him an answer . It's only when he stumbles into a university professor who , upon hearing a phrase Harold has heard in his mind , to interest Prof . Hilbert to come to aid him . It is at this time that one gets to realize that Harold Crick is a character out of the fiction of a reclusive writer , Karen Eiffel , a woman whose distinction is the ability to kill all her main characters in the novels she writes . The problem is that Karen is suffering from an acute problem of writer's block . In fact , she doesn't know how to kill this Harold Crick , who becomes her obsession . Karen Eiffel's life is a mess . Not even when Penny Escher comes to help her get out of her rut can she get out of her funk . Harold , who finds himself losing the control he has always possessed , is rendered helpless when he goes to do an audit on Ana Pacal , a young woman who owes the IRS and refuses to file a return . Little by little , Harold comes to depend on his meetings with Ana , who in turn , sees all the goodness in the man she started hating . It's when Harold discovers he has found love that he decides to fight for his life and decides to confront the woman who seems to be pulling the strings that make him be who he is . Will Farrell makes a wonderful contribution to the film . Like other comic actors , Mr . Farrell has to play against type in order to show his talent . This versatile actor should play more serious roles and break out of the mold his career was up to this point . Emma Thompson's Karen Eiffel is one of her best creations . She captured the world in which the author she portrays inhabits . Dustin Hoffman adds another layer of texture to the film with his Professor Hilbert . Maggie Gylenhaal seems to be a natural for the sunny Ana Pascal . Queen Latifah plays Penny Escher effortlessly . She's a marvelous addition in any film . Others seen in minor roles are Linda Hunt and Tom Hulce who do wonders with their small contributions . Roberto Schaefer's cinematography offers a wonderful view of the Chicago where the film is supposed to take place . Ultimately it's Marc Forster for bringing all the elements together in this sunny and positive film .
The paleontologist and the socialite	Howard Hawks , the director of " Bringing Up Baby " , was not a name one associates with screwball comedy . Watching this perennial favorite the other night , one wishes Mr . Hawks would have made more comedies like this one because he shows a tremendous capacity for entertaining his audiences . The screen treatment , by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde , made this movie the classic it became to be after not being embraced by the public when it was originally released . The pairing of Cary Grant and Katherine Hepburn paid off handsomely . Both actors were at their best in the film . Mr . Hawks got excellent performances of his two stars . Cary Grant's paleontologist , with his glasses , and nervous energy , matches perfectly the the socialite that has designs on him . There is a high level of energy in the film that was a requirement for a movie of this genre . The supporting cast is also one of the things that make this film the fun it is . Charles Ruggles , May Robson , Barry Fitzgerald , George Irving , and the rest of the cast do a marvelous job in the roles they created . Even Asta , the Charles ' dog , made a valuable contribution to the proceedings by appearing at key moments , even fighting Nyssa , the tamed leopard that is the " baby " of the title . The best way to enjoy the film is to let the magic Howard Hawks created put its spell on you . It's one of the best films of this genre .
Scheming dame	Jacques Tourneur will probably be remembered best for this film , even though he had an extensive career in Hollywood . Working with Daniel Mainwaring , the author of the novel in which this movie is based , he created one of the best pictures of this genre , one that will be a perennial favorite . Mr . Tourneur and his cinematographer , the brilliant Nicholas Musuraca , made a stunning looking film that looks as good today , as when it was originally released . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading now . Jeff Bailey has reinvented himself as the owner of a gas station in California . His past comes to haunt him at the beginning of the movie . Jeff has found peace and love in the small town where he has taken refuge . He can change his identity , but he can't hide from the people that want to see him dead . We watch in the beginning how Jeff is sent away by Whit Sterling to look for the disappearing Kathie Moffat , who has stolen forty thousand dollars and gone hiding . Jeff finds her in Acapulco . Kathie gives a bad name to any other dames in the movies of this genre . She is totally ruthless ; she will do anything to double cross Whit as well as have Jeff do whatever she wants . Comparisons have been made between " The Maltese Falcon " and " Out of the Past " . Both have plots that are twisted ; when we feel we know everything , there is a new twist to the story . We are constantly misled into thinking one way , when in reality , something else has happened . This is a film that combines all the elements of the classic film noir and juxtaposes it against the serene surroundings of where Jeff is now living . Black and white photography was used to great advantage in the movie . It has a style that makes it one of a kind . The music by Roy Webb plays neatly in the background without interrupting the action . The acting is first rate . Mr . Tourneur got a brilliant performance from Robert Mitchum . His Jeff , is the epitome of coolness . It's hard to understand the mentality of American cinema of the times not paying Mr . Mitchum his due . He was a much better actor than he was given credit for . His presence looms large in this movie and it's a tribute to him that he makes his character dominate the movie . Jane Greer was also excellent in her take of Kathie Moffat . She is pure evil , a sensuous woman who will do anything to get her own way . When we see her in Acapulco she is a seductress that no man can resist . She leads Jeff on by the sheer power of the desire he feels for her . Ms . Greer was not a beauty , by Hollywood standard , but yet , she makes an incredible contribution to the movie . Her textured performance is exquisite in its economy . We all see right through her , yet , she takes us for an incredible ride , up to the end of the picture . The others in the cast do an excellent job . A young and dashing Kirk Douglas is perfect as the dubious Whit . He shows such a magnetism , even then , at the start of his career in movies . Rhonda Fleming had a small role and she makes most of it . Also Virginia Huston , as Ann , makes a great contribution to the film . The film , ultimately , is a tribute to the talent of the director . This is Mr . Tourneur's best movie .
War is hell	This film is more realistic than the tepid pictures that were produced in the Hollywood of World War II . You have to give credit to the director , Ridley Scott , to come out with a winning movie that is totally engrossing and that keeps you at the edge of your seat all the time . The only sad part is that we never get to know the feelings on the Somali people that battled the American power to the bitter end . So in that sense , this film is a one-sided account of what went on , told to us from the American viewpoint , which is well and good , but we never get to hear from the other side , except the short scene from one of the Somali warlord and General Garrison . This film is released right smack at the height of the Afghanistan conflict in which Americans are facing " the evil enemy " , according to our president . In the case of the Somalian involvement , it was supposedly to help the Somalis regain peace from the warlords that dominated the country . The parallel with the war in Afghanistan is somehow similar as we are still battling the same type of enemy in a divided country , dominated as was Somalia by warlords that are more interested in the domination of the poor and defenseless people than in achieving democracy and freedom for the people of the country . What doesn't make sense at all is why didn't the Black Hawks attack from the air the thousands up in the roof , thus providing cover to the troops on the ground . In fact , the whole nature of the fighting is a bit of a puzzlement because if the intention was to kidnap the kingpins of the conflict , we only succeeded in putting our troops in harm's way and to have 19 men killed , when maybe they would have had a better chance if they had better cover from the same Black Hawks the enemy keep downing . The cast is very good . I never did like Josh Hartnett , and frankly , he is not a good actor . He doesn't show any emotion . The rest of the cast is great with actors of the stature of Tom Sizemore , Ewan McGregor , Eric Bana , William Fitchner and the rest . As an ensemble they interact very well and you believe they are the people involved in the original conflict . The gory details of war are realistically handled . The script by Ken Nolan serves the director very well even though , as pointed out at the beginning it's only one-sided , since the enemy then , as it is now is composed of people , as presented in the film , so horrible , they're very easy to hate . In spite to these misgivings , the film is so fast paced that almost 2 hours and a half pass by so quickly , we don't even feel it's that long . Mr . Scott gives us here his own take of the Somalian conflict in very cinematic terms .
Magic in the desert and music by Bach	" Out of Rosenheim " is a film about how the kind Jasmin touches the lives of other people that at first disdain her . In fact , Jasmin is an angel that happens to come to the help of the poor people at the seedy motel and cafe because she perceives beauty where there is ugliness , hope where there was despair and turns everyone around to appreciate her for what she contributes to enhance their lives . Percy Adlon , who is an original filmmaker , scored a big success with this simple film that , judging by some negative responses to this forum , can either make the viewer love it for its subtle charm , or just be perplexed because there is no action . Yet , Mr . Adlon , writing with his wife , Eleonor and Christopher Doherty , created a film that will stay in the viewer's mind for some time to come . As the film opens , we watch Jasmin and her husband taking a break in their journey through the desert . As they quarrel , Jasmin decides to leave him and gets her suitcase out of the trunk to walk along the solitary highway to find a place where to rest . Before that , we have seen a strange sort of mirage in the desert horizon where two surreal lights are seen through some mist . Those lights seem to guide Jasmin as to what route to take in order to continue her journey , or maybe she is just an angel with a mission , as the film continues . As Jasmin arrives at the seedy cafe that is next to the motel , she encounters a hostile Brenda , a black woman who is struggling to make the cafe and motel work with little success . Jasmin is given a room , but being suspicious , Brenda calls the local sheriff to investigate what is she doing at her place , but since there is nothing wrong , Brenda can't do anything . Jasmin upon discovering the cleaning tools in her room gets an inspiration to continue to straighten the rest of the place . She goes and cleans Brenda's office , which is in a state of chaos . When Brenda gets back , she is horrified watching the confusion she left behind has been turned into a neater place where to conduct business . She can't concede the fact to Jasmin , who she still considers an unwelcome guest that has overstayed and has committed the ultimate sin of making Brenda aware of the messy state of her place and her life . When Jasmin discovers in her husband's suitcase a kit about learning magic , she begins to practice the different tricks that she shows the others in the cafe . Rudi Cox , the strange man living in a trailer in the property , is a painter ; he decides he wants to paint Jasmin and little by little he discovers the beauty of his subject who seems to radiate it from inside her soul . The film owes a great deal of gratitude to Marianne Sagebrecht , one of the most accomplished actresses from Germany who is an asset to anything where she is cast . Ms . Sagebrecht steals the film because of the luminosity she projects ; she seems to cast an aura that others see and are instantly won over by her kindness and her generosity . CCH Pounder , makes a good contribution to the film . Her Brenda is at the beginning harsh , curt and just plain nasty because the way life has treated her . Jack Palance doesn't have much of a role to play , but his chemistry with Ms . Sagebrecht makes a sweet distraction for the movie . " Out of Rosenheim " is a film in which nothing seems to happen , yet it is packed with a powerful message that comes across as one watches it . Percy Adlon and his star , Marianne Sagebrecht , made a timeless film that will survive the passage of time .
Life at Cent-Com	" Control Room " shows the preparations prior to the Iraq conflict , as the world news media was positioning itself for the war that everybody knew was coming . The Cent-Com , or center of communications , was something the United States arranged in order to disseminate news about the Coalition's invasion of Iraq . This way , the different representatives of the global media would get the news from one source , without having to follow the fighting troops on the ground . In a way , this was the U . S . attempt to put its own input in what it wanted to the world to know . In doing so , little did the powers that be considered what a small Arab news network would do to tell viewers in that part of the world about what they perceived was going on . In doing so , Al Jazeera became one of the most hated news group by the people trying to liberate Iraq . From Donald Rumsfeld and his colleagues , one couldn't expect any differently . In a democracy , all voices have a right to be heard . Unfortunately , for Al Jazeera , they stepped on too many toes by telling a different story from the official one Washington wanted everyone to know . That was only the beginning . Up to that point , Al Jazeera was considered an enemy by most Arab states in the region because in their way of thinking . This news agency was pro-coalition , therefore , pro-American and anti-Arab . Al Jazeera became a symbol of opposition to the U . S . involvement in Iraq . Al Jazeera had the advantage of being from the region and understanding the mentality of the people , something the American planners didn't take into consideration . At the Cent-Com commanding post we meet Josh Rushing , the American in charge of coordinating the news . He is a decent man . At times , he is seen torn between reality , as the Al Jazeera correspondents tell him and his own loyalties to his country and the war cause . We doubt that after this documentary was shown , he is still at his post ! There are disturbing moments when we watch people hurt in the conflict . War is ugly and lots of innocents die . There is a segment in which one of the Baghdad's reporters sits at the roof of the building that housed the Al Jazeera's studios visually frightened as the bombing increases . Later on we get to know that Tarek Ayoub was killed in the bombing of that building . Was it a coincidence or a deliberate attempt to silence those irritating little men ? Al Jazeera was the antidote to the Fox News machinery . In watching the documentary , the viewer gets to see the story told from a different perspective . In a way , our view is balanced because we see the other side in a way we didn't know existed .
An inspector calls	" Quai des Orfevres " , directed by the brilliant Henri-Georges Clouzot , is a film to treasure because it is one of the best exponents of French film making of the postwar years . M . Clouzot , adapting the Steeman's novel , " Longtime Defence " , shows his genius in the way he sets the story and in the way he interconnects all the characters in this deeply satisfying movie that , as DBDumonteil has pointed out in this forum , it demonstrates how influential Cluzot was and how much the next generation of French movie makers are indebted to the master , especially Claude Chabrol . The crisp black and white cinematography by Armand Thirard has been magnificently transferred to the Criterion DVD we recently watched . Working with Clouzot , Thirard makes the most of the dark tones and the shadows in most of the key scenes . The music by Francis Lopez , a man who created light music and operettas in France , works well in the context of the film , since the action takes place in the world of the music halls and night clubs . Louis Jouvet , who is seen as a police detective , is perfect in the part . This was one of his best screen appearances for an actor who was a pillar of the French theater . Jouvet clearly understood well the mechanics for the creation of his police inspector who is wiser and can look deeply into the souls of his suspects and ultimately steals the show from the others . In an unfair comment by someone in this page , Jouvet's inspector is compared with Peter Falk's Columbo , the television detective . Frankly , and no disrespect to Mr . Falk intended , it's like comparing a great champagne to a good house wine . Bernard Blier is perfect as the jealous husband . Blier had the kind of face that one could associate with the man consumed with the passion his wife Jenny Lamour has awakened in him . Martineau is vulnerable and doesn't act rationally ; he is an easy suspect because he has done everything wrong as he finds in the middle of a crime he didn't commit , but all the evidence points to the contrary . The other great character in the film is Dora , the photographer . It's clear by the way she interacts with Jenny where her real interest lies . Simone Renant is tragically appealing as this troubled woman and makes an enormous contribution to the film . Suzy Delair , playing Jenny , is appealing as the singer who suddenly leaps from obscurity to celebrity and attracts the kind of men like Brignon , the old lecher . The film is one of the best Clouzot directed during his distinguished career and one that will live forever because the way he brought all the elements together .
Ecology according to the ex-future president of the United States	Al Gore's involvement with the environment is at the center of this wonderful documentary directed by Dennis Guggenheim . The film is basically the lecture Mr . Gore has toured the world to point out the problems caused by men as our world is suffering from a series of catastrophic events that , in his view , could have been easily prevented , had governments paid a close attention to clues the scientific community has been pointing out for quite some time . Unfortunately , it appears that our country is one of the ones to be blamed the most for not controlling the hot gas emissions that are thrown into the atmosphere . The last sequence of the documentary is the most poignant one . We are shown how insignificantly small our own planet is in relation with the rest of the universe . Only watching it in the way it's presented in the film , some of us will be humbled in learning how small and vulnerable we are , which makes Mr . Gore's point to try to salvage our planet by whatever means we can .
A death in the family	The disturbing opening scene is a nightmare that Rocco Giuranna is having . The rats that are scavenging a trash site seem to herald what he and his two brothers will face as the three come together because the death of their mother . Rocco is a social worker living in a state reformatory where he is in charge of young boys that are in the institution to be re-educated . Unfortunately , they will probably will go to be hard criminals when they are released from the Naples correctional facility . Raffaele , the older brother , is a judge in Rome . He has been asked to preside over an important case coming to trial that involves local terrorists . Italy was living harsh days at the time and judges were the target for paid assassins or revolutionaries with an agenda for eliminating those that dared to speak against them . The upcoming trial has a profound effect on Raffaele's wife , who knows it probably means the death of her husband . The third brother , Nicola , is a factory worker . Like his brothers , he fled the poor South of Italy in search for a better future in Torino . What he finds is unhappiness as he rebels against the firm he feels is enslaving him and his co-workers . His marriage has suffered because his wife has cheated on him and they are separated . It is at this junction that all three brothers are summoned to come home as their mother has died . Donato , the older father , is lost , as he ponders what is going to become of him . His memories of happier times , with the woman he adored , keep flooding back to him as his three sons come home to mourn for their loss . The three brothers , in turn , are haunted by their own memories of their present lives and their youth in the small town in Puglia before they left home . Francesco Rosi , adapted Andrei Platonov's novel " The Third Son " , together with Tonino Guerra , one of the best writers in the Italian cinema . Mr . Rosi , a director who shows an affinity for presenting ordinary people in difficult situations in their lives , scored a big success with this film . He knows these characters . The director makes an enormous contribution in the way he deals with the emotions of the principals in this film about the love of the land , on the one hand of Donato , the father , and the restlessness of the three sons that abandoned their birth place in search of a better living . Rosi's triumph is in showing us that ultimately , it's Donato , the father , the one that stayed behind who is the one that lived a better life than their three sons . The director achieves a triumph in the way he directed the four principals in the film . Philippe Noiret , Michele Placido , and Vittorio Mezzogiorno do an excellent job in bringing to life , Raffaele , Nicola and Rocco . It is however Charles Vanel , the veteran French actor who stays with the viewer because of his exquisite portrayal of the older Donato . Mr . Vanel hardly utters a word throughout the movie , yet , his presence is so powerful that at times one tends to forget the others . Mr . Vanel's Donato is one of the best creations in his long film career in France . Pasqualino DiSantis ' cinematography captures the essence of what Francesco Rosi was looking for . The director and his photographer were well attuned indeed . Ruggero Mastroianni's film editing shows once more his elegant style of putting the material together . Francesco Rosi is the one that brought all the elements together in this dramatic and satisfactory film .
" Mr . Wilder , I'm ready for my close-up "	Billy Wilder and Charles Brackett were about the best writing team in Hollywood for more than three decades . " Sunset Boulevard " shows the men at the pinnacle of their profession . Billy Wilder directed the film with his usual panache at this nostalgic look at a Hollywood that had faded almost a quarter of a century before . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . With the advent of the " talkies " a lot of film stars of the silent era lost their privileged positions as the most admired people in movies . When the new generation appeared in the scene , they were more accessible to the fans that flocked to see the new technique in the movies that came out . One of those movies stars , Norma Desmond , lives in the past as she never adapted to the new reality , which is evident in the way she stays out of the scene dwelling in her antiquated castle on Sunset Boulevard . Enter Joe Gillis , the man who never made it into the industry . As a writer , all his screen plays were rejected by the studio machinery because they were not what the heads of the production departments wanted to produce , or just were plain , not interested . Joe Gillis comes into the Desmond mansion by accident and it's an accident he encounters on his way out of it ! Tbe egotistical Norma Desmond lives in the her palatial home with Max Von Mayerberg , the loyal servant , who was himself , somebody in the silent era . Norma falls for the young Gillis in ways she never expected , but as a desperate woman she wants to possess what she can't otherwise buy , even a man going through financial bad times the way Joe Gillis is . Billy Wilder got magnificent performances out of the three principals . William Holden had one of the best opportunities of his film career with Joe Gillis , a character he wasn't even scheduled to play , but which Montgomery Cliff handed to him in a silver platter when he refused to appear in the picture ! Gloria Swanson , having experienced that old Hollywood , was a natural choice to play Norma , which was perhaps , the crowning role in her distinguished career . Erich Von Stroheim , the great director , himself , is absolutely wonderful as Von Mayerling . We see some of the silent era stars such as Buster Keaton , Hedda Hopper , Anne C . Nilsson , H . B . Warner , as well as Cecil B . DeMille , the director of Hollywood epics par excellence . The great musical score of Franz Waxman enhances the film . John Seitz black and white photography brings us back to that time . Ultimately , it's the genius of Billy Wilder that keeps things in balance showing a man who understood movies as perhaps the only one that could have directed the classic " Sunset Boulevard " .
Three for the road . . .	This is a very different Mexican film . One in which you can really appreciate the sure hand of director Alfonso Cuaron working at the top of his form with an excellent group of actors , which proves that when someone of this magnitude decides to make a good film about interesting characters in contemporary Mexico , one can expect a fine finished product . Alfonso and Carlos Cuaron have created people and situations that are very believable . The script is fine . " Y tu mama tambien " is about awakening and about reaching maturity . It's a great Mexican Road movie done with a lot of care . The Cuarons shows us a slice of life that could happen , not only in that country , but one that is universal . Producers and directors in Mexico should see this film and learn how to do future movies , even though the popular taste runs into the horrible soap operas , popular in Mexican TV . The Cuarons have turned out a magnificent script and have turned away from those popular melodramas that are a staple of the film industry of our neighbor to the South . Gael Garcia Bernal , who was excellent in Amores Perros , here demonstrates once again what an actor can do , given the right scenario and obviously a lot of freedom to give life to Julio . Diego Luna is also very credible in his portrayal of the son of a rich man on the road to discover himself . Obviously , the underlying theme is that both like each other , but it never comes out , as they both are so closeted and think themselves of being straight in such a macho atmosphere . Maribel Verdu plays the pivotal role of Luisa . She sees right through the boys , but has to play the part since they are the salvation from her miserable marriage . Here as in other Spanish films , she lets us know she is an actress who likes to take chances . This was the right vehicle for her and she takes advantage of a role that makes her outshine the rest of the cast . One can only hope more interesting things coming from this director and Mexico's gain is our loss , as it's obvious Mr . Cuaron's incursion into American films have not been as satisfactory as his work here .
The sands of time	As the story opens on the screen we watch a desert-like landscape that seems uninhabitable , and yet , there is such beauty and serenity in the dunes being formed as the wind pounds on them mercilessly . As the camera rests on some dunes in the distance , we watch as a convoy of people and donkeys are moving slowly in the sand . Whatever possessed Vasco De Sa to buy this land , seems to be incomprehensible ; that he tries to make a living out of civilization among the shifting sand is just folly ! Little by little we get to know a bit more about Vasco , his wife , Aurea , her mother Maria , as the men he has brought to help him leave them after experiencing the harsh elements in such an arid place . Things aren't made any better when a group of blacks come to see Vasco , who thinks they are going to rob him . He appeases them by giving them some of the things he has brought to this remote place , and we also learn about an island nearby where these former slaves have settled . After Vasco's tragic death , Dona Maria and Aurea , who is pregnant , are left to deal with the elements . After ten years have passed and Aurea has given birth to her daughter , Maria , she goes exploring and discovers a camp where foreign scientists are making astronomy studies . After a night with Luiz , she goes back for her mother and daughter , but finds her house in ruins after the shifting sand has crushed part of it . Only the young Maria survives . The kind Massu , on of the black men from the island , has loved Aurea from afar . Fate and circumstances bring them together by a bond that goes beyond all reason . After years have passed , Maria , who is now a grown woman discovers Luiz , who has returned to the area , not knowing what role he had played in her mother and her lives . Aurea tells her daughter to go with Luiz back to civilization , but Aurea has no desire to see a world she can't comprehend anymore . This exquisitely told story by director Andrucha Waddington is one of the most beautiful films that have come from Brazil in quite a while . The screen play by the excellent Elena Soarez , whose work one has admired as well , collaborates with Mr . Waddington once more in this strange , but highly moving picture about isolation , loyalty and folly . The wonderful cinematography by Ricardo Della Rosa makes everything one sees even better , if that's possible . The magnificent desert location and even the eclipse his camera captures fills one's senses like no other film in recent memory . Joao Barone and Carlo Bertolini's music score is another element that works with all we are watching . Of course , the film belongs to the two magnificent actresses at the center of the story . Fernanda Montenegro and her real life daughter , Fernanda Torres , make a great contribution to create these women of the desert . Fernanda Montenegro is seen as three different versions of the older women in the story and Fernanda Torres plays the young Aurea and the grown up Maria , the girl that was born in that remote area . Ruy Guerra , himself a distinguished director , plays Vasco with conviction . Seu Jorge , Stenio Garcia and the rest of the cast contribute to make this film work . It's curious to note some negative comments mainly from postings by Brazilian contributors to IMDb . The film , which was received with bad reviews , in general , from the media in that country , deserved much better . It's also curious that viewers from other areas get a different message and pleasure after viewing this film .
Hit the road !	" Wanderlust " , the interesting documentary Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini directed , is one of the best things about the role of road movies in our culture . This most American form of entertainment can be found in films from other countries , but it's the American vast landscape , which gives films of this genre the appeal and the significance that translates so well in movies made by some of the best creators in the business . The road movie's origins can be traced to the early westerns as the country expanded from East to West . Those early movies with the caravans of pioneers heading to settle the rest of the country , can be seen as a typical example of this phenomenon . Another example of this type of wanderlust is the migration of the thirties as people looked for other places that were a bit more hospitable . " Wanderlust " succeeds in the interviews with some of the best creators of this particular style of movie making . We hear from Dennis Hopper , whose " Easy Rider " , and others , typify the restlessness of the people taking the road . Allison Anders , another director that has set her stories that way , speaks intelligently about what is behind it all . Callie Khouri , Chris Eyre , Alexander Payne , Wim Wenders , Sam Shepard , Gus Van Sant and all the others contribute to make clear as to why we are all attracted to the road and what it all means to them . This excellent film was presented by IFC . Directors Berman and Pulcini have to be congratulated in producing this wonderful and informative documentary .
The job	Ermanno Olmi was a documentary maker in Italy during the 1950s . His roots were in the neo-realism movement that he , like most film fans , greatly admired and cherished their realistic stories . His arrival in the scene as an important voice was cemented with " Il Posto " , a film that established him as a man to be reckoned with . We had seen a restored copy of this magnificent film when it was shown at New York's Film Forum about four years ago and recently , we decided to take another look of the Criterion DVD , a wonderful transfer that will probably open his work to movie lovers all over . " Il Posto " is a great film because it doesn't pretend to be otherwise . Mr . Olmi , working on the screen play with Ettore Lombardo created a picture of the Italy during the boom after their defeat in WWII , as the country was getting back to the business of reconstruction . It was about this time that cities like Milan and Turin , in the north of the country , became the centers for manufacturing and commerce . It is in this context that we are taken to meet Domenico Cantoni and his family . They have come to Meda , a suburb of Milan , in search of better paid jobs . In the case of Domenico , scoring a position in one of those giant companies it means steady income and a job for life . Domenico is a clever young man and passes his math test with flying colors . This is the moment when he first sees another young woman , Magali , who is also taking the test . Domenico likes what he sees , but he is too shy to do anything that will make Magali think less of him . When he receives a notification for further tests and interviews , it appears he has been accepted by the firm . This , in turn , turns to be a situation that changes his hopes for developing some sort of relationship with Magali as they are assigned to two different areas of work . Domenico can't even see Magali during his lunch time because they are assigned to different shifts . As Domenico , who aspires to be an accountant within the firm , is assigned to be a messenger apprentice , something he clearly doesn't deserve , but he must accept , we follow him around different areas within the company . We are taken to watch the people in one typical accounting department , where older employees bide their time until they can retire . Domenico , who hopes to finally hook up with Magali at the company's New Year's party , is once again disappointed when she never arrives . Instead , he must spend a night surrounded by the same people he will be working with . The final sequence of the film shows how Domenico is able to move to the spot where he will probably spend the rest of his life , in which he , being the youngest , is suddenly the center of the department's ill will . Sandro Panseri makes a fantastic Domenico . This non-professional actor registers in his face all what is going in his head without great gestures , or other affectations . Domenico conquers the viewer's heart because he is genuine and because we realize the goodness in his soul . Loredana Detto , who appears as Magali also makes an impression . " Il Posto " is blessed by Pier Emilio Bassi's music score and by the black and white cinematography of Roberto Barbieri and Lamberto Caimi . The film is a triumph for Ermanno Olmi , who captured the ambiance and the gist of that era in a wonderful film that will live forever .
The infant	Industrialized societies have created a phenomenon among the young people that drop out from their midst , an aimless class without direction . Most of these youths will go into crime as the only means to survive their meager existences . They will also enter into relationships with other young people and produce illegitimate children , which is the subject at the center of this magnificent film by Jean Pierre and Luc Dardenne . Sonia , the young mother , is seen as the film opens looking for Bruno , the father of her infant son . It is clear , by the way we see Sonia take care of the baby , she is a mother who loves her son . Bruno , on the other hand , a petty thief , couldn't care less about this son , who probably looks not real to him , or at least , he cannot relate to the child's presence in his life . Bruno , and the young teen agers that he befriends , are partners in crime in stealing whatever come their way . Bruno , who obviously has no scruples , doesn't think anything when he learns about the lucrative market for selling babies to criminals that are willing to pay a lot of money in order to get them . Selling his own son means nothing to him . What Bruno doesn't count on is on Sonia's reaction , as she collapses in front of his eyes when he informs her about what he has done . The shock alone sends Sonia into the hospital where she is inconsolable for the great loss she has suffered . Seeing her in the state she is triggers in Bruno a reaction into getting back the baby . He gets the infant back , but the criminals involved in the deal will make him pay dearly for the business he took away from them . The last straw that unravels Bruno is the street mugging with young Steve in which , unknown to him , people go after him in a chase that takes the duo into the river . Steve , who suffers a cold shock from the water , almost drowns from the experience . When Bruno confesses to the crime , he does the only decent thing he has done in his life . The final scene shows Sonia , who has come to visit him in prison with their son , and Bruno who finally understand the enormity of his crime and his guilt . Jeremie Renier makes a good impression as Bruno . As the careless drifter , Mr . Renier does some of the best work of his career . He is totally believable as the petty criminal and predator . Deborah Francois captured Sonia and the love she felt for her son . Jeremie Segard is seen as Steve , Bruno's contact and partner in crime . Jean Pierre and Luc Dardenne are film makers that deal in real situations like the one they present us here . " L'Enfant " is one of the best films they have done because the intensity they bring to the story that shows that even a hardened criminal can redeem himself when he understand the enormity of his crime .
To hell and back .	The Pianist is an incredible film in many aspects . Roman Polanski's account of the survival of the pianist , Wladyslaw Szpilman , is a document about how one man can overcome the worst possible situations in a world gone completely mad around him . The only fault one can find with the adaptation of Mr . Szpilman's story by playwright Ronald Harwood , is the fact that we never get to know the real Wladyslaw Szpilman , the man , as some of the comments made to this forum also have indicated . There is a very interesting point raised by the the pianist's father who upon reading something in the paper , comments about how the Americans have forgotten them . Well , not only the Americans , but the rest of the world would not raise a finger to do anything for the people that were being imprisoned and made to live in the confined area of Warsaw . The exterminating camps will come later . What is amazing in the film , is the frankness in which director Polanski portrays the duplicity of some Jews in the ghetto . The fact that Jews were used to control other Jews is mind boggling , but it was a fact , and it's treated here matter of factly . Had this been made by an American director , this aspect would have never surfaced at all . Yet , Mr . Polanski and Mr . Harewood show us that all was not as noble and dignified as some other films have treated this ugly side of war . Wladyslaw Szpilman , as played by Adrien Brody , is puzzling sometimes , in that we never get to know what's in his mind . He's a man intent in not dying , but he's not a fighter . He accepts the kindness extended to him . He never offers to do anything other than keep on hiding , which is a human instinct . He will never fight side by side with the real heroes of the ghetto uprising . His role is simply to witness the battle from his vantage point in one of the safe houses across the street from where the action takes place . Adrien Brody is an interesting actor to watch . As the pianist of the story he exudes intelligence . There is a scene where Szpilman , in one of the safe houses he is taken , discovers an upright piano . One can see the music in his head and he can't contain himself in moving his fingers outside the closed instrument playing the glorious music from which he can only imagine what it will sound in his mind . The supporting cast is excellent . Frank Findlay , a magnificent English actor is the father of the pianist and Maureen Lipman , another veteran of the stage , plays the mother with refined dignity . In watching this film one can only shudder at the thought of another conflict that is currently brewing in front of our eyes . We wonder if the leaders of the different factions could be made to sit through a showing of The Pianist to make them realize that war is hell .
Angels	Director Lukas Moodysson has achieved a film that is so moving that it is hard to forget it after leaving the theater . Images come back into one's mind about this story about this girl . The tragedy of her life is something to be shocked and alarmed . To think there are out there , in the so-called civilized world , people that take advantage of girls like Lilja is mind boggling . Lilja's mother has to be one of the worst monsters ever presented in a film . This woman abandons her 16 year old daughter because she has found a meal ticket with a man that will probably end up leaving her as well . Lilja is beautifully portrayed by Oksana Akinshina . The actress and her character disappear in front of your eyes . The story is very true as thousands of naive girls are exported from what it was the old Soviet Union to other countries in order to force them into prostitution . This story is constantly in the news , yet more and more young girls are duped into going abroad with the promise of highly paid jobs that exist only for the people who exploit them . Her only friend is Volodya , also a very sad boy who is thrown out of his own house by an abusive father . Volodya and Lilja form a bond as they cling to one another . The little boy is street wise ; he knows the fate that awaits Lilja in Sweden . Their friendship is the only thing they both have . The sad part of the film is the realization that so called " normal " and perfectly " respectful " people are the same ones that brutalize these children . They use Lilja to satisfy their sexual appetites , then discard her like yesterday's trash . To know that there are people like that in our society is a very sad commentary about our world . Contrary to what many people have commented about the film , I thought that in spite of the tragedy of Lilja's and Volodya's lives , it had a very positive ending because both are free to run around in a better place together , which is not a luxury most of us have on our time in this planet . Mr . Moodysson gives us a film that will shock ; he dares to go where others wouldn't . A job well done . .
Posse mentality	" The Ox-Bow Incident " is a film that parallels the times we are living in many ways . Darryl Zanuck probably didn't even think much of this project that has proved to be a film admired by a lot of people that find in it , something that resonates with them . William Wellman , the director , made an excellent film out of the adaptation by Lamar Trotti , of the Walter van Tilburg Clark's novel . The film , only 75 minutes long , packs a lot in a short period , something that other films , twice as long , fail to deliver . Arthur C . Miller's cinematography is an asset for the picture . This film brought to mind another Henry Fonda film : " 12 Angry Men " , in which a more or less posse is trying to decide the fate of a young man accused of committing a heinous crime . In this film , we get a similar idea , in that the mob group that is formed will end up bringing the wrong kind of justice to the three unfortunate men that are deemed guilty and will be lynched ; for all practical purposes these men would be proved innocent in a real court of justice . Henry Fonda does an excellent job as Gil Carter . The biggest surprise though is the then unknown Dana Andrews , one of the men that is made to pay for a crime he didn't commit . Also , this is an early film in which Anthony Quinn appeared as one of the doomed men . The director got marvelous acting in general from the supporting cast , notably , Frank Conroy , William Eythe , Jane Darwell and Mary Beth Hughes . This is a classic film to be treasured .
As good as he gets !	The Warren Schmidt of Jack Nicholson is a man who has lived all his life in a fog . Even as he is ready to retire at the beginning of the film , it appears that life went through him , but he never had a life . Alexander Payne has created a portrait of a mediocre man who , might be living in Omaha , but for all practical purposes , he might be living in Mars ! . Does he ever know his wife ? Even though they've been married for 42 years , they are at different wave lengths . How about his daughter ? . This girl is a selfish creature who only cares about her own wedding plans that might be shattered . Helen Schmidt , Warren's wife , has made a home for her family , but did she ever understand this man ? For that matter , did Warren realize that he had a wife and built-in maid all in one ? Like in all marriages , there are annoying things that Helen did that Warren resents . She is a typical house wife from the old school and values in an ever changing world . Warren , being in his own world , discovers a dark secret that challenges the happy memory of Helen . It's very hard to conceive this Schmidt without Jack Nicholoson . This might be his greatest achievement of a distinguished career . He is pure perfection as this man who goes in search of himself and to reconnect with a daughter that couldn't care less about him . Visiting his daughter's future family , the Herzels , Warren's world collapses around him . After all , he and Helen lived normal lives . Being a guest in Roberta's house proves to be too much for him . Kathy Bates is , without a doubt , right on the money with her portrayal of Roberta Herzel . Just look at her around the dinner table to realize how good an actress she is . The rest of the cast is excellent . Hope Davis as the daughter brings the right amount of selfishness to her Jeannie Schmidt . We have known people like her . Her role is typical of many a bride who wants to have a full wedding from parents like hers . Dermot Mulroney is very effective as the groom . He's as creepy as his hairdo . He and Jeannie will probably end up in divorce in a few years , but she will have the album , the videos and the party to remember her fifteen minutes of fame in Denver . For Jack Nicholson watchers , just wait for the last sequence of the film after he gets home to understand we are watching is a lesson in acting . Warren Schmidt at last connects with reality in a manner that only this great actor only could .
Carmen , the temptress	Prosper Merimee wrote the novella from which French composer , Georges Bizet , got his inspiration for his opera " Carmen " . His work has long been a favorite of opera lovers that see in it an exciting time because of its magnificent music . Who hasn't been enchanted in hearing some of the famous arias from this work ? The quality of the music is the main asset for its popularity . Francesco Rosi , a talented Italian director , and his collaborator , Tonino Guerra , a distinguished writer , long involved with his country's cinema , seemed the natural choices for translating Bizet's opera to the screen . Both succeeded in the way the adapted the material and took it to real locations for this extraordinary production . Carmen was a sultry woman who enchanted men with her beauty and with her passion for life . It's easy to see how she charms Don Jose , the military man , who loses his head because he has not met another woman like this beautiful Andalucian beauty . Their love will consume them both , not before allowing them to bring all their fire into a doomed relationship . Placido Domingo , perhaps the best rounded tenor of his generation , makes a great Don Jose . Besides his virile presence , Mr . Domingo has a treasured voice that even age doesn't seem to put a dent to it . He is a prodigy of endurance in a long career in which Don Jose has been one of his best roles . Julia Migenes projects such fire and passion she smolders the screen with her mere presence as Carmen . It's no wonder Don Jose loses his head over her . Ruggiero Raimondi , another excellent singer plays Escamillo with his usual elegant style . Faith Esham is seen as Micaela , Don Jose's loyal fiance , who has no chance with him as he loses his soul to Carmen . Pasqualino DeSantis ' camera work enhances the vision of Mr . Rosi . The editing by Renzo Mastroianni and Collette Samprum makes one appreciate the way they blended the music and the acting into seamless performance . The music was conducted by Lorin Maazel and the Paris Opera orchestra and chorus . Francesco Rosi deserves credit for this lovely opera film .
Wanted : A good man for my Frankie	We almost missed seeing " Dear Frankie " , because as it happened , we caught it on the last day of its theatrical run here . Shona Auerbach owes to be congratulated for bringing this uplifting story to the screen . " Dear Frankie " is one of the best things that have arrived from the British cinema in a while . The screen play by Andrea Gibb is an intelligent account about a mother trying to help his deaf-mute son to get a father figure for her lonely son . We were hooked from the beginning by the serious look on Frankie's face . He is a boy that has been scarred for life . In spite of his handicap , Frankie is a boy that shows big hopes for his own future . Frankie yearns to see an absent father who is always away , working in a ship that seems never to come to port . Frankie's mother , Lizzie , is a study in rage and in the way she wants to protect her son from what happened to him at an early age . Lizzie moves from time to time . We realize she is running away , but the key to the puzzle doesn't come easy . One must wait until the end , almost , of the film in order to get to the bottom of the mystery surrounding this young woman . There are hints along the way , but the director doesn't want us to dwell on any conclusion we may have formulated in our minds , at all . Lizzie seems to have finally settled in the last place we see her bring Frankie and her mother Nell . Lizzie fights Marie , the kind neighbor , who owns a small cafe , and wants to help the young mother to make some money in the process . Marie gives freely , never expecting anything in return , which , in this date and age , speaks volumes in our egotistical society . What's more , Marie is instrumental for giving Frankie a chance to meet a " father " for a day , or two so that the young boy's wish could come true . When the Accra , the ship where Frankie is seen tracking throughout the movie , arrives in port , a stranger comes to be with the boy for the day . It's clear the boy affects deeply the strange man who takes Frankie out for walks and to places of interests . Lizzie , trying to be realistic , knows the dangers of having Frankie gets too close to this new situation , but she , too , is won over by the mysterious figure that does much more than expected . To say that Emily Mortimer was brilliant , might not encompass one iota of the great performance she gives as Lizzie . Ms . Mortimer expresses a lot as we watch the changes she shows at different moments . This young actress made a tremendous contribution to the film , in a role she was born to play . Jack McElhone is the biggest surprise of the film . The young boy shows he is a wounded soul because he cannot comprehend all the cruelty that life has inflicted upon him . Frankie , in spite of not being to speak , or hear , has an innate ability to understand all what is going on around him . His interplay with the stranger that passes for his father is one of the sweetest things on a film in a long time . Gerard Butler , as the stranger , makes quite an impact . At first , we realize he is doing because someone has put him to it and doesn't want to back out of it . But little by little , this evidently , tough man is softened to accept the young boy and his mother . In supporting roles , Mary Riggans and Sharon Small , are effective as Nell and Marie , respectively . This movie is sad , as it's uplifting . In the end , we are much better off for having met these people , if only for almost two hours that will stay with us for quite a long time !
Boy in the ' Hood	Boaz Yakin , the enormously talented writer / director of " Fresh " has done the impossible , a real movie about real things that offers a sharp contrast with other films about the subject we have seen before . Mr . Yakin working with what appears to be a cast of non professional actors , mainly , presents a gripping tale of life in the ghetto that will probably be a classic in this genre . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading now . Fresh is the young boy at the center of the action . We follow him as he runs illegal drugs for the dealers of his area . Fresh comes from a broken home where the mother is not around and the father is absent from the picture . His kind aunt Frances has gathered about a dozen youngsters in the home she shares with her mother , who is the grandmother of all of them . In spite of the poor surroundings , this is a decent home . Fresh probably learned quickly in his young life he must be a step ahead of the drug dealers and their henchmen in order to survive in that world . It's a heavy trip for a young child to deal with in his own life and still have a head in his shoulders . What Fresh does , of course , is illegal , but this is a determined young man that is looking for a better future in spite of what he sees around him . Fresh loves to play chess . We watch him win games in Washington Square Park over more skilled players . Sam , his absent father , is a master of the game . Sam teaches his son the game and how to think the way the champions do . Sam is a highly intelligent man who has had the misfortune of falling victim to the bottle . His son , admires him but bears a resentment against him for abandoning him and Nicole , his sister . One thing is sure , Sam always wins when he plays Fresh . Only after all the big events at the end of the film , Fresh beats the old man up . In doing so , we see tears coming out of him because maybe then , Fresh realizes the enormity of the events he's been involved in , and the fact that his father , in yelling at him , perhaps shows the boy how much he cares for him . There is a scene in the film involving pit bull fighting that will make , even the coolest viewer cringe . Fresh's dog wins a match , but it is a menace that has to be put to sleep . The scene where Fresh hangs the dog by his collar is one of the most horrible things we watch in the movie . Fresh is venting his frustration at a dog he clearly loved , but now he cannot keep . The acting by all the principals is first rate . The only problem is that sometimes some of what he hear in the dialog is incomprehensible because of the use of street slang most of the viewers don't know . Sean Nelson makes a perfect Fresh . He is one of the most natural actors we have seen in a while . The lack of formal training works out as we watch a portrayal that is devoid of any mannerisms , or other cute poses that someone with more experience would have done with this role . Samuel L . Jackson makes another incredible appearance as Fresh's father Sam . Mr . Jackson's take on this man is an excellent example why he is on of the best actors working in films today . Giancarlo Esposito as Esteban , the nasty drug dealer , adds another great role to his brilliant film career . Adam Holender , the cinematographer , has given the film the right look . The dreamy scenes where Fresh is seen looking toward Manhattan at different times of the day , is pure poetry . This is an important movie dealing with an important subject . Thanks to Mr . Yakin , we go into that world that , for some of us , might as well be in another continent , but never right here in another part of town !
Playing with words	This delightful documentary , directed by Patrick Creadon , is a dream come true for people that enjoy to solve crossword puzzles . It centers around Will Shortz , the current New York Times editor , who has revolutionized the way we do the puzzles today . The film was co-written by Christine O'Malley , who with the director , takes us to meet some of the people behind the scenes . We must make a confession from the start , we are one of those addicted to solving the daily crosswords in the paper . The New York Times puzzles are the best of all the ones published by any newspaper . Of course , we are not in the league of the likes of Tyler Hinman , Trip Payne , or Al Sanders , who were the three finalist in the 2005 competition , but we are happy with just the idea of solving them every morning . There are many personalities that speak about their addiction to the crosswords of the New York Times . Among them , we hear from former President Bill Clinton , a man that has always been notorious for his quick mind . David Okrent , the former public editor of the Times , makes a surprise appearance . Jon Stewart is also funny in the way he deals with clues and how he blames Will Shortz when he doesn't get them . Mike Mussina , The Indigo Girls , Bob Dole , and other celebrities also are seen . The great fun of " Wordplay " is watching a master constructor of the stature of Merl Reagle creating a daily crossword right in front of the camera , and explaining the logic behind it . There is a funny moment when Ellen Ripstein , a former winner , tells us that in spite of having won , she keeps going every year to participate in the tournament . Her performance in the entertainment part of the competition brings a light and goofy moment to the film . The only thing we don't get too much of is the master himself . Will Shortz appears all too briefly as the emphasis of the documentary seems to be the annual competition at the Marriott in Stamford . Some of Mr . Shortz observations are funny , especially when he shares his typical weekly correspondence from frustrated people that are " puzzled " by his clues . " Wordplay " is a film that will resonate more with crossword puzzle lovers , but it is a fun movie to sit through because the witty material and the pace it was given by its creators .
The collector	If anyone has any doubts about the talent of Liev Schrieber , just a look at his new film , " Everything is Illuminated " , which clearly shows a man that is not only one of America's finest actors , but a new director whose first effort is indeed an inspiration and a harbinger of what is to follow . Mr . Schreiber has adapted the novel by Jonathan Safran Foer into a film that will live forever because of the way the director has adapted the material . The film clearly surpassed our expectations since we had no preconceived ideas . For those who haven't watched the film , perhaps you should stop reading here . Jonathan is a collector . His love for his grandparents is boundless . He watches as his grandfather dies and as his grandmother is on what appears to be her death bed . On a clear moment , this dying woman gives Jonathan a picture and an amber ornament for his collection . Watching the photograph , taken a long time ago , a young couple are seen together . Watching makes Jonathan think it shows the grandfather and his girlfriend , taken on happier times . Watching the snapshot seems to be the motivation for this intense young man to go looking for his ancestors ' past in the Ukraine . Jonathan has made arrangements with a travel agency , Heritage Tours , of Odessa for his trip to Trochenbrod , the mythical place where his grandfather came from . The agency is handled by an older man , who claims to be blind , and his grandson , Alex , a man who loves the pop American culture that has captured his imagination , as well as his contemporaries in the country . Alex speaks a kind of English no one speaks and his conversation and translation , for Jonathan's benefit are hilarious to our ear for the use of sometimes unheard English terms . The old man insists in taking his dog , Sammy Davis Jr . , against the wishes of Jonathan , who doesn't want to sit next to the snarling and barking animal during the trip . As they embark in search of Trochenbrod , it's clearly that his companions , especially the old man has no clue where he is going . At this point , the film becomes a road movie , as the three characters riding the back roads of the country become more acquainted with one another . As the trio arrive at the sunflower field with the house at the end , it indicates they have indeed come to the right place . Some places are a clear reminder of the conflicts of the past . The older woman , living in the isolated place , is the missing link of the story . She is able to put things into the right perspective . But here is where the story changes its emphasis from Jonathan , who clearly has come to the land of his ancestors , to the old man . We watch as this older man starts remembering things about himself . This , in turn , changes the dynamic of the film as we discover how connected Jonathan and his guides have been all the time . Some criticism in these pages have expressed opinions about the accuracy of the story , which after all , it's a work of fiction and liberties have been taken . It would have been impossible to make another film including so much that is contained in the book . The great way the film is divided into different chapters is a clever way to let the viewer know what's about to be seen . Elijah Wood , a magnificent film actor , does an excellent work by underplaying Jonathan . Mr . Wood makes one of his best appearances in any film with his interpretation of the main character . The felicitous casting of Eugene Hutz as Alex , the Ukranian tour assistant and translator , seems to be an idea made in heaven . Mr . Hutz is about the best thing in the film . His arcane usage of English gives the film a funny angle that delights the viewer . Boris Leskin as Alex's grandfather and driver of the tour car makes a valuable contribution to the film , as well as Laryssa Lauret , who is seen in the last part of the movie . The excellent cinematography of Matthew Libatique brings the splendor of the Czech Republic's countryside in all its magnificence . The musical score by Paul Cantelon is heard in the background adorning the film in ways that it adds a richness to the movie . Above all , this is a triumph for Liev Schreiber , the first time director that will surely go far in whatever he decides to do next .
A whodonit a la Altman	Robert Altman proves with this film his ability to bring to the screen all the characters in the film , have them interact with one another and maintain our interest in all what's going on , at the same time . Not only does this film has a great script , but it includes virtuoso acting by his English cast . And what cast it is ! The visual style of this film is awesome . We feel as though we're intruding on the guests assembled for a weekend in Gosford Park in the England of the 30s . The Altman technique of having characters talk at the same time works very well here . We're like eavesdroppers to all the conversations taking place in the different rooms . We can peek at how the upper classes behave in their natural habitat , as well as how the servants revolve around theirs . There is not a false note in this film . It involves us thoroughly , as is the case with other Altman pictures . We're afraid not to pay attention , thus missing a bit of dialogue . We are like eavesdroppers on the other side of the screen savoring the antics of the rich and famous . Maggie Smith is brilliant as the impoverish noblewoman that is going through bad times . Michael Gambon strikes the right note with his portrayal of the head of Gosford Park , as does Kristin Scott-Thomas , as his wife . It was very good to see Alan Bates as the butler . Helen Mirren is incredible as the head of the staff , always in the background , in her thankless job . What a pleasure to see Kelly McDonald , Clive Owens , Derek Jacobi , Eileen Atkins and Emily Watson . They are the devoted servants who keep this household going . All in all , this was one of the best films that came out at the end of 2001 , a year that didn't seem to have many interesting films for adults and fans of intelligent moviemaking . Thank you , Mr . Altman !
The Casbah	Julien Duvivier was one of the best French film directors of all times . He was a pioneer and an innovator of the cinema . His legacy is a rich one , producing films that were imitated , but never equaled by other men . Take " Pepe le Moko " is 1937 film that was remade by Hollywood twice , with mediocre results . One wonders how can , an original and pace setting work of art , be redone by people that had not the sense of style , nor the brilliancy of Julien Duvivier ? Duvivier took the production to Algiers with magnificent results . Working with the brilliant cinematographers , Marc Fossark and Jules Kruger , Duvivier captures the essence , vibrancy and mysteriousness of Algiers with emphasis in the Casbah quarter , which comes alive with the magical light his camera men got out of that closed quarter and that beautiful city by the sea . The idea of having Pepe living in that maze of streets and houses that communicate through the roofs gives the film a claustrophobic feeling because our main character cannot leave this area without risking being arrested as soon as the police catch up with him . Pepe is a man that endears himself to the people in the Casbah . Together with his gang , he appears to thrive in this milieu . Pepe is loved by the faithful Ines . She is a loyal woman who will do anything to protect Pepe and the rest of his cronies . Pepe , on the other hand , might be in the Casbah , but his heart is in Paris . That is evident when Gaby , the gorgeous kept woman , is separated from her party while at the Casbah , only to be rescued by Pepe , who soon discovers he has a lot in common with her . In fact , in a lovely sequence both Pepe and Gaby start naming favorite places in Paris . Place Blance , they discover is their kind of place . How true ! Pepe is a hunted man . This man , who has been able to elude being caught , makes a fatal mistake upon learning Gaby and her friends will be sailing for France . He manages to buy a ticket , but the police are on his trail and it's only a matter of time they'll get him . The final sequence of Pepe watching the ship pull away from the port is one of the saddest moments in the movie because this gangster's past interferes with the sudden passion he feels for a woman that will never be his . Jean Gabin , what a charismatic actor he was ! His Pepe is at times a fun man , a criminal , a lover , an escapee from the justice , and a fantastic actor that registers each phase of the character with conviction . M . Gabin was perhaps one of the best film actors of the French cinema ; with Pepe , he clearly shows why he was an actor that could do nothing wrong . Pepe was one of his biggest creations for the screen . The beautiful Mireille Balin is seen as Gaby , the woman who conquers Pepe's heart . They have a lot in common . Her unusual situation gets in her way and her love for Pepe will not be possible . Line Noro plays Ines , the woman who adores Pepe , but she realizes she can't have him . Also in the cast Fernand Charpin , Gabro , Lucas Giroux , Gilbert Gil give good performances for M . Duvivier . The film is a classic of the period . Julien Duvivier was at the top of his craft , as he clearly proves with this movie .
Something's wrong with the Victor family	Todd Solondz , is a man who dares to go where other auteurs would not go . As a result , his films are tremendous achievements because of what he decides to explore on screen . Obviously , his films are not directed for the masses . His films are appreciated by a small group that know what Mr . Solondz is capable of tackling . This is a man who appears not to know shy away from getting involved in what is wrong with the suburban society he seems to know so well . If you haven't seen the film , please stop reading here . In this new film , Todd Solondz takes us back to the Wieners , the family that he introduced to us in his debut , as we watch the closed casket of Dawn . At the same time we are shown another family that are related to the Wieners , the Victors . The director loves to examines the family dynamics , as it's the case with the study he does on the Victors . Aviva Victor is a girl who wants to have a child . Alas , it's not going to happen any time soon . We see , in painful detail what this young woman does to her suburban parents . Joyce , the mother , is shocked and horrified . There's only one thing in her mind to do : Aviva is made to have an abortion , to which she doesn't agree , but one that is forced on herself . Joyce , the materialistic mother , in a scene that is about the best thing in the film , tries to reason with Aviva and offers her own story about how she had also aborted a baby , who would have been named Henry , after her father . Her motives are purely based on whatever sacrifices the arrival of the unwanted baby would have meant in the Victors life . Aviva , after the botched abortion by Dr . Fleisher , takes to the road in a way to show her rebellion against what has been forced on her . Aviva , for her young age , is extremely wise as to what to do and what to expect from the different people she meets along the way . The device by Mr . Solondz to have eight different actors play Aviva , pays up in a way one wouldn't even have thought it would . Each one of the actor / actress leaves his / her own imprint in playing this disturbed girl . The most appealing of the different people playing the girl is the " Sunshine Aviva " , the Afro-American that makes quite an impression in her take on this sad lost soul . When Aviva is found by the side of a brook , the kind Peter Paul brings her to the Sunshines ' home . These amazingly couple are too good to be true , as one discovers later on . The motherly Mama Sunshine is anyone's idea of how a mother should be . Not having family of her own , they have taken about a dozen children , each with a physical problem , but who appear to lead a happy existence with the Sunshines . Peter Paul takes Aviva one day to the dump site where some of the discards from the abortion hospital take the fetuses . Aviva is horrified , she identifies to the fact that wanting to have a child of her own , this reality hitting her in the face is too much for her . Aviva then takes to the road again with the man she has had a sexual encounter before . This proves fatal as he is a man on a mission , an executioner that acts for the hate group that the Sunshines belong to . The film is multi layered with an incredible texture between the adventures Aviva experiences . " Palindromes " is a hypnotic film . Any viewer falling under its spell is in for a magic ride guided by Todd Solondz . What the director has gotten from this talented cast is one of the best ensemble playing from any indie film this year . Ellen Barkin has one of the best moments of her career as Joyce Victor in the sequence where she tries to explain to Aviva the reason for aborting . Debra Monk , a fine , but underused actress , is magnificent as Mama Sunshine . Ms . Monk's appearance shows us a woman that on the surface is something , when in reality she is a monster . Sharon Wilkins , the " Sunshine Aviva " gives a compassionate reading that reveals so much of the young girl she represents . Alexander Brickel's Peter Paul , the boy that befriends Aviva , plays the sweet boy perfectly . Also in the cast , the wonderful Stephen Adly Guirgis , who plays the right wing enforcer fanatic . Mr . Solondz is to be congratulated in getting a tamed performance from the otherwise intense Jennifer Jason Leigh , who plays one of the most quiet Avivas . This film proves that Mr . Solondz loves to takes chances in telling stories that are dark and not commercial , but he makes them resonate with his viewers because he doesn't compromise with what he perceives as the truth around him . This is a man who is not a wishy washy when it comes to taking chances in being an original .
The sins of the fathers .	Sam Mendes ' Road to Perdition is one of the best things that have come out of Hollywood in a while . As he proved before with his great film , American Beauty , he outdoes himself with this story set in the Chicago of the 30s at the height of the Prohibition Era . The story of the relationship between Mike Sullivan and his son , Michael is translated by Mr . Mendes for the screen with a lot of panache , which seems to be his style , and we're never bored by what we are being shown on screen . The writers , Max Allan Collins and Richard Piers Rayner , have done a great job in their treatment of the story . The great cinematography by the American genius photographer , Conrad Hall , should be noted as well . It gives a " look " of the somber days , depicted on this film , by adding another layer of depth in the overall effect the director obviously wanted to create , one in which the dark tones of the sets used , give us a feeling of what it was like being there as silent witnesses to the story . Tom Hanks is very effective as Mike Sullivan , but the revelation here is how a great Paul Newman is with the proper direction and vehicle . He surpasses his past work . Paul Newman , with only a gesture , can convey a richness of emotions . Jude Law was the only principal whose character seems to be a bit far-fetched , and somehow , we just can't believe this man . He's too good to be true . Tyler Hoechlin was excellent as young Michael . He's a natural who can hold his own playing against Hanks and Newman . Let's hope the people behind him steer him in the right direction so that he'll have a great career . Congratulations to Sam Mendes . He's an original who really understands his craft and knows what to do in order to make a film like this stay in our minds .
Wilkommen . Bienvenue , Welcome !	" A Foreign Affair " is not one of the films , directed by Billy Wilder , that are constantly seen on cable . We saw the movie a few years ago , as part as a tribute to the master . " A Foreign Affair " shows a Billy Wilder at one of his best moments of his Hollywood career . In going back to a destroyed Berlin , a city in which he lived , Mr . Wilder , and his collaborators , presents us with a film that must have been close to his heart . We are shown a Berlin in ruins right after the war as the US Congressional delegation comes to investigate the morale of the American men deployed in the divided city . It was still a time where some Nazis are still hiding from justice as the Allied forces are looking for them . One of the members of the commission that arrives in Berlin , Congresswoman Phoebe Frost , is carrying a birthday cake for one of her Iowa constituents , sent by his girlfriend . Berlin in those days was a place where things were hard to obtain . A lot of everyday goods , as well as all types of items , were bought , sold , or bartered , in the streets . We get a glimpse of it , as Capt . John Pringle exchanges his own birthday cake for a mattress that he intends to present to his current love , the exotic Erika , who entertains in the Lorelei , the cabaret that attracts a mixed crowd . Things get complicated as Phoebe Frost , who is a sticker for detail , catches Pringle at the night club . Phoebe , Pringle and Erika will be involved in a web of deception , intrigue and love . The no-nonsense Congresswoman falls in love , against her better judgment with the handsome Pringle . There are delicious moments in the film that only someone with Mr . Wilder's eye for detail could get from his players . Phoebe Frost is taken for a ride with two GIs who think she is a local . The Congresswoman also plays a number in the Lorelei , a song with the appropriate title of " Iowa Corn Song " , one of the highlights of the movie . Also , Erika , sings a couple of numbers , " Illusions " , and " Ruins of Berlin " that will stay with the viewer because of the way Ms . Dietrich could only interpret them . Another sequence involves Pringle and Phoebe inside a file room in which drawers are opened and shut with an amazing pace . Jean Arthur is the best thing in the film . She was an actress who showed every emotion so well in her expressive face . Phoebe Frost has to be one of the best roles she ever played on the screen . Marlene Dietrich is another asset in the movie . Her Erika was a survivor , as she clearly shows . John Lund , makes a wonderful Pringle , the man who ends falling in love with Phoebe . Millard Mitchell is seen as Col . Plummer . The only thing with the copy shown on TCM , it was so dark , that at times is hard to see what's going on . The photography by Charles Lang shows the devastation and the condition that Berlin looked like right after being repeatedly bombed by the Allies during WWII . At one point in the film , Erika tells Phoebe to accompany her home , " It's the next ruin " , she explains . " A Foreign Affair " is one of Mr . Wilder's best achievements as he gives us an account of the city he knew well .
Ahead of its time	" Flesh and the Devil " , the 1926 silent film , brilliantly directed by Clarence Brown , was shown recently on cable and the most amazing thing happened : the film looks superb ! " Flesh and the Devil " has one of the most amazing team behind the camera , one that made its stars look so magnificently that one can't take ones eyes from the screen for fear of losing something . In addition to the superb director , the work of William Daniels with his camera is amazing . Mr . Daniels created images that are hard to forget . The opening sequence of the film involving the arrival of Leo and Ulrich in their hometown , has to be one of the best things ever filmed . When Leo discovers the beautiful Felicitas as she descends from the train and walks to the awaiting car , where he runs to rescue the flower arrangement she inadvertently had dropped , is charged with desire and raw sex . Hollywood was more daring during those precode days when anything seemed to go . Greta Garbo and John Gilbert make this film something to watch again and again . Both stars exuded such charisma that it's not hard to realize they were lovers . Ms . Garbo looked lovely in all her scenes and Mr . Gilbert was one of the handsomest leading men of the era . One of the best things whoever restored the film was to add a great musical score that makes watching the pleasure it is . Also , in spite of being a silent movie , " Flesh and the Devil " has such a fluidity that , at times , we forget it's not a " talkie " , because of the magic that Mr . Brown , and his cinematographer , William Daniels , were able to do together . Of course , the film is what it is because of its stars ' magnetism and the way they make us care about the story .
Let's go to Maxim's	The great Ernst Lubitsch clearly understood the material in which " The Merry Widow " was based . Being European himself , he clearly identified with this delightful Franz Lehar operetta that had been charming audiences throughout the years . Mr . Lubitsch places the action in the small country of Marshovia , in central Europe . The director had an eye for the great spectacle he presents for us . Mr . Lubitsch greatest achievement is that he seems to have his camera waltzing all the time . The result is an amazing triumph for MGM . In fact , the glorious sets one admires in the film are breathtaking . For a film made in 1934 , the art directors , Cedric Gibbons and Gabriel Scognamillo recreate the royal palace of Marshovia in amazing detail , as well as the Paris scenes with an elegance and good taste that shows the resources of the studio that didn't spare anything . The black and white cinematography of Oliver Marsh enhances the Lubitsch style . Adrian's gowns look luxurious and the editing of the film by Francis Marsh give the film continuity without ever making the action appear forced or staged . The pairing of Maurice Chevalier and Jeanette MacDonald was an match that seems to have been made in haven . Both actors are a delight to see . Mr . Chevalier with his French accent and mannerisms make his Count Danilo the charmer he is . The beautiful Ms . MacDonald is mysterious at first , when we meet her , then as she has fallen in love , changes her attitude and realizes Danilo is the man for her . The secondary roles are played with great panache by the genial Edward Everett Horton , who as the ambassador to Paris , is under orders to have Sonia , the wealthy woman , accept Danilo and return to Marshovia with all her money . George Barber plays the King Achmed and the incomparable Una Merkel is seen as Queen Dolores . The Merry Widow waltz received a great production number in which about a hundred couples are seen dancing around Sonia and Danilo , first in white tuxedos and gowns and later in black ones . Later all the couples are mixed together creating such a rich moment . By today's standards that sequence couldn't have been done , or it must have cost a fortune , or perhaps would have digitally mastered in order not to pay dancers to appear dancing in the movie . Let's just be thankful there was a man with a vision , Ernst Lubitsch , and let's be grateful for his vision and his legacy .
The right to die with dignity	Alejandro Amenabar , the young and talented Spanish director , clearly shows us he is a serious film maker . Anyone doubting it , should have a look at his latest film " The Sea Inside " . This is a movie that has been rewarded with numerous accolades , not only in Spain , but throughout the world , wherever this wonderful movie has been shown . If you have not seen the film , perhaps you would like to stop here . Ramon Sampedro is a man confined to bed . Being quadriplegic , he depends on the kindness of strangers for everything . Since his accident , Ramon only thinks in one thing alone : how to end his life ! This is the moral issue at the center of the story , based on the real Ramon Sampedro's life . Mr . Amenabar tells the story from Ramon's point of view . There is nothing here that is false or manipulative on his part . After all , he relies on facts that were well known in his country as this case became a " cause celebre " in favor of euthanasia , a theme that no one in that country wanted to deal with in Spain . With its background of being a predominantly Roman Catholic country , Spain has evolved into one of the most democratic societies in Europe , a distinction that is more notable because of its long years dominated by a dictator . Yet , in spite of the advances in that society , the idea of taking one's own life , is something not clearly understood by the majority of its citizens , who still considered this subject as something that could not be done in their country . Ramon Sampedro was a man that loved life . He lived an intense life as a young man when he enlisted as a sailor to discover the world . Having no money , this was the only way for him to see other lands , experience other cultures . Ramon's love affair with the sea , is something that people in Galicia learn to love from their childhood . Imagine how that same friendly sea is the one that takes away Ramon's life , as he knew it ! In a second , Ramon goes from a vibrant young man into a vegetable ! Ramon's family is shattered by the experience . Suddenly they must leave everything aside to take care of him at home . His brother and sister-in-law , are stoic people that deal with the situation as a matter of fact . Their lives become something of an afterthought , because Ramon's life comes first . They tend to the sick man without protesting , or blaming Ramon for the sacrifices they must make to keep him alive . That is why , in their minds , the Sampedros can't comprehend Ramon's wishes to end it all . Haven't they given up having a normal life to take care of him ? This moral issue weighs heavily on these uncomplicated and simple people because in their minds , they are doing what came naturally . The second subject of the movie is the legal issue of the euthanasia and the well meaning people that suddenly enter Ramon's life in their desire to help him put an end to his suffering . There's Julia , the lawyer who is herself handicapped and suffers from a rare malady . There is Rosa , the fish cannery worker who becomes infatuated with Ramon . Javier Bardem , makes a brilliant Ramon Sampedro . His transformation is total . We don't doubt from one moment he is no one else but the paralyzed man on that bed . Mr . Bardem can only use his face in order to convey all the emotions trapped inside Ramon . Mr . Bardem makes this man real . This is perhaps Javier Bardem's best role of his career . He surpasses his own award winning performance as Reynaldo Arenas , the late Cuban poet he portrayed in " Before Night Falls " . In the supporting roles , Belen Rueda , makes an impressive appearance as Julia , the woman fighting her own physical problems . Lola Duenas is also effective as Rosa , the kindred soul that loves Ramon deeply . Celso Bugallo , as Ramon's brother shows a man at a crossroads of his own life . Mabel Rivera makes a compassionate Manuela , the sister-in-law that never asks anything of life , but tends to Ramon without questioning why she has to do it , at all . Mr . Amenabar also has composed the haunting music score for the film . He is a man that never cease to surprise . One wonders what his next project will be , but one wishes him success in whatever he might decide to do in the future .
The importance of being Oscar	Oscar Wilde's language is exquisitely spoken by the English cast that made , what should be considered , the definitive version of the play . The most important thing is the poetry all these actors were able to bring to the film , which reflects a bygone era ; it is music to one's ears . Anthony Asquith directed and adapted the play in ways that it never feels it's filmed theater . The director achieves a coup in casting Dame Edith Evans as Lady Bracknell , in one of her best appearances on the screen . Her Augusta is just what one expects a Victorian English lady to be like . Although Ms . Evans is not on screen all the time , she completely dominates the action . Even if one knows Ms . Evans is giving an exaggerated portrait of a society lady , she is delightful to watch as one stays riveted to her movements , facial expressions in making this woman come alive for us . Michael Redgrave and Michael Denison , two dashing young actors , at the time , are a joy to see . The fastidious Jack , and his friend , Algenon , have excellent opportunities in which to shine . The same goes for the two female leads , Joan Greenwood and Dorothy Tutin , are perfectly cast as Gwendoline and Cecily , the love interests of Jack and Algenon . The redoubtable Margaret Rutherford is seen as Miss Prism , who is the key to solving the mystery in the plot . " The Importance of Being Earnest " is a classic that was made at the legendary Pinewood studios and it shows the British cinema at its best .
Snap shots	" Ascenseur pour l'echafaud " was Louis Malle's first film . It's strange that the man that showed a natural talent for telling a crime story in a somewhat unusual way , didn't go back to the genre in his interesting and distinguished career as a director . The timing was right , the film came out in 1958 . It was followed by " Les Amants " , which proved he was a force to be reckoned with . The director adapted a novel by Noel Calef that presented a classic situation for these types of crime films . A young and beautiful woman married to an rich older man who finds herself passionately in love with a younger man that works for her husband . The old man has to be eliminated if the lovers are to aspire to a life together . Julien Tavernier , the young man , plans and executes the crime that appears to be flawless . Stupidly , he overlooks a piece of rope he has left hanging from an the upstairs floor . As he does that , he is about to leave to meet Florence Carala , his lover , at a cafe on Boulevard Hausmann . As he goes back to take care of his mistake , the janitor stops the elevator that is carrying him upstairs . What to do ? In the meantime , a young punk and petty criminal , Louis , who is picking up his girlfriend , Veronique , sees Julien has left the keys in the convertible car , plus his raincoat . He decides to take a joy ride . Florence , who happens to be looking to the street sees the car go by , but she notices there is a woman on the passenger's side . Florence decides to look for him . This intensely satisfying crime film was given a great treatment by an inspired Louis Malle and he was blessed to have Jeanne Moreau to portray Florence . Louis Malle , like the directors that were arriving on the scene of the French cinema were impressed by the American crime and film noir genre , they discussed in magazines . These crop of new directors wanted to revolutionize the narrative and create a different way to present their stories . The streets of Paris became the backdrop to the movies that will follow . What Louis Malle created was a moody film that tells a lot about the mind of the criminals as they are going through the anxieties of knowing what they had done and thinking how they would get away with the horrible crime they had committed . On the one hand , Julien , is the victim of Louis and Veronique , as they steal the convertible , only to get into trouble themselves . Florence's state of mind is right there on the screen , in front of us , as she roams the streets of Paris trying to make sense of what happened to Julien . Jeanne Moreau gives an impeccable performance as Florence . We watch her as she goes from being sure of herself , to suddenly realizing she is defeated . What's more , in a ironic twist , her confession to the police will work against Julien , instead of helping him . She also incriminates herself in ways she never suspected when the candid pictures on a forgotten camera are developed . Jeanne Moreau is nothing short of fabulous . Maurice Ronet , doesn't have the flashy opportunity in which to shine as does his co-star . His Julien is a man that wants to have it all , but he makes serious mistakes along the way . Georges Poujouly is seen as the petty criminal Louis who passes himself as Julien Tavernier . Charles Denner and Lino Ventura , who will go to bigger and better things later on in their respective careers are excellent , especially Mr . Ventura as the inspector Cherier , who figures the whole mystery . This film was the debut of a man who went to do great work in his native France and have a second career in America . What distinguishes this film from others of the genre is the jazzy score by Miles Davis , whose music blends perfectly with the images one sees . The cinematography by Henri Decae shows us a nocturnal Paris far from the touristy places most directors love to present . Paris , as a backdrop , is what makes this film the joy it is to watch .
The greatest story behind the making of a Hollywood epic	David O . Selznik , one of the most successful producers in the Hollywood of the 1930s , probably never considered what he was getting into , when he decided to bring Margaret Mitchell's massive novel , " Gone with the Wind " , to the movies . The monumental task to recreate the book , which was a favorite among the American public of the era , was not an easy , or a happy undertaking by Mr . Selznik , or the people that were involved in the project . David Hinton's documentary , which was shown by TCM recently , is a gem of a film because it gives a fantastic account of all that went on to make the film . " Gone with the Wind " stories have been told forever , or so it seems , yet , in the documentary they are examined thoroughly again by a lot of Mr . Selznik's collaborators who were still around in 1989 to tell the story . The best thing in " Making of a Legend : Gone with the Wind " is the footage where many stars were tested for the leading roles . The characters of the book were coveted by most of the actors of the time because they realized the importance about appearing in it would mean to their careers . We see actors of the stature of Jean Arthur , Joan Bennett , Tallulah Bankhead , among the ones that wanted to contribute to the movie , yet , they were not chosen . David O . Selznik comes across as a disorganized genius who had no idea about what he was doing . His memos to the cast and crew were something not to be believed . Some people resented this way of communication . His battle with George Cukor is also told and how Victor Fleming , who by all accounts was not the perfect candidate , came to be the one that was able to complete the picture . There are some excellent comments , especially from Ann Rutherford and Evelyn Keyes , who explain what they saw while the film was in production . Some others also come on to tell us their view about what the film changed their lives and the experience of having worked with a mad man who was so intent in getting the movie done . It's a good thing this film was done during the 1930s because it would probably had cost more than 200 million in today's dollars ! Thanks to director David Hinton this epic movie is examined and put in its proper context to help the viewer understand the way Hollywood worked during the time it decided to convert the book into a movie .
Three lives	Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu has come out with another winner with this new film . The movie is co-written with his collaborator , Guillermo Arriaga , the one also responsible for " Amores Perros " . In a way , this film , if one compares it with the previous work , is a variation on the same theme , as in the other picture . Mr . Gonzalez Inarritu evidently has a knack for the kinds of stories in which fate is at the center of the action , or is it coincidence ? What brings these three different lives together ? He seems to be telling us these characters are very much connected , even though no has a knowledge of the others . The acting is first rate . Naomi Watts is brilliant in her approach to Cristina , the young mother who is at the center of the story . This is a very talented woman who loses herself in whatever woman she plays . She is never boring to watch . Also , Melissa Leo . What an incredible actress ! I have seen her many times on stage , but in this film she goes beyond our expectations . The other incredible work in the film is by Benicio del Toro . He gives life to this Jack Jordan , a loser , who has seen the light and is trying to redeem himself . Much has been said about Sean Penn's acting in this film , but his Paul Rivers is an enigma . By the end of the film we keep wondering about him , but only the other three keep haunting our mind . Mr . Penn is very good in the movie , but my feeling was that we never knew him , or perhaps the other characters are stronger and therefore one's reaction to this tormented soul he plays . Let's hope the team responsible for this film won't make us wait very long for their next collaboration . Mr . Gonzalez Unarritu proves he is a talented director in his native Mexico as well as in the American cinema .
Edmond awakens to reality	Edmond looks like a man that is not in touch with reality , when one first meet him . He is leaving the office and is told an appointment has been rescheduled for 1 . 15pm and it's handed a piece of paper with those numbers . The next thing he knows is he is standing in front of a fortune teller shop that has the same number on the door . As the cards are read , it appears Edmond is doomed . Those digits will prove fateful when he sees again that number 115 . Edmond Bruke is a man that has not dealt with reality for quite some time . After leaving his wife , he tries to assert himself with dismal results . He has no clue of what's going on in the seamy world of sex clubs . His reaction toward the price of drinks at the Allegro club , that was recommended to him by a man he has met before , shows an individual that has no clue as to what is going on . Edmond will try to bargain the price with other people he encounter , something strange from a man that one assumes has been a law abiding citizen all his life . It's hard to realize that Edmond will be naive enough not to think the three card Monte players are just plain hoodlums , as they blatantly cheat him , then proceed to rob him and beat him . Edmond keeps going in his pursuit of getting sex in the wrong places , with the wrong people . His encounter with a hustler makes him snap out of his old self and assume a new , more aggressive personality . This proves fatal during his encounter with the sweet Glenna , a waitress who should have known better than to have anything to do with this loose cannon . At the end , Edmond is caught in the same web he spun around him ; he is reduced to being a victim once again because his black partner will make him rethink all his prejudices when he is rendered helpless against a formidable foe . Since no one will listen to him , he joins the list of the people he resented before . His ranting and raving about who he hated before is made useless by what he has to endure at the end . Stuart Gordon , the director of " Edmond " , has done an amazing job in bringing David Mamet's play to the screen . It's typical Mamet dialog , terse and to the point . The only thing about the main character is disbelief in the transformation this sad man undergoes right before our eyes . Edmond appears to be a victim of the same society in which he lived before oblivious to people other than himself and his circumstances . That comes into question as he decides to try his luck among people that are completely opposite of what he is . Edmond , in the end , has to pay for his own mistakes in ways that abase him and his manhood . The obvious reason for watching this film is to catch a magnificent actor in action . William H . Macy has been associated with David Mamet for many years and it shows he is the man to translate that language for us . There is no false movements in his amazing performance . One cannot think another actor who could have done better justice to Edmond Burke the way Mr . Macy has . The other actor that comes close to perfection is Joe Mantegna , whose brief appearance in a pivotal role enhances the film . Both Mr . Mantegna and Mr . Macy are worth the admission price to the film . Bookem Woodbine , Julia Stiles , Debi Mazar , and the others in the cast do what they can , but they're overshadowed in their scenes with Mr . Macy . The great jazzy musical score by Bobby Johnston plays well within the context of the film . Denis Maloney's inspired cinematography shows the streets of Los Angeles , that are supposed to be seen as Manhattan's shabby side , in all its tacky seediness . Stuart Gordon shows great affinity to the work of David Mamet as shown in the finished product .
No nonsense women !	I once read about an audition of models for an Armani fashion show . It appears the Milanese designer was rejecting everyone because he thought they were too fat to carry his clothes the way he intended . If anyone reading this comment is friendly with Giorgio , please advise him to avoid seeing this film . He's liable to have a series of strokes , or even a fatal heart attack ! What Patricia Cardoso has achieved with this film is to clarify for us that indeed , beauty is in the eye of the beholder , and that we should not judge the person by the image they project . What might be considered fat and ugly for the same media that only glorify the skinny people that populate the pages of the different fashion magazines , for someone else will be beautiful . America Ferrera is a revelation . She exudes sweetness and the performance is right on the money . Her dreams to get out of the mediocrity of the factory life her mother wants for her are to be applauded because she has the smarts to make a career for herself and go to college . The great Lupe Ontiveros plays the mother . It's a shame that this actress haven't been discovered by more directors that will employ her talents in the way she deserves . She can bring so much to a film as proved in other independent films where she has appeared . Wherever she appears one can expect the very best from her . The rest of the cast is very good . We shall be looking forward to Ms . Cardoso's next venture with the confidence that whatever she undertakes it will be a fun time at the movies .
The conversation	Friendship between two men who can communicate their ideas to each other is a rare commodity . Women , it seems , are more in touch with their own feelings and they are more open to express how they feel . In contrast , men are always more reserved in the way they express to a friend things that are so deep and so different that it takes two great individuals to have an honest exchange without being cautious . To bear one's inner thoughts to a another man is not something frequently done . As in the case of Wallace Shawn and Andre Gregory , two friends who haven't seen one another in quite some time , a dinner brings the two men together in ways they probably didn't think possible . In the case of Mr . Shawn , he is seen at the beginning of the film walking the streets of downtown Manhattan thinking about how he doesn't want to meet with Andre Gregory in his present frame of mind . After all , he is a struggling playwright who has not had a success in the theater in some time . At the arrival at the restaurant , Wallace Shawn seems out of place . In spite of the way he looks , don't be fooled by his appearance . This man grew up in the midst of affluence . He is the son of the legendary editor of The New Yorker magazine , William Shawn . As a child Wallace Shawn was surrounded by literary celebrities through his father . Andre Gregory , is a great conversationalist . He clearly dominates what he has to say to Mr . Shawn because , after being successful in the New York theater world , he decided to give all that up in order to do what he really wanted , to explore the world to its fullest . His wonderful stories recount his experiences in Poland , Tibet , Scotland , and other parts of the world , where he meets an assortment of people that enrich his life experience . Conversation between true friends involve listening carefully , something which Mr . Shawn is great at . He never interrupts Mr . Gregory , whose wonderful tales evoke images of discovery and the occult and make perfect sense in the context of the conversation . After all , these men are sophisticated individuals who have been exposed to a lot and would not bat an eye when something that might seem preposterous comes out in the conversation . It took an excellent director , Louis Malle , to see the possibilities in a film about these two people talking without any action . Instead of being bored , we are riveted to what the two men are talking about and the camera of Mr . Malle follows them attentively without even hinting we are looking at something that was planned in advance . For all practical purposes Mr . Malle makes us ' peeping toms ' as we listen to the exchange . " My Dinner with Andre " is a wonderful movie that will delight viewers with open minds as we eavesdrop on the meeting of two friends talking about things that might be out of our own experiences , but who are fascinating to listen tell their stories for our benefit .
Blithe spirit	This thought provoking movie was another surprise from talented Argentine director Eliseo Subiela , one of the most innovative men on the scene . Again , he has brought Dario Grandinetti , his best collaborator , and one would imagine , alter ego , to give life to a man who dares to question what if dreams can be recorded and then projected on a screen when the person is awake . Leopoldo , who works as a projectionist in a run down cinema in Buenos Aires , knows the end is near before the theater is sold by Don Mario to a some kind of religious group . What is he to do ? His wife , who works at home as a beautician , doesn't make much . He is involved with a friend , Oscar , in the development of a robot they have called " Carlitos " after their idol , Carlos Gardel , the famous Argentine tango singer . It's at this time that an image begins to take shape in his mind . It's fuzzy at first , but then she appears to him in all her beauty . Rachel , the gorgeous ghost , can only be seen by Leopoldo . She reminds him that at one time he had been her beloved husband , William Dickson , a man that had worked closely with Thomas Edison in the invention of the movies . While William had taken human form , she has not been back , as she hasn't reincarnated , but she has come back because Leopoldo's dreams are always about her . Leopoldo falls deeply in love with Rachel's ghost , something his loving wife Susana , resents , although she has no clue of what's going on in her husband's mind . He gets more distant in his quest for bringing Rachel to life . Oscar is the only one that understands what is going on in his friend's mind and supports him . The only way that Leopoldo can have Rachel is if she would reincarnate , but then , their age difference would be too much . By the end , Susana , who has not been able to conceive a child , unexpectedly gets pregnant . It is at this time we know a miracle has occurred and since Leopoldo can't have Rachel , she will appear in his life in another form . Eliseo Subiela has created a film that makes us think , and at the same time , one can see where he is taking us . This is a joyful ride , because along the way we get Mr . Subiela to guide us in how he brings Leopoldo and Rachel back together , again . The director knows how humans are so deeply inter connected in ways one can't comprehend , yet one gets indication how the past keeps reuniting those souls that have mated for what appears to be eternity . Dario Grandinetti brings to his Leopoldo a mixture of doubt , at first , and then he rekindles the desire for his beloved Rachel . This actor is a natural and it's always a pleasure to watch him get inside his characters . Most of the best things he has done in the movies have been guided by Mr . Subiela , as it appears both men have reached the point that one knows what the other want and vice versa . The beautiful Mariana Arias , making her screen debut is perfect as Rachel who has been much more connected to Leopoldo than he thought possible . Ms . Arias projects intelligence in a role that with someone else might have not been as effective as she made it . Oscar Martinez is Leopoldo's partner , an inventor of great resources who never questions his friend about what his friend is going through . Monica Galan and Tincho Zabala play Susana and Don Mario . A film highly recommended for admirers of Eusebio Subiela and Dario Grandinetti .
Sleepless in Tokyo	What happens when one arrives in Tokyo after an extremely from a long flight ? Either one goes to sleep , or one ends up with a severe case of insomnia , as Bob Harris , finds out to be the case . What does one do when one is trying to catch up on some badly needed sleep in a foreign hotel ? One watches television . But what if the language is Japanese and one can't comprehend a word of what is being said ? One heads for the bar , if it is open , and proceed to get drunk and get into trouble . . . Such is the premise of Ms Coppola's incredible incisive film . It's curious how she has gotten inside the character of Bob Harris . She knows him very well . It is to her credit that she has balanced all the right elements to come out with this magnificent film that has a look of someone with a lot of film experience behind . I was not a fan of her previous film , The Virgin Suicides , but this one has its heart in the right place . She really knows what she is doing , which , for a second time film director to have achieved , it's a lot . Ms Coppola has been able to get magnificent performances from her two principal actors : Bill Murray and Scarlet Johansson . Bill Murray , above all is perfection personified . His take on this has been Hollywood actor , Bob Harris , is so true that it hurts . There are layers upon layers that Mr . Murray brings to his portrayal of this lonely man who has seen better days , and now has to go make commercials in Japan to make a living since probably no one at home remembers him . On the other hand , the Charlotte of Scarlet Johansson is a triumph as well for this young actress . She exudes such an intelligence that one might think she is a much older person than what she really is . She is in a hopeless situation married to a photographer who obviously is in his own little world to realize what a precious gift he has in his wife . It is inevitable that these two lost souls are drawn into each other in this strange place where they don't seem to even fit . The film is a bittersweet comedy . Bob and Charlotte communicate in ways they don't seem to be able to talk with their own spouses . The attraction is mutual . One can see they belong together despite the age difference . At the end there is a hint that maybe they will be united after all . Ms Coppola's view on the culture differences are hysterical . Her take on the Japanese may not be politically correct , but it makes a lot of sense in the context of having the tables turned on the Americans that are in that country making millions , and never taking a moment to try to understand what is in front of them . It is only Charlotte who shows a spirit of adventure in enjoying the magnificent scenery of Kyoto and other religious sites in Tokyo . Great things are in store for the viewer in future films directed by Sofia Coppola , I am sure .
The unsinkable ship	" A Night to Remember " is an extraordinary film that gives a magnificent account of the Titanic tragedy . The film is based on Walter Lord's book that describes what happened to the ship , that by all accounts , could not sink . The wonderful script illuminates on the facts of that fateful night in which the Titanic sank in the North Atlantic ; it was written by Eric Ambler , in a fabulous adaptation for the screen . We had seen this film years ago . On second viewing , the movie has kept its impact on us like no other . The amazing cinematography of Geoffrey Unsworth looks as crisp as when it was first released . Contributing to the enjoyment of the film , Sidney Hayers ' editing is excellent , as is the music by William Alwyn . This film shot in London's Pinewood Studios seems real , given the technology of the movies in those days . The human tragedy aboard the Titanic comes across vividly and with high intensity , as the director , Ray Ward Baker , kept everyone moving in perfect formation . One of the many achievements he was able to get from his cast and crew was this precise staging of the story . There is not a false moment in the movie . In keeping the film narrative as a documentary , Mr . Baker gets amazing results from everyone . Among the large English cast , Kenneth More , has the most important part of the ensemble players . Some of the best English actors , working in films at that time , are seen in the movie . The more prominent faces one sees are Honor Blackman , David McCallum , Alec McCowen , Michael Bryant , among others serve the film well in roles that intermingle without making anyone shine over the rest . " A Night to Remember " was one of the best English films of the period and it is gratifying to have seen it again after many years looking so well . This is a film to treasure .
Waiting to exhale	Cleo , a young singer in Paris , visits a woman who reads Taro cards . It's clear to the seer that Cleo's future is an enigma , at best , judging by the cards she has picked . When Cleo goes , she even tells her husband she has just seen death , and what's more , cancer , being the cause of it , which is what the young woman fears the most . What follows is Cleo trying to make sense of her life before she hears the inevitable fate she fears . Cleo runs into friends and goes all over Paris at a feverish pace , not knowing what will her doctor tell her is the cause that brought her to see him in the first place . At the same time , Cleo never appears to really be concerned , or evidently has made up her mind about the worst case scenario of her medical condition . It is not until almost the end of the film that Cleo runs into the kind soldier , Antoine , in the park . He is concerned about the conflict in Algeria . Antoine too , must face an uncertain future because he will be sent to fight . Antoine turns out one of the best things that happen to Cleo because of his positive outlook at a time when she feels despondent because of what appears it will be a death sentence . Agnes Varda , a director with a large trajectory in the French cinema , was at her best when she undertook this project . Ms . Varda , a feminist , never received her due by the same people that went to praise her male contemporaries . The film shows the contrast between a Cleo that is expecting such dire news and the life of the city around her . Ms . Varda employed three men to capture the magnificence of the city of Paris as Cleo goes through different parts of the city . This is a Paris that is not the sort of touristy version one is accustomed to seeing in some other glossy pictures . Thus , the black and white cinematography of Paul Bonis , Alain Levent and Jean Rabier show in vivid detail a city alive and in all its splendor while the main character is having doubts about what life has for her in store . Corinne Marchand is perfect as the young Cleo . Ms . Marchand is about the best thing in the film . She is always at the center of almost every frame in the picture . Antoine Bourseiller who appears as Antoine makes a tremendous contribution even when he is only seen at the last moments of the movie . Dominique Davray , Dorothee Blank , have good moments . Michel Legrand shows up as a pianist , as well as the composer of the musical score . " Cleo de 5 a 7 " is also a fun film where to watch such French film stars as Anna Karina , Yves Robert , Jean-Claude Brially , Danielle Delorme , Sami Frey , the excellent Eddie Constantine , and even Jean-Luc Goddard appear in cameos . In a way , Agnes Varda pays tribute to Mr . Godard by imitating his style in the way she conceives the film . This 1960 film shows the talented Agnes Varda on her own merits in a film that is a tribute to life itself .
Some times , when they least expect it . . . . .	There are occasional times when all the elements come together to make a great film that will stand the passing of time . " Double Indemnity " seems to be an example of this phenomenon . First , there was a great novel by one of America's best mystery writers , James Cain , who created these characters that seem will live forever in our imagination . Then , the lucky break in getting the right man to direct it , Billy Wilder , a man who knew about how to make a classic out of the material that he adapted with great care and elegance with Raymond Chandler , a man who knew about the genre . " Double Indemnity " works because it's a story we can relate to . There is a greedy woman trapped in a bad marriage , who sees the opportunity when she encounters an insurance agent who is instantly smitten with her and who has only sex in his mind . The manipulator , Phyllis Dietrichson , doesn't need much to see how Walter desires her . His idea of having her husband sign an insurance policy he knows nothing about , thinking he is doing something else , will prove a fatal flaw in judgment . Mr . Wilder achieves in this film what others try , with disastrous results . The director , who was working under the old Hays Code , shows so much sex in the film with fully clothed actors , yet one feels the heat exuding from the passion Walter Neff feels for Phyllis . He is a man that will throw everything away because he is blinded by the promise of what his life will be once the husband is out of the picture . In life , as well as in fiction , there are small and insignificant things that will derail the best laid plans . First , there i Jackson , the man who shouldn't have been smoking at the rear of the train , contemplating the passing landscape . Then , no one counts in the ability of Barton Keys , the man in the agency who has seen it all ! Walter and Phyllis didn't take that into consideration and it will backfire on their plan . We try to make a point to take a look at " Double Indemnity " when it shows on cable from time to time . Barbara Stanwyck makes a magnificent Phyllis . There are no false movements in her performance . Phyllis gets under Walter's skin because she knows where her priorities lie and makes good use of them in order to render Walter helpless under her spell . Fred McMurray makes a perfect Walter . He is consumed by his passion and he will do anything because of what he perceives will be the reward for doing the crime . Walter Neff was perhaps Mr . McMurray's best creation . He is completely believable and vulnerable . Edgar G . Robinson , as Barton Keys , makes one of his best performances for the screen . Keys is a man that has seen all the schemes pass by his desk . He is , in a way , Walter's worst nightmare , because working next to Keys , he gets to know how wrong he was in the planning of the crime . The supporting cast is excellent . Porter Hall , Jean Heather , Tom Powers , Richard Gaines , Fortunio Buonanova and John Philliber are perfect . The music score of Miklos Rosza gives the film a texture and a dimension that capitalizes on the action it intends to enhance . Also the music of Cesar Franck and Franz Schubert contribute to the atmosphere of the movie . The great cinematography of John Seitz , who will go on to direct films , is another asset in the movie . Edith Head's costumes are absolutely what a woman like Phyllis would wear right down to her ankle bracelet . This film shows a great man at his best : Billy Wilder !
A trip to Oz	" Yellow Brick Road " is a documentary that steals our heart away . Watching these young people prepare for the production of " The Wizard of Oz " , based on the MGM film , opens our eyes to the transformation they are going through . Directors Keith Rondinelli and Matthew Makar pay tribute to the earnest mentally challenged kids that are showcased in the documentary and the fantastic teachers that love , help , and guide them . The documentary works because of the sweetness and innocence all the young people bring with them . It's also wonderful the way their teachers involve them in a play that obviously resonates with all of them . For this viewer the highlight of " Yellow Brick Road " happens at the beginning as one young woman is selected to play Ms . Gulch , the role played by Margaret Hamilton in the film . It's hard not to cry watching her reaction as she almost hyperventilates from the emotion . Thanks to Mr . Rondinello and Mr . Makar for sharing their experience and introducing us to a bunch of real winners . The documentary is positive and it should be seen by many people , as it shows us a group of kids who might be mentally challenged , but have the right attitude , and are so positive despite of their problems .
HMOs and the health mess	For better , or worse , Michael Moore , is the " enfant terrible " of the American documentary . " Sicko " , his latest effort , presents his views on a terrible , and sad , phase of this country's health care . Mr . Moore's role has always been to provoke , in order to awake people to pay attention of his latest crusade . As such , " Sicko " , is part fact and part entertainment . One of the most effective part of the documentary is the conversation between Richard Nixon , the then president who is partly responsible for the mess this country is in matters of health care , and his aide John Ehrliman as they discuss the problem . Another great moment arrives when a witty Hillary Rodham Clinton is about to be grilled by Dick Armey in Congress at the height of the Clinton health plan . She outsmarts this once powerful man with her wit and dry sense of humor . In a way , one has been told about the problem with the health systems in different countries , Canada , being the best example . In order to dispel fears , Mr . Moore embarks in a journey to explore the myth and the result seems to he in his favor . Other countries are examined as well , England , and France , countries where if one is to believe the people interviewed , seem to have excellent health plans deal that give people a handle on this important problem . These systems aren't inexpensive . To keep these plans alive , the European societies are heavily taxed to cover the free medical coverage . The most fun in the film involves the Cuban episode , where Mr . Moore decides to take a few people with medical problems to Guantanamo naval base , where if one hears the Washington politicians , the so-called terrorists are treated much better than regular American citizens . After not being admitted in the base , Mr . Moore must find a ride to Havana to bring his patients for treatment for their different ailments . Of course , this sequence is not real because we know of people with Cuban relatives who must send medicines to Cuba because of the lack of it in the island , despite of what is given freely to these visitors Mr . Moore brings to the biggest hospital in Havana . That's the most unrealistic part of the film , as far as we are concerned . Having had the experience of being hospitalized and incurring the high price for the care received , seems almost an indecent price one has to pay in order to be well in America . The documentary ends in a funny note as we watch Mr . Moore climbing the steps of the capitol to bring his dirty laundry for the congress to clean .
Some of the eight million stories of New York City	Not having seen " The Naked City " in quite some time , the opportunity of watching it again was a pleasure , when TCM showed it last night . This satisfying 1948 film brings us back to the way New York , and especially Manhattan looked at that time . The Lower East Side , especially , in all its chaotic splendor offers a nostalgic look to our past . It took the genius of Jules Dassin to see the opportunities for bringing this story by Malvin Wald to the screen . Albert Maltz worked on the screen play with Mr . Wald and the result is a movie that shows the diverse culture of the city . Although the film is about crime in New York City , there are aspects of it that shows how most of what we see is interconnected . This film was the basis for a successful , and innovative television series that showed a different crime story every week and how the NYPD dealt with solving the cases . The film starts with a drunk being knocked out and thrown into the river . A woman is discovered dead in her bathtub by her maid . It's determined chloroform was involved in her death . Enter Lt . Muldoon , whose precinct gets involved in the investigation . Muldoon and his right hand man , Det . Jimmy Halleran , also find out jewelry is missing . The dead woman Jean Dexter , a fashion model , leads the police to a Dr . Stoneman , a man that loved her . At the same time , another detective discovers a cigarette case that points to another man , Frank Niles , who also appears to be involved . The drunk in the river was a jewelry thief and he , in turn , points to Harmonica Willie , a tough guy with a criminal record . All the elements come together in a great finale that involves a chase on the Williamsburg bridge . Jules Dassin decided to bring his cameras to the streets showing what a real New York looked like and got an excellent performance from most of the people that had no idea they were providing themselves as extras for the film . William Daniels , Greta Garbo's favorite cameraman , and distinguished a director himself , photographed the city in all its glory . All the principals do an excellent work in the film . Barry Fitzgerald as Lt . Muldoon shows in fine form . Don Taylor plays Jimmy Halleran . A fine performance from a young Howard Duff , as Frank Niles , is one of the best things in the picture . Ted DeCorsia is seen as a criminal who loves to keep in shape and play his harmonica . But what made the film fun for this viewer are the uncredited faces in the picture . We spotted Paul Ford , John Randolph , Nehemiah Persoff , Molly Picon , David Opatashu , and other character actors of that era . It says a lot about their generosity in appearing without being mentioned , something that today would appear unimaginable . Credit must go to Jules Dassin for this enormously satisfying movie !
Angel and Nene	Marcelo Pineyro , one of the best directors from Argentina , surprises with every new effort . Working on this film with Marcelo Figueras , he also contributed to bring Ricardo Piglia's novel to the screen with unexpected results . The novel was based on a real criminal case that happened in Buenos Aires in the 1960's . The two men at the center of the story are gay lovers who happened to be criminals . These two men share a passion that comes across on the screen like no other in recent memory . Angel , the Spaniard , wants to go to New York and Nene , his lover , wants to comply , but first they must attend to the assault of a vehicle that brings money to one bank . During the heist Angel is shot on his shoulder . Things are so hot for all the people involved , they flee to Uruguay . This was perhaps a miscalculation , because they are being followed by the Argentine police , that is working with local authorities in apprehending all the criminals . Nene is restless . He decides to leave the safe house , and finds Giselle , a beautiful woman who falls in love with him . At this point , we are of two minds , is Nene really cheating on Angel , or is he trying to use Giselle into providing another place where they can hide ? The violent end comes in a finale that doesn't have anything to envy to any other movies of the genre . The best thing in the film are the two leads . Leonardo Sbaraglia is one of the best actors that have come out of Argentina lately . He does an amazing job in portraying Nene . Eduardo Noriega , is also a Spanish actor that has done excellent work before and he shows his range in a magnificent performance as Angel . Leticia Bredice is Giselle , the young woman in Montevideo who befriends , then fall in love with Nene . The film proves Marcelo Pineyro is a voice to be reckoned with and who has an enormous talent for giving his audience his best .
Love Sicilian style	Imagine the life of Baron Ferdinando Cefalu , an impoverished middle aged man who has fallen in love with his young cousin Angela . In the society of Agramonte , Sicily , of that time , being poor was endurable , but the pangs of love Ferdinando feels in his heart , is consuming him , but his bigger problem is he is married to Rosalia , a woman who truly loves him , or so it seems . What could a man do in Ferdinando's shoes ? Nothing , since in the Italy of those years divorce was not allowed , either by the state , or the church . The only possible solution to solve Ferdinando's problems is in trying to kill Rosalia . In the Italian penal code of the times , people could plea guilty in trying to avenge their honor and would get lesser sentences . Rosalia , who has no idea of what's going on , has a secret of her own . Years ago , she had been in love with Carmelo Patane , a man who went to war and on his return found that his beloved Rosalia had already married Baron Ferdinando ! It's the Baron , who discovers the letters Rosalia likes to read on the sly , late at night . Ferdinando devises a plan that will bring Carmelo to repaint some of the frescoes of the old palatial home , hoping Rosalia and the painter will try to reacquaint themselves , as it's obvious that even though Carmelo is married , he still loves Rosalia ! The Baron , who has bought a tape recorder , and spies on his wife and the painter , knows the end is in sight and gambling on getting a short jail time , goes ahead with his plans . Little does he know what his life with Angela will be like ! " Divorce Italian Style " , directed by Pietro Germi , was a satire about Italian law that allowed such practices to take place . In a complete Catholic society , people got married for life , literally . Since there was no divorce , couples who found out they were not compatible had to keep on staying married because divorce was not an option . Pietro Germi and his collaborators take a look at how , with some clever research , imagination , and ingenuity , an unhappily married man could get a release from those restricting marital vows . Marcello Mastroianni was perfect as Baron Ferdinando Cefalu . The actor clearly knew this man and the mentality of men like his character . His facial expressions are worth the price of the rental of this wonderful Criterion DVD . Mastroianni , one of the best film actors of his generation gives one of the best performances of his career . Daniella Rocca , who plays Rosalia , makes a great contribution to make this film the winner it is . Leopoldo Trieste , another important figure in the Italian cinema , appears as Carmelo Patane , the painter who never stopped loving Rosalia . Stefania Sandrelli , is seen briefly as the object of Ferndinando's passion and love . The DVD transfer has kept the film black and white cinematography of Carlo DiPalma and Leonida Barboni intact . We can see the sunny Sicilian town in all its splendor as captured by the camera of these men . Pietro Germi , the director and co-writer , delivered a film that is a classic because of the humanity , love and humor that went into this tremendously satisfying work .
Monsters among us	Showtime ought to be congratulated for its courage in bringing " Our Fathers " to the television screen as a film . Dan Curtis , the director , gives us a first rate account about this sad chapter of abuse to young children by Catholic priests . Those same priests were supposed to have been examples and role models for young children , but in violating that trust , these men committed crimes one never suspected them capable of doing . The book by David France , " Our Fathers : The Secret Life of the Catholic Church in an Age of Scandal " , gets an amazing screen treatment by Thomas Michael Donnelly . The books emphasizes the role of Cardinal Bernard Law in the whole affair . This sinister figure , who was able to get away with murder by resigning his post as the head of the Boston Diocese , is still not admitting his role in the cover up , even after everything is well known and documented . Father John Geoghan , the monster priest arrested and convicted of several sexual molestation charges , is one of the most repugnant figures involved in the scandal . We watch as this man is ordained with tears in his eyes in the early 60s . Father John is seen as a holy man who is quite charming hiding behind a facade of being good to the children . Parents love him because what they see a role model for their boys to follow . The film concentrates on Angelo DiFranco's story . Angelo is seen putting his own fist through a mirror in rage . This young man and his lawyer , Mitchell Garabedian , are instrumental into putting the lawyer in contact with Mary Ryan , a woman whose seven boys are sexually abused by father Geoghan . Mrs . Ryan is asked to keep quiet . The other priest in the story , Father Joseph Birmingham , is also responsible for abuses to other children . Another accuser , Olan Horne , brings it to the attention of Cardinal Law , who is arrogant and indignant about the accusations . Cardinal Law makes a point to tell Olan that Christ hasn't done anything wrong , if anything , he was the one instrumental in his failure as the man who could have solved the problem , but didn't . In the end we watch Cardinal Bernard Law with tears in his eyes as he resigns . Unfortunately , much too late ! The performances are first rate . Christopher Plummer as the sinister cardinal does an excellent performance . Chris Bauer and Daniel Baldwin , two talented young actors , are seen as Olan Horne and Angelo DiFranco , respectively . Ted Danson , as the lawyer is not as effective , maybe because we don't see him as Mr . Garabedian at all . Brian Dennehy is good as Father Spagnolia . Ellen Burstyn is a great Mary Ryan , full of rage and bitter for what the evil priest did to her sons . Steve Shaw plays the evil Father Geoghan . The tragedy that was done to innocent children by these heartless men will stay in the victim's memories forever . More than likely , these monster priests were abused themselves as children , and now they feel it's their turn to keep the practice going .
Our man in Rio !	This forgotten film brilliantly directed by Joseph L . Mankiewicz is one of the best spy films we have seen in recent memory . The film holds the viewer in suspense up the last frame . Mr . Mankiewicz was working on the fine screen play written by Michael Wilson , based on a real incident told by L . C . Moyzisch , a German officer who is a key player in the story . The film opens in Ankara , Turkey's capital during WWII . The place is swarming with spies and intrigues . We are taken to a reception where we encounter Countess Anna , a beautiful woman of uncertain age , who is living below her means in the country . Anna asks for monetary help to a German officer , who she has met before . At this point , we meet Diello , a valet to the English ambassador to Turkey . Diello has a proposal for Moyzisch , a German connected to the embassy . He proposes a deal where he will cooperate in spying for the Germans in exchange of heavy amounts of money . Since Diello needs a front , Countess Anna , becomes the a desirable object for this man's plans in how to conduct the business . Thus the impoverished countess agrees to the plan . Countess Anna becomes a hostess who gathers in her new elegant surroundings the cream of the diplomatic society . The countess goes along with the scheme , but at the same time , she deeply resents the idea of having Diello , a man that is not from her circle and background , be treated as her equal . The film works because what we see is what really happened . This being a real story , is not something that came out of some writer's imagination . On the contrary , we are completely astounded in the way this Diello was able to fool his superiors at the embassy . We watch as Diello goes about the business of spying right at the ambassador's office without being caught . There are two ironic twists to the story that come as complete surprises to us . In a way , because one is not expecting , the first one is the betrayal to Diello by the heartless countess , and the second one is at the conclusion of the film . This last one is something that keeps us laughing along with Diello and in turn to the woman who double crossed him . James Mason , is excellent as Diello . Mr . Mason was an actor that always delivered . In his English films , as well as some of his Hollywood movies , this actor projected such a powerful figure . His method of working always amazes because his performances always build up to unexpected results . The film belongs to Mr . Mason , who is terrific and charismatic . Danielle Darrieux , one of the best French film actresses of all times , makes a delightful appearance as Countess Anna . She transforms herself from a the woman trying to eke out a living to the sophisticated lady of a society she felt comfortable with because she was born into it . The supporting roles are quite good . The surprise was Herbert Berghof , one of the most famous acting teachers of all times making a rare appearance . " 5 Fingers " has a great black and white cinematography by Norman Brodine who captures some of those Turkish locales in all their splendor . The film score by Bernard Herrmann adds another dimension to the film . Thanks to Mr . Mankiewicz , this is a film that will please his admirers .
Two brothers	Marco Tullio Giordana deserves praise for bringing this saga about two brothers in Italy that spans a few decades and paints a picture about the country . Mr . Giordana and the writers of this series made for television , Sandro Petraglia and Stefano Rulli , painted a rich canvas of modern Italy as events of the last forty years surface in this gripping tale of two brothers and the people whose lives they touched . It's impossible to summarize the events we see in the film . After all , it's running time and all the things that happen are too numerous to mention . Suffice it to say , the story never loses the viewer's interest as proved when we recently watched the two part DVD . We had no idea what we were getting into , but almost by magic , Mr . Giordana and his collaborators took us to a wonderful trip . Best of all are the great characterizations Mr . Giordana was able to get from the two leads : Luigi LoCoscio and Alessi Boni , who play Nicola and Matteo Carali . Some excellent ensemble playing was also achieved by the large cast in this series . The inspired cinematography by Foberto Forza does wonders to enhance all we see . The score include music by Bach , Mozart and even Piazzolla . This is a triumph indeed for the director Mr . Giordana and all the people who contributed to make this a most unusual and poignant portrait of a people and a culture .
Thin ice	The first episode of Krzsztof Kieslowski sets the tone for the nine episodes that follow . Based loosely on the theme of the Ten Commandments , the director , and his collaborator , Krzsztof Piesiewicz , expanded on the idea of " I am the Lord , thy God , thou shalt not have any other God but me " , the first commandment of the ten . The premise is simple enough , yet there are so many things Kieslowski touches upon , that even a longer version of the commandment wouldn't come across as clear as the director presents it to his audience . We meet the young , sweet Pawel , whose father works at a university as a professor . Pawel comes home to ask his dad about subjects that coming from the mouth of such a young boy , make his father unsure about what to answer , even from a learned man like himself . Pawel and his father love their computers in which the father creates mathematic problems for the young boy to solve . They are also into playing chess . We watch as the father beats a woman who must be some sort of champion and has not lost until she plays the father . When Pawel discovers the hidden ice skates meant for him to have for Christmas , he asks his father's permission to go to the nearby lake . The father having checked his computer , and based on the numbers he got back , allows the boy to go skating but not to go too far out . Kieslowski makes Pawel question his father in all matters of life and death . The father gives his son answers from the way he perceives life around him ; after all , he is a man whose knowledge is based on science . The father's faith is questioned after the tragedy that involves Pawel and makes him look inside himself to make sense of the way things happened . Kieslowski makes clear that the world of science and the world of religion , while not mixing at all , clash because Krzsztof , the agnostic professor has no use for a higher , and unknown power . The three actors who appear in this segment are nothing short of perfection . Henryk Baranowski is the father . The excellent Maja Komorowska , plays Irina , the aunt , and the sweet Wojciech Klala is seen as Pawel . Kiewslowski , one of the most humanistic directors from Poland , clearly demonstrates why he was one of the best . His untimely death came much too early . He is sadly missed .
The letter	The fourth commandment is loosely adapted by Kryzsztof Kieslowski into a compelling tale about a secret that has been kept for a long time . In the hands of another man , the material would have probably been a disaster , but Mr . Kieslowski , a man with a great insight , makes an amazing job in keeping real and credible . The theme is " Honor thy father and mother " . Anka , a student of dramatic art , who lives with her widower father , Michal , in the same apartment block , as the rest of the people that surface in " The Decalogue " lives a normal life . Michal , the father , who is going abroad for a short trip , remembers at the airport he has forgotten to pay a bill and asks Anka to do it for him as soon as she gets back home . When Anka , arrives home , she discovers an envelope in a drawer of her father's desk marked " To be opened after my death " . The message triggers great curiosity on her , as she wants to know what could be such a secret her father wants to tell her from the beyond . The discovery of not being Michal's real daughter hits her like a ton of bricks . She can't imagine how could this man , who up to a few hours ago she thought was her father , could suddenly change the picture . Michal is surprised to find Anka at the airport at his return . She is frantic because of what she perceives as a deception . Anka doesn't take into consideration , for one moment , the enormous sacrifice Michal has gone through raising her without the help of a mother to guide Anka as she grows and matures . For a moment Anka's reaction acquires a shade of incest , because one can see it's possible she has loved Michal in a different way . By way of explanation , Michal , tells Anka , he was going to reveal the secret when Anka was a young girl , but for some reason , he thought it was the wrong moment . The second time he had tried to tell her the truth , he ended up keeping it within himself . As far as he knows , Anka is his daughter and that's all there is to it . His fatherly love has never ceased . Adrianna Biedrzniski , and Janusz Gajos are wonderful as Anka and Michal . Under Kieslowski's guidance these two actors bring to life characters that find themselves facing a crisis that has the potential of separating them forever . One feels for Michal , but it's easy to see how betrayed Anka must feel upon learning the truth .
Crime and punishment	Having seen the full length film Kieslowski made out of this episode of " The Decalogue " years ago , came back to this viewer as we watched the complete ten vignettes . As with the other films , this one is loosely based on the fifth commandment , or , " Thou shalt not kill " . Kryzsztof Kieslowski , writing with Kryzsztof Piesewicz , took a look at the mind of a young man who commits a heinous crime in murdering an innocent person to vent his own frustrations . This installment has a Dostoyevskian character that kept reminding us about " Crime and Punishment " , or at least some of the qualities of the novel are passed to the aimless youth who apparently has no redeeming qualities . The story shows the young man as he roams the streets of the city without a clear idea of what to do , or where to go . The only tender moment he displays is when he visits the photographer's place to ask to have an old picture of his sister restored . Kieslowski leaves it up to fate to have the murderer board a taxi with the intention of robbing the driver , but it's his anger and frustration that get the best of this youth to kill a man that didn't deserve to die . The last moments of this criminal is one of the most gripping sequences in any film , past , or present . The other element in the story is the relationship between the public defendant and the criminal . Nothing can prevent the court to condemn to death the young man . The lawyer feels at the end he has failed his client and goes to the judge to see where he went wrong . All he is asked by the young man is to retrieve the picture and send it to his mother . Kieslowski's account of how he interprets the fifth commandment makes for a surprising film that will stay in the viewer's mind long after this episode is forgotten .
Small time crooks	Cosimo , a small time criminal in Rome , decides to steal a car one night . He is too inept to get the job done , attracting the attention of the patrolling police . Landing in jail , Cosimo hears of a possibility for a caper , the only problem is , he still has to serve his time . With the help of his friends , a search for a man to come forward to confess to the actual crime would clear Cosimo . After asking around , without much success , Peppe , another street hustler , and womanizer , decides to do it for the money . Unfortunately , he ends up in jail and Cosimo too . Jail time proves to be an opportunity for Peppe to learn about the caper Cosimo has been so carefully planning . When Peppe is released , he looks for the men that would have been involved with Cosimo in the original plan . They include an assortment of petty street criminals who have no experience in how to go about doing the job . Enter Dante , a master safe cracker , who for money , will teach the gang how to open the safe at one of Rome's pawn shops . The only problem with the plan , Dante will not participate , thus leaving everything to Peppe and the gang . Peppe , who has met Nicoletta , the niece of the occupants of the apartment he thought was empty , has a short romance with the woman , from whom he learns when will the two old ladies be away . Involved in the gang is Mario , who discovers the beautiful Carmelina , sister of Ferribotti , a Sicilian man who is guarding her chaste for a possible good marriage . There is Tiberio , a photographer , whose wife is serving jail time and he is now taking care of his infant son . Campanelle , an inept older man who is always hungry , completes the gang . When the big night for the heist arrives , everything that could gone wrong , and more , is what happens . The men have absolutely no clue as to what to do , therefore , their plan will never be put in action . At the end , the gang come out empty handed , not before Campanelle discovers a pot of pasta and chick peas , which he praises to the others , who soon share the dish with him , agreeing how delicious it was . Mario Monicelli , the director , who also collaborated with the screen play , seemed to be doing a funny take off on the more serious " Rififi " , directed by Jules Dassin . That's where the comparison ends . Mr . Monicelli was more interesting in capitalizing in the comic aspects of a serious caper with a bunch of lunatics that have no clue what they really want . The result is one of the best movies of the fifties . The director was blessed in bringing together some of the best of the Italian cinema of the era . The wonderful Vittorio Gassman is Peppe , the man in charge of the caper . This legendary actor was at a great moment of his career , and although his character is not a serious one , he runs away with the film because he clearly understood what made Peppe tick . Toto , another magnificent actor plays Dante , who knows a thing , or two , about how to crack a safe . Renato Salvatori makes a good impression as Mario , who discovers he is in love with Carmelina . Marcello Mastroianni has a small role here , as Tiberio , the man with a wife in jail who must bring the infant son to all the gang meetings . Carlo Pisacane has some excellent moments as Campanelle . The same goes for Tiberio Murgia who as Ferribotte wants to protect his sister from all his male friends . The women in the film have lesser roles to play , but they clearly show they understood the material well . Carla Gravina makes a great Nicoletta . Claudia Cardinali appears as Carmelina , and lastly , Rosanna Rory is seen as Norma , Cosimo's girlfriend . The DVD we recently watched has been carefully transferred and looks as good as when the film was released . It helps that Monicelli employed cinematographer Gianni DiVenzano to capture his story in black and white . The jazzy score by Piero Umiliani goes along well with the action . Mario Monicelli directed with an eye for the picaresque in a film that is imitated , but never equaled .
The Brooklyn Brewsters	" Arsenic and Old Lace " , one of the best stage comedies that were seen on Broadway , gets the royal treatment via Frank Capra , a man that was born to direct the movie version , if ever there was a man to do so . The play written by Joseph Kisserling was given an excellent screen play treatment by the Julius and Philip Epstein team , two great movie adapters of all time . This is a combination of a madcap and a screwball comedy . The first best thing in the film are the star turn performances by two of the original actresses that created the roles of Aunt Abby and Aunt Martha , Josephine Hull and Jean Adair , respectively . Just to see the Brewster sisters in action is worth the price of admission . These two women had the roles of a career by bringing life into the two kinds souls living in Brooklyn and doing good , as well as " helping lonely old men " to find happiness . The second best reason for watching the film is Cary Grant . This is without a doubt one of the actor's best achievements in his long career in the movies ! Mr . Grant plays Mortimer Brewster , a man that hates the idea of getting married and losing his freedom . That is , until the beautiful Elaine comes along . Mr . Grant is a joy to watch in the film , no matter what he is doing , at any given moment . His expressions , as well as his timing is impeccable , something one expects of all of Mr . Capra's movies . The Brewster household is the center of the action , but for a stage play , it never seems confining , or theatrical , even though it's basically shot in one single set . This appears to be the Brooklyn area near the Heights where one can see the majestic bridge in the distant . Maybe around Old Fulton Street , or that area , where the River Cafe is located now . Mr . Capra was able to assemble such a wonderful group of the best actors working in movies . Lovely Priscilla Lane is the woman that conquered Mortimer's heart . Raymond Massey is Jonathan , the Dracula-like sinister figure that is Mortimer's brother . Also , John Alexander , is seen as " Uncle Teddy " , the man with a Teddy Roosevelt's complex . Peter Lorre makes a good contribution as Dr . Einstein . Jack Carson and John Ridgley are seen as the police working the area where the Brewster live . The supporting players are amazing : Edward Everett Horton , Garry Owen , Grant Mitchell , James Gleason , and although seen briefly , the great Charles Lane , who is one of the photographers pursuing Mortimer and Elaine when they are getting the marriage license . Mr . Lane appeared in hundred of films and is still alive , 100 years young ! In a way , it's ironic Mr . Lane survived almost all the people in the film ! An excellent film by that American master , Frank Capra !
All that glitters is " gone with the wind . . . . "	John Huston's genius as a director is undeniable . From his beginning he showed an uncanny knack for getting not only excellent acting from his actors , but his movies always had a social conscience as well . Mr . Huston loved Mexico and it shows in this film . It must have been a difficult task for him directing his own father in the movie . After all , Walter Huston was a major star on his own right . Both father and son made a great contribution , John behind the camera , Walter in front of it . Basically the story is about men that have drifted into Mexico to escape jail , or in search of riches , as it was the case of the men that fate brings together in a Tampico shelter . Dobbs , Howard and Curtin start out as partners searching for gold in the Sierra Madre . They find it , but as luck will have it , none of them will live to be rich from what they find in that remote place . In the most ironic of film endings , this one will be a classic . After the trio finds gold , greed sets in . Friendship turns sour and the three friends become enemies . When the bandits finally catch up with an exhausted Dobbs , trying to go north , they beat him up and discover some sacks full of sand . . . . Humphrey Bogart as Dobbs is excellent . Of course , Walter Huston made the best out of Howard , the clever old man who has seen a lot in his life . He is the only one that discovers a happiness living the simple life among the friendly Mexicans that welcome him into their community . Finally , Tim Holt , as Curtin is perfectly cast as an honest man who has gone into the adventure without any expectations . The final sequence of Howard and the peasants riding their horses into the ' yellow dust ' is amazing , as it it incredible . In retrospect , it seems to be telling us that sometimes dreams of becoming rich the easy way will not be sustained , but honest work will be more rewarding .
Charles Busch , a class act !	During the last quarter of the 20th century , New York saw the arrival of artists of the caliber of Charles Ludlum and Charles Busch . These men's love for the movies that had shaped their youth , started their own views of those idols when they established companies that capitalized on the type of ' ridiculous ' theater where they , in turn , reinterpreted the way those larger than life figures influenced them . While Charles Ludlum , the creator of the Theater of the Ridiculous , passed away at the peak of his creative years , Charles Busch went on to establish himself as one of the best exponents of this genre . Charles Busch's humble beginnings can be traced to his days at the Limbo Lounge where he and his friends would perform for his followers , most of whom were gay , and who really appreciated Mr . Busch's humor . It wasn't until the Establishment press , by way of a New York Times reporter , wrote about what Charles Busch and his clan were creating , that New Yorkers embraced this new type of hilarious insanity . Charles Busch's biggest hit was " Vampire Lesbians of Sodom " , a play that established him and his collaborators as legitimate exponents of this new form of theater . All this is the basis of this wonderful documentary shown recently on the Sundance Channel . As directed by John Catania and Charles Ignacio , we are taken to hear first hand by Charles Busch and his close friends and members of his group what it was all about . Mr . Busch is a kind man whose contributions have brought joy and entertainment to theater lovers . In the film we hear first hand accounts by Theresa Aceves , Kenneth Elliott , Julie Halston , Carl Andres , and others about what it was to be associated to Mr . Busch from those obscure days to the present . We also see interviews by such personalities as Boy George , Michael Musto , Paul Rudnick , Rosie O'Connell , Kathleen Turner , and B . D . Wong , among others where they give praise to an unique voice in the New York scene : Charles Busch !
Whispering Glades	Tony Richardson's " The Loved One " was seen recently courtesy of TCM . The film seems to have been forgotten by MGM , who didn't promote it the way it deserved when it was released . It's a tribute to Mr . Richardson that " The Loved One " should be discovered by appreciative fans that haven't have a chance to see this masterpiece by one of the cinema's most under appreciated master : Tony Richardson . This acerbic satire about the funeral business was written by Evelyn Waugh , an Englishman who saw the excesses about the art of preparing " the loved ones " for their final send off into eternity . The magnificent screen play is credited to Terry Southern and Christopher Isherwood , although other writers were also involved in its adaptation . The brilliant black and white cinematography by Haskell Wexler still has original crispness in the copy that was shown , which might have been because of a DVD format we saw . The story is seen through Dennis Barlow , a young Englishman who comes to L . A . for a visit . He looks for his uncle , Sir Francis Hinsley , who works for a movie studio . Sir Francis moves among the English expatriates that had a love / hate relationship with the film industry , but who had better lives than in England . At least , in Los Angeles , they were seen as a rarity with tremendous panache , in sharp contrast with the uneducated heads of studios and so-called stars . When Sir Francis dies in tragic circumstances , the Brits decide to appoint young Dennis to select the proper way to bury him . That's how Dennis comes to Whispering Glades , the ultimate resting place for the privileged and the famous . To say he suffers culture shock , is to put it mildly . Nothing prepares him for the excesses he sees in the place , that is being run by the mysterious Rev . Wilbur Glenworthy . It's here that he meets and falls in love with Aimee , the girl that is promoted to be the first woman embalmer . He is shown about what to order by the unctuous Mr . Sarles who wants him to pick the best the place has to offer . Dennis is also puzzled by the way the embalmer , Mr . Joyboy , has prepared Sir Francis for his friends to see him at the place . Dennis , not having a job , is recruited by Henry Glenworthy in helping with the pet cemetery . He meets enough weirdos to last a lifetime . Henry , a businessman himself , decides to add a novel way to send the pets skyward by hiring young Gunther . The devilish Rev . Wilbur sees the invention and wants it for Whispering Glades . In an incredible finale , young Gunther achieves greatness by creating the send off to end all send offs . The amazing thing about " The Loved One " is the performances Tony Richardson got out of all the actors in the film . Robert Morse is Dennis , a naive in the land of fantasy . Jonathan Winters playing dual roles of Henry and Wilbur Glenworthy , is in top form . Rod Steiger as the mad embalmer , Mr . Joyboy , has one of the best moments of his career . Anjanette Comer shows an affinity for Aimee . John Gielgud makes a wonderful Sir Francis . Paul Williams is young Gunther . But Liberace , who wasn't known as an actor , makes a devastating appearance as the salesman in the Whispering Glades showroom , the man who wants to offer nothing but the best for " the loved one " in his final appearance . One can only wish " The Loved One " is seen by a lot of movie fans , as this is a tribute to the man who directed it : Tony Richardson .
A botched robbery	Sidney Lumet , one of the best directors working today , has come out with one of the best films of his career . This crime movie , written by Kelly Masterson , packs a lot of action in its 123 minutes of running time . Mr . Lumet who hasn't had a big success with any of his movies lately , vindicates himself with this tale of murder in suburbia . The story is being told from different angles and perspectives giving another layer of texture to the film . Andy , who we first meet having sex with his wife in a Brazilian hotel , is a man of huge appetites . He has an expensive drug habit which he subsidizes with moneys from the company in which he is an executive of sorts . Andy finds himself in a position which doesn't let him a lot of leeway if he is to keep his love for drugs , and to keep his cheating wife . His brother , Hank , is quite the opposite of Andy , a born loser . Andy has plans to involve his sibling in his get rich scheme . That's why Andy devises a plot to hold up a store in a suburban mall . He enlists Hank to execute the operation . The only trouble is that the jewelry store they plan to hit belongs to his and Hank's own parents . Bobby , a hit man , is enlisted to help Hank do the robbery , but things do not go according to plan . As the pair proceeds to the store , Hank is to stay outside as Bobby scares the salesman . The only problem is that Hank's own mother Nanette , is the one that has come to the store and she is not afraid using a gun , killing Bobby , but she is wounded in action . This duo's father , Charles , is besides himself when he learns about the botched robbery and his own wife's being badly hurt . After she dies , Charles decides to look himself into the case . He is appalled when he realizes the truth ; he wants to get to the bottom of it , no matter who it hurts . Little does he realize the gravity of what has been perpetrated against him by his own sons . Philip Seymour Hoffman is Andy , the heartless man whose mind is dominated by the drugs he consumes . This actor is a joy to watch . He never repeats himself from film to film . He is worth the price of admission . Equally effective is Ethan Hawke , the brother that didn't amount to much and whose own life is in turmoil after the messy divorce to Martha . He can't even give his own daughter money for a school outing to see a play ! Making another great appearance , Albert Finney is excellent as a father that is horrified by the actions of his sons . It's no wonder Mr . Finney has lasted as long as he has because of his intelligence and his honesty in giving always his best . Marisa Tomei also makes a great Gina , the wife that is cheating her own husband with his own brother ! Amy Wright impresses in a minor role and so does Bryan O'Byrne with the small pivotal part as Bobby . Rosemary Harris has nothing to do , unfortunately . The film is a treat for all the fans of Mr . Lumet who shows once again why he has remain one of the most interesting men in the movies .
Bowling for Iraq	The only positive thing that could come out of people hating this extraordinary documentary would be for them to rush to enlist to go to fight in Iraq . The news media chides away from showing people like that lady from Flint , Michigan , who is , as far as I'm concerned , the true heroine of the film . Her pain at having lost her son in Iraq is , at times , hard to take . All I could hear around me was quiet sobbing as she was telling us the story of the death of her son . Another thing missing from this war is the arrival of the coffins draped with American flags . And for that matter , no cameras have gone into the hospitals where these young soldiers who have lost hands , arms , legs , are recuperating from wounds they have suffered from the war . The general public has been kept uninformed about these young people so no one can witness the end result of the war . The Iraqi conflict should have ended a long time ago if children of privileged Americans would have died as a result of their being there . In one of the most hilarious segments of the film , we see a few Congressmen scurrying away from questions presented to them by Michael Moore . Of course they have children , but , no , these kids will never see a day of combat in their lives . We'll never see the Bush twins in beautiful downtown Baghdag any day soon ! The biggest horror of it all is the killing of innocent people during the bombings . The images of children's bodies being dumped in communal donkey carts are too much to take , as is the case with the Iraqi woman who is shown crying in front of the camera as she mourns for five dead relatives that just died in an raid . Regardless how one feels about the present administration , the facts are there for anyone to see and reflect upon the atrocities presented in the documentary . War is hell , no matter how anyone sugar coats it .
