When Dracula meets lesbian porn . . .	To say it kindly ; this movie was absolutely terrible . The story is impossible to follow because nothing in it makes really sense . It makes this movie a very annoying one to watch . The movie is just a lame excuse to shoot some lesbian porn sequence's . And what was with the ending ? Was it supposed to be a surprise ending ? Anyway I didn't understood one thing about this movie , including the ultra-odd ending . Darian Caine is the most boring Dracula in movie history . It made me mad that they let her say classic Dracula lines , like ; Listen to them , children of the night , what music they make ! Her delivery of those lines is so absolutely horrible , she says it like a . . well , porn actress . And why was Jonathan Harker played by a female ? It was plain odd and the scene in which Mina finds out that Johnathan is in fact a lady is hilarious ! And Van Helsing ( also a female character in this movie ) shares the bed with Dracula ? I don't think so . . . OK , the cinematography and the directing really ain't that bad and the music is also pretty good , although the main theme is ripped off from Wojciech Kilar's " Dracula " from 1992 . This movie is style over substance you may say , only problem is that the style doesn't compensate for the substance . Yep , it bites . . .
What was that ?	Never has a movie been so dumb , silly , bad , ugly , awful at the same time . Is " Manos , the Hands of Fate " really that bad as everyone says it is ? Yes , it is and maybe even worse . What makes " Manos , the Hands of Fate " a bad movie is that it was made with no talent or imagination , quite sad to watch really . I don't know what is the worst ; The acting , the script , the sets , the editing . The most likely answer is that it's all just simply plain bad . Especially the editing is the worst I have ever seen . Some scene's seem to be endless while nothing is shown at it at all and most of the time they don't even have anything to do with the movie . The movie is full with this long endless shots that are really about nothing , very boring to say the least . The story is just laughable bad , if you asked me what it is about I think I can not even explain it . It's just about nothing and lot's of it makes no sense at all . It feels like someone is poking you in the brains with a stick . The movie is full with silly moments that makes you think ; What the is that ? The actors are by far some of the worst ever . They show absolutely no talent or what so ever . Then we come to the only good thing about the movie : Torgo . Oh boy what a character ! I doubt it was intentional but this guy is absolutely hilarious with his strange ticks and movements . He alone makes this movie still watchable . He is a real classic . I also must admit that I liked the ending a lot . I even found it surprising and shocking but a good ending can't save a bad movie . Congratulations Hal Warren , you created one of the very worst movies of all time , you make an Ed Wood movie seem like a masterpiece . A must see for bad movie lovers .
So bad , that it's not even funny . . .	Most of Ed Wood's movies are so bad that they make you laugh . " Night of the Ghouls " is so bad that it's not even funny ! At least other Wood movies are fun to watch because they have a certain campy feeling and goofy characters and dialogs . " Night of the Ghouls " doesn't have any of that . Everything about the movie is a failure and the story has more holes than a Swiss cheese . For instance the police are making fun of it and don't believe in ghosts but yet they have a much respected officer who is entirely specialized in hunting down ghosts , ghouls and women in white . And neither does Dr . Acula believe in ghosts and other things like that but yet he has Lobo as an henchman , who is about the biggest monster you can imaging . Oh and Dr . Acula , next time you're trying to escape don't run directly towards your enemies . The movie is just completely bad as an horror movie . I mean why would you be scared of a woman who all she does is stare . I don't know with what Ed Wood intended to scare the viewers with this one . Nothing in the movie was even close of what I would define as horror . The movie also has about the worst scene I've ever seen . The whole séance scene with 3 people sitting at one side of the table and 3 fake skeletons on the other while a trumpet flies around on a wire and some wacky ' comedy ' music can be heard and a white ghosts comes by every now and then , while a guy with a what appears to be a good old pisspot on his head make weird faces and speaks incredibly irritating . . . Oh wow , that was really the most awful thing I've seen since my neighbor stopped closing his curtains at night . It was really embarrassing to look at , it was so awful and sad that it didn't even made me laugh . Seriously the most awful scene I've ever seen in a movie as of yet . Well , at least Lobo is in it again . It seemed like the make-up was really blinding Tor Johson , he bumped in to a lot of things . And apparently he survived all of the events in " Bride of the Monster " but yet a few bullets from a police officer kills him ? As for Tor Johson himself , he was acting horrible but he is such an icon that he still maybe was the best thing about the movie . It was also kind of fun to see patrolman Kelton ( Paul Marco ) once more but seriously did they really had to give him such a large role ? The crazy narration by Criswell was also completely lame , although not as wacky as Bela Lugosi's in " Glen or Glenda " . Criswell also plays himself and the leader of the dead in this movie . It was a movie I did not enjoy watching and I was seriously bored at times . Even the Ed Wood fans will end up disappointed by this . There is not a lot to enjoy in this mess .
What an unpleasant surprise .	I've sort of made it my mission in life to watch every single movie involving vampire's , ever made . I have watched a couple of horror-meets-erotica movies before and also movies staring Misty Mundae before , so I sort of knew what to expect already . This movie however turned out to be way out worse than any other genre movie I've seen so far . The movie is extremely amateur-like looking . The movie was entirely shot with 1 handy-cam and without the use of proper sound . The editing is also absolutely horrible at times , especially during the sex sequences . But the absolute worst thing about the movie is its story . The movie does not make sense and the story also really seems to serve no purpose . In the beginning the movie at least actually seemed to have a plot in it . The plot however gets quickly abandoned , after we get to see 3 sex sequences in a row , featuring the same two person and one voyeuristic person that seems to pop out of nowhere . Somewhere in the movie there is a vampire featured but it's more about a strange voodoo priest , who has to hold his mask to prevent it from falling and loves to drink tea before and after he makes strange noises and does strange dances . Again , the story serves totally no purpose and it's hilariously bad written and constructed . It absolutely makes no sense . The sequences go on for far too long , especially the strangulation sequences . I don't know , perhaps this movie was made for persons with a strangulation-fetish ? The sex sequences are quite hardcore , especially for Misty Mundae , though this is mostly the case in the deleted sequences . That also is a weird thing about this movie . The first halve of the movie is an actual ' movie ' , while the second halve consists out of deleted sequences , put after each other . One of the earliest Misty Mundae is definitely not her best , as if there even exists such a thing as her ' best ' movie .
Very annoying to watch .	This erotic-horror movie is an extremely annoying one . There is absolutely no story and the movie is impossible to follow , also due to the horrible accents of the main characters . Why on Earth did they ever casted two over 40 year old to play the main characters ? They also managed to cast about the two least attractive 40 year old which makes this movie also a disgusting one . Yesterday I posted a comment for " Dracula Vs . Frankenstein " saying that the Frankenstein creature never looked worse , well I was wrong , this Frankenstein monster is even uglier and she doesn't need no make-up effects for that ! And what is up with the endings of Jesus Franco's movies ? He always seems to put in a surprise ending in his movies but problem is that the endings never make any sense and are extremely confusing for all the wrong reasons . Every time when you think you have figured the story out , it turns out to be totally different . Nothing about the story makes any sense and the movie therefor is almost completely unwatchable . And what was with those high peeping sound during the ' resurection ' scene's ? I thought my head was going to explode and I seriously had to turn the sound off to not go completely mad . Horrible , disgusting movie !
And I thought that they made the worst science-fiction in the ' 50's .	Oh man , this movie was toe-cringing bad . Bad look , awful story . . . the list of good things is shorter than the list of bad things about this movie . Yes sure it's supposed to be a comedy and all but something tells me that this movie was supposed to be the real deal . The movie most certainly does not start of as a comedy but more as an adventurous movie with fun elements put in it . You can especially tells they were serious with this by the acting , that was in a serious and non-comical way , with the exception of a couple of over-the-top sequences obviously . It seemed to be me that at first they tried to make a real and serious adventurous science-fiction movie , perhaps even a franchise but soon began to noticed how bad it all was and simply decided to insert some more and deliberately overdone comical sequence , to make the movie seem more like a comedy and prevent it from turning into a complete disastrous mess . The movie is a weird attempt to mix adventurous swashbuckling pirate movies with serious science-fiction action . The movie was obviously inspired by the " Star Wars " movies and its success . The movie isn't even too ashamed to copy entire sequences and even the way the story progresses , sets , characters and robots show similarities . They tried to hide this by putting in some obviously spoofing sequences but I'm not falling for it . So the movie is not even original on its own , despite its original concept . You can say that this movie is a poor man's " Spaceballs " , without even really being fully a spoof . The movie is bad looking , with some video games special effects ( in some sequences even literally ) , awful looking costumes ( coat of mail and swords in outer space ? ) . The sound is at times even laughable . Seems like they shot some sequences without sound and then forgot to add all of the required sounds later again in post-production . the mixing is also really bad . They tried to conceal this by putting the sound down to a minimum at times and by tuning up the Bruce Broughton musical score . At times the movie is so busy trying to make the movie look humorous that it totally forgets to tell the story . It makes the story of the movie seems extremely messy and poorly written , with an almost completely undeveloped main plot . It also doesn't help to make the movie really ever flow . Lots of thing don't get explained and some are even dropped after a while . The movie begins as a ' pirate ' movie , who constantly are looking and steal water , since its scarcely and there is only one planet in the entire galaxy remaining with water on it ( yeah right ! ) . However this plot line gets soon abandoned , especially in the middle part of the movie , in which the movie seems to become a totally different one , with different motivations . It's just like the one weird and bad , silly sequence after the other , without really making a click . It also keeps the characters way too shallow and uninteresting to care about . Sad to see that actors like John Carradine , Anjelica Huston and a still young and unknown Ron Perlman were attached to this disastrous movie . OK I admit that I liked some of the moments , especially the ending when they go through the time-warp was original and fun but really , non of this all was enough to save the movie . I didn't even liked the movie in a campy kind of way .
Attack of the bulging eyeball aliens and their giant lizards !	Yes , this is your typical science-fiction Z-movie from the ' 50's , with all the usual and typical genre defining elements present in it . Lots of use of army stock footage , weird looking aliens , absurd special effects , a non-existing / no sense making story , giants insects and of course an alien plot to take over the world . Can the movie be more typical ? It really is a movie that is so ridiculously bad that you have to love it . The alien plots to take over the world never seize to surprise me . This time aliens with giant bulging eyeballs ( but further more they look and talk like normal humans ) try to take over the Earth . Strangely enough the aliens tell every little detail ( with also the use of an home-video from their planet and and plans , that conveniently also has some editing tricks in it such as fade-overs ! Oh , the great and advanced alien technology ! ) why they want to take over the Earth and even hint at how they can be stopped . They're obviously an advanced and smart species but yet the best they can come up with to take over the Earth is with the use of giant tarantulas , lizards , crickets and other friendly looking animals . Those animals really form the weirdest part of the movie , in which our ' hero ' runs through some underground tunnels and runs into those large looking animals , that too obviously look like ultra-enlarged footage , with some hilariously bad ' monster ' sounds put over it . The animals don't do anything at all , they're just sitting there but yet it is presented in the movie as some big dangerous moments , in which our ' hero ' makes a narrow and hazardous escape . The scene goes on for far too long , it's too silly looking , it serves no purpose and it makes the movie as a whole even sillier and bad looking . It is what they in movie terms call a big WT # moment . To be honest the movie really didn't began all that bad . Not that it showed much potential to begin with but at least the story seemed good and mysterious . However the more the movie starts to explain , the sillier it gets . And I mean really silly , as in bad silly . The movie gets totally unlikely and the plot starts to make really little sense after a while . Also of course the clumsy ending doesn't help the movie much . It also is a really poor directed one , with bad shot sequences . Of course the movie most definitely also isn't helped with its special effects . You know , it's the sort of movie for which they used small plastic miniatures for the planes and archive footage for the action sequences . Peter Graves , in a role before his " Mission : Impossible " series fame , holds up pretty well in his role , despite having to deliver some horrible cheesy and laughable dialog . He really seemed to believe in the movie and what he was doing . All of the other actors seem like they were being picked of the street . Definitely recommendable for the lover of Z-science fiction movies from the ' 50's . Everyone else can obviously just better skip it for the obvious reasons .
No pace , no good story , no good acting . A really bad movie !	This is one dreadful movie . The movie just drags and drags on without any pace or good story development . And the horrible accents and acting also didn't made it exactly pleasant to watch . Couldn't they at least have tried to make it a bit entertaining ? After all I watch this movie expecting it to be an adventure movie . There was not one thing in this movie that was entertaining . I really can't think of one reason why it is worth it that any person should ever watch this movie . Especially after seeing " The Sea Hawk " with Errol Flynn a couple of days ago , this movie is a real disappointment . How did a fine composer like Maurice Jarre ever got into this mess ? this movie really is not worthy to have this man's music . A real unpleasant watch . One to avoid at all cost .
And the Oscar for best original movie title goes to . . .	First of all , don't take this movie serious people . This way you'll enjoy it the most . It's a typical British goof-ball comedy , with mainly one big difference to it ; that this movie also stars icons Boris Karloff and Basil Rathbone , in one of their last movies . Yes of course their age really shows . Karloff was nearly 80 at the time of this production and Rathbone sounded as if he had last his denture . But of course their presence alone still adds some class to the movie and gives the movie as a whole a certain bit of extra . Besides them two the movie also features Nancy Sinatra , who hasn't appeared in a lot of movies in her lifetime . The movie features mainly very silly humor , that on top of it all also just isn't exactly very funny . It's however so clumsy and embarrassing to watch all that it also becomes sort of a cute harmless little movie , that becomes fun to watch due to this clumsy and amateur like film-making , the overall movie has . But the humor isn't the main issue of the movie . It's its story that makes this movie such a bad one to watch . Halve of the time I really don't know what is going on on screen , because it all is just so confusingly bad to follow . Who are all these characters and what do they want ? This is a perfect example of how not to make a movie . The movie gets all the more painful to watch as it heads toward its ending . The movie also features some very random musical numbers , with scary ' 60's dancing to it . One of the elements that makes this a quite odd movie to watch . An embarrassment to watch .
Seriously now . . .	This movie is " Epic Movie " , " Date Movie " and " Meet the Spartans " type of bad . It's just as lame with its humor , which means it's just totally not funny at all and instead is more annoying , in basically every way thinkable . Honestly this was one of the worst movies I've seen in my life and that says a lot . I could barely watch this movie , since it was so embarrassingly badly made . I've nothing against a stupid comedy but that doesn't mean it can just get away with bad writing , bad directing , bad acting and bad basically everything else . the National Lampoon's movies never have been known for its comical subtlety or overall brilliance but this movie is bad even for their normal standards . The movie is presented as a double feature , in which two different stories are told . Both feature the same actress as the main lead but are basically not connected in any way . The only thing that connects them , expect for the same main lead actress , is how incredibly bad they are . It's almost as if there was no script ready at the time of the shooting and the stories just never get off the ground , since they are just far from something interesting . They progress in a very childish way , as if it was made only for people with an incredibly low IQ score . How can you watch and honestly like a movie like this ? The movie tries to be funny in basically every scene , which is overkill . And on top of that , the movie obviously isn't that funny . It's comedy is oh so predictable and again incredibly lame and childish . If you let a 6 year come up with a comedy , he or she would probably come up with a movie like this . Seriously , I don't want to spend any more time now saying how bad , horrible and just almost completely unwatchable this movie is . I seriously can not understand how anyone could ever like and laugh out loud at this movie .
More voyeurism than horror in this one .	It's Italian , it's horror . . . but it's not very good . The movie is cheap looking and the story is just terrible . For an horror movie it certainly isn't original and the movie is severely lacking on multiple levels . Perhaps the biggest problem with the movie is that it doesn't have a real main characters . Who exactly was supposed the hero in this one ? And who exactly were the good and bad guys ? It makes the movie confusing and messy to watch . It also is terribly boring all , since rarely ever something interesting happens . The movie is filled with nudity and voyeurism . The movie is basically about the servants peeping on naked women and the movie doesn't focuses enough on the horror aspects of the movie . The musical score by Marcello Gigante is just plain awful and truly laughable at times . Both the editing and cinematography are also severely lacking . The movie is incredibly simple and cheap made and its horrible put together with the editing . The cinematography looks very amateur like and it seemed that they didn't used proper lighting or a focus-puller . This Italian take on the Frankenstein franchise , in which for some odd reason also Neanderthalers are involved , is a terrible one , in which basically nothing interesting ever happens .
Jesus Franco's take on the Dr . Mabuse franchise .	Jesus Franco's take on the Dr . Mabuse franchise . . . well that should sum up pretty much how this movie is like . Jesus Franco is a director who has always distinguished himself by delivering extremely bad and poor movies . He's always fascinated with putting a lot of nudity and explicit sexuality into his movies . He began early in his career by making mostly bad horror flicks in the ' 60's and ' 70's but his career has now reached a point that he's stuck to mostly soft-erotic movies . In many ways his career parallels that of Ed Wood's , also not in the least because of the comparable qualities of their movies . Who ever gave him the green light to do a Dr . Mabuse movie ? Fritz Lang is turning over in his grave . As you would expect , this movie has actually very little to do with the previous Dr . Mabuse movies . It features an extremely muddled story with all kind of oddness's over it and you just simply don't bother to try and understand what the story is all about . It's some extremely bad and disjointed storytelling within this movie . Often the scenes and different characters and plot lines just don't blend in with each other . The characters ( Really , a couple of cowboy cops ? ) and dialogs are often just horrible and simply laughable . And yes , of course the movie also features a couple of lesbian actions . A thing Jesus Franco also really seems obsessed with . The nudity and sexual content within this movie just seems terribly out of place and makes this more a ' dirty movie ' than a real serious attempt by Franco . Not that I expected this in advance though . Like a typical Franco flick , it's also a real cheap looking movie , with bad locations , laughable make-up effects ( what was that monster creature all about ? ) and shot sequences without the use of any additional lighting , or anything of that sort . On top of that , Jesus Franco also felt to urge to compose the music for this movie . What an horrible , horrible choice that was . Seriously only watchable for the fans of Franco-trash .
Ed Wood's last attempt at ' serieus ' movie making .	Dialog in Ed Wood movies are often among the worst you'll ever hear in any movie . It's tone cringing and hilariously bad at times . Especially also hilarious how Ed Wood tried to put in humor into this movie . Wood perhaps wasn't the worst director of all time but he might very well be the worst writer of all time . This movie its story is also really confusing to follow , since it just doesn't make much sense . It's a movie with many sub-plots , rather than one clear main plot and the movie focuses too much on too many different characters , rather than it has one clear and likable main character . The movie misses a Bela Lugosi , Tor Johnson or Vampira . But I have to hand Ed Wood one thing . Some of his movies handle for its time some sensitive and daring themes . He previously for instance did this before with his movie " Glenn or Glenda " , which was about transvestites and more or less also with his movie " Plan 9 From Outer Space " which had some social criticism in it . " The Sinister Urge " concentrates on the world of pornography . Of course not a subject that would often be handled ' seriously ' in ' 60's movies . Ironicaly enough Wood himself would land into the world of soft-core porn movie making after this film as a director , writer and ( unfortunatly also ) actor . It's especially since this movie tries to show how ' evil ' pornography is . It even turns people into serial killers . Especially the dialog explaining how evil it all is , is extremely moralistic and completely totally horrible . I actually also would suspect that the portrayal of the porn industry is far from the truth and how it was at the time . So it's also really doubtful that Ed Wood actually did some research for his movie . Continuety is a big problem and the editing often doesn't make a whole lot of sense . Character positions and even car models change suddenly in between different cuts . It's also quite hilarious that the movie at times recycles some of its sequence and of course Wood also uses some archive footage again , this time even from some of his previous movies , of which some got never completed . This movie might very well feature the worst editing out of all Ed Wood movie's . Ed Wood was basically also really an horrible actors director . The acting is extremely wooden and the actors obviously at times don't know how to act or move , probably because they themselves had a hard time understanding the script or what Wood wanted from them . Of course the budget was also obviously low again for Mr . Wood . This means that the movie is mostly being shot at location and inside small studios , with cardboard sets and hardly any dressing to it , expect for a desk , a phone and a map of the world . Ed Wood always had a hard time finding financiers for his movies . This movie was perhaps the last straw for him and the reason why he for a while quite film-making after this in , in order to pursuit a writing career , before venturing himself into the world of soft-core porn movie-making . Edward D . Wood Jr's last ' serious ' film-making attempt is consistent with the movies he did prior to this movie . So Mr . Wood ends in style with " The Sinister Urge " .
Whoohoo , Nazi-zombies in the African desert !	Oh man , this movie came very close of actually boring me to death ! I couldn't even manage this finish watching this movie in one time . My hopes were high . The premise sounded so silly and bad that the movie was bound to be entertainingly bad and fun to watch , typical Jesus Franco stuff . I mean Nazi-zombies ? How could this not be entertaining ? It however really isn't . Nothing happens in this movie which makes it a total bore to watch . On top of that , its a very poorly made movie . OK perhaps I should have known better . Jesus Franco , in 53 years of film-making experience , has never managed to make a well directed movie . Always technical flawed , never a good story-flow and overall worse than poor performances from the actors . Truly the worse director of all time , who still refuses to give up directing movies . At least Ed Wood still showed some passion and love for movies in his directing . Keep trying Mr . Franco , I'm sure one day you'll direct your " Citizen Kane " . Really has he never heard of a focus-puller . All of the zoom-ins are so incredibly blurred and bad looking . All of the dialog and sound were also obviously added later into the movie . The dialog sounded as if it was recorded in a garage and I wouldn't at all be surprised if it turned out it was . But no , the technical aspects aren't the worst thing about the movie . I mean , it's not the reason why it's such an incredibly boring movie to watch . They did absolutely nothing with the movie it's premise , that in its core still was decently entertaining enough . The zombies get nothing interesting to do in the movie , until the ending , that however is so poorly done that it becomes rather ridicules and absolutely horrendous to watch . I have yet to watch a Franco movie with an ending that is good and works out . If I had to say something positive about this movie , it would be the make-up effects for the zombies , that seemed pretty well done . Too bad about everything else really . . .
If you thought that the Rutger Hauer version was bad . . .	. . . Wait until you see this movie . At least the Rutger Hauer version of this movie called " Bleeders " , from 1997 , was still at parts entertaining and watchable . This is a really poorly made movie . You just know that everyone involved with this movie is never going to make it in the world of movies . This includes both main cast and crew . It features some extremely bad dubbing and sound effects . Especially listen in the beginning of the movie when the woman hits the ' monster ' with a gun . It sounds like a cartoon ! This unfortunately is not the only example . Also the editing is really off and the movie uses too often silly slow-motion sequences , that are just nothing more than laughable . This obviously was a cheap movie to make . The monsters are not too bad looking and it deserved to be in a better movie . The story is extremely bad and simple written , as if they put no real effort into it . It's very silly and just never seems to get of the ground . The movie also never becomes tense or scary to watch , although its fairly good with its gore . Also the actors didn't made the movie any better . It's not just their fault , since their characters are also extremely flat and boring in the story . Still it has Jefffrey Combs and Vincent Schiavelli in it , so there are some redeeming qualities . I see no point into why anyone should ever watch this movie .
Peter Cushing versus a giant moth ! Yeah right . . .	Pulp , pulp absolute pulp . The story is just as silly as it sounds . The also didn't bother to explain - or make sense to anything . For a monster movie it also doesn't have enough ' monster ' in it and the story is not tense or mysterious mainly because it's such a complete mess . The story is incredible B-movie like . A scientist has created a creature that can transform back and forth between a giant moth ( what the . . . ? ! ? ) and a young woman . To stay alive , the moth has to feed itself with fresh blood of innocent victims . This is where Peter Cushing comes in . He plays an inspector who is set to investigate this strange and mysterious murders . An awful few is ever happening in this movie . From start till the finish the movie basically isn't heading anywhere and the movie is filled with dull moments that are distracting from the main plot line of the movie . Yes , it really is a movie about nothing . The giant moth creature makes the whole even more ridicules . The moth itself is not back looking but the transformation scene's are laughable bad . Even the transformation sequences in " The Wolf Man " from 1941 were more convincing . The moth also gets very little interesting to do in the movie and is only featured in about 3 very short sequences I believe . The entire movie is also horribly edited together . At times it feels like entire sequences were cut out , or not even filmed . The movie jumps from one sequence to another . At least Peter Cushing seemed to be enjoying himself during filming . Just look at his face during his sequences with Russell Napier and Vanessa Howard . Also Glynn Edwards was somewhat good and enjoyable in his role . Robert Flemyng and Vanessa Howard were however dreadful most of the time . Also look out for Kenneth Colley ( Captain / Admiral Piett from " Star Wars : Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back " and " Star Wars : Episode VI - Return of the Jedi " . ) and a very young David Griffin ( Emmet from " Keeping Up Appearances " . ) in quite a big role . The ending of the movie is also a huge letdown . It's very simple and completely unsatisfying . Perphaps almost even laughable . Guess it's still only a bit good and scary when you are afraid of moths .
One of the most ridiculously pointless movies I have ever seen .	This movie its story feels like a very lame excuse to bring some material arts fighting sequences to the big screen . You know how Star Wars fan films are always used as a lame excuse to do a lightsaber fight , well same goes for this movie , only it aren't lightsaber fights in this movie but its material arts instead . The movie really feels like a amateur movie at times . All of the fight sequences were nicely choreographed , no doubt about that and its obvious that director Jamel Aattache has a passion for material arts movies but all of the fights in the movie felt simply pointless and they really came out of nowhere at times . It's good to watch as a material arts demonstration all but as a movie this movie is simply terrible . Because of this all the story never really flows well which makes the movie almost impossible to watch at times . The story is extremely weak and simple and the romantic elements of the movie between Kim Ho Kim and Chantal Janzen simply don't work , because there is no chemistry between those two and their love seems very unlikely to happen . The acting was also completely horrible . Kim Ho Kim doesn't have enough charisma as an actor for a role like this one . Chantal Janzen was simply terrible in her role and the person who decided to give Ron Smoorenburg so many lines should had also been fired . Ron Smoorenburg is a great material arts fighter but he simply isn't much good as an actor . It's also due to director Jamel Aattache that some of the acting was really lame at times , he simply isn't a very good actors-director . The cinematography by Peter-Jan van der Burgh was good and gave the movie a very professional look at times . the city Rotterdam is a perfect background for movies , this one included . They really should make some more movies and series in this city . It's a great charismatic and atmospheric background for movies and series , not a great place to live in though . Also the musical score by Yorick Goldewijk was very good and suited the movie perfectly . But unfortunately some great cinematography and the good musical score aren't enough to conceal the movie its almost none-excising lame story . It makes " Fighting Fish " an absolutely horrible and pointless movie to watch . Probably the only ones who can still find some pleasure in this movie are persons who love material arts . It has some good material arts moments in it but as a movie this one is a complete failure that also suffers from a terrible amateur look at times .
Very annoying and unfunny movie .	This movie was really painful to watch . It was an extremely busy and annoying movie without anything funny or original ever happening . The humor was just completely wrong and totally unfunny . The story is just basically about nothing and only serves as an opportunity for Mike Myers to show his silly antics on the screen . He is however given awful material to work with and an awful imagine-less director to direct him . The movie is annoyingly fast paced at times and it relies to heavily on just Mike Myers . Alec Baldwin does play an enjoyable and good ' villain ' and they could had really used him better in this movie . There are really some missed opportunities here . . . OK I have to admit that there are some good and funny moments but really not enough to save this movie from being a disaster . I did liked the visual style in this weird typical fabricated world with all those weird looking sets and colors . It really reminded me of the Tim Burton movie " Edward Scissorhands " . No wonder it did , director Bo Welch worked on " Edward Scissorhands " as the production designer . Unfortunately the visual style is underused and doesn't play a significant enough role in the movie . While watching this movie I really kept on wishing that Tim Burton would had directed this movie with perhaps starring Johnny Depp , how perfect would that had been ? I don't see how anyone could like this movie and I most certainly can not recommend this movie to anyone , especially not to children . If this was a movie made for children than it was done completely wrong . There is nothing to enjoy or find imaginative in this annoying , loud , too fast paced mess of a movie , that has totally no story and a wobbly message in it .
An 15 minute version of Ben-Hur ? Yeah right !	With a book consisting out of 558 and other movie versions that last well over two hours , the creators of this movie thought that they could put the entire story of Ben-Hur into a 15 minute silent short . No big surprise here that the end result is very muddled and story , directing and acting is pretty much non-existent in this movie . This movie version is known because it was the very first movie based on the 1880 Lew Wallace novel but its better known for being made without permission of the author's estate . This wasn't an uncommon thing by the way for its time and studios were constantly making movies based on novels without the proper permission of its copyright holders . As result of it , the author's estate successfully suit the studios for copyright infringement . Needless to say that this movie is a waste of one fine story . The one moment Ben-Hur is enslaved , 10 seconds later he's a free man again and 20 seconds later he's right in the middle of the chariot race . Of course the story doesn't ever flow and it you aren't really familiar with the Ben-Hur story , you'll have a hard time understanding what is going on in this movie . The movie mainly consists out of people raising their hands and walking around . The camera at all times remain at one position ( yes even during the chariot race ) , making this movie looking very staged . It doesn't help much that the movie uses very limited sets and extra cast members . Basically its a group of , lets say , 20 people that are constantly on screen . Nevertheless the movie credits two actors for playing the two lead roles of Ben-Hur and Messala . This doesn't however mean that there is being acted in this movie though . A bit of a shame maybe , since the actor portraying Messala is William S . Hart , who was a real Shakespearean actor and later became one of the earliest and best known western actors in the late ' 10's and early ' 20's . He actually was a real life friend of legendary Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson and was one of the pallbearers at Wyatt Earp's funeral , along with other and bigger early western movie star in 1929 . Well , let me say that this little piece of history is actually far more interesting than actually this movie . Hardly watchable for a movie , not even for historical sake .
What is this ?	Still not sure what it exactly was that I just watched here . This is a strange mix of documentary and a scripted plot , featuring both actors and real prostitutes . Exactly what does the movie try to achieve ? What is its message ? Does it just try to give us a view into the world of porn and prostitution ? If so , than what is the point of it , since this movie shows and tells very little new or interesting . It's filled with interviews that just becomes too much of the same after a while . Even though the movie is only 87 minutes short , it feels much longer . The movie feels like a rather weird and failed experiment to mixes documentary with a scripted story and characters . The movie is made in documentary style mostly but the style , scripted situations and actors makes the whole movie feel rather artificial . A weird and failed fusion of fact and fiction . Especially the style was a problem to me . Fast , pointless cuts but the weirdest thing to watch , was that the backgrounds , during the interviews , were all obviously added later to the movie . The movie tries to be style full and beautiful but it just isn't . It instead is fake looking and for most part the style seems pointless and overdone . Also a big problem is , that the movie just isn't interesting to watch . The movie doesn't say or show anything new or refreshing and even those who are interested in the subject will find very little to enjoy in this movie . It makes the movie very tiresome and boring to watch , already after the a couple of minutes . The ' plotline ' featuring Denise Richards and Daryl Hannah is like the entire movie ; pointless and boring . Amazing to see that two professional actors lend their talents for such a production . Joaquim de Almeida also shows up in the movie . I'll bet they all thought they were making something refreshing and revolutionary here . . . Avoid . That's the best and most sensible thing I can say about this movie .
Most scene's are dragging on for too long and in general , the movie is about nothing really .	This really is a movie with zero story . After you've watched it you're wondering by yourself ; now what was that all about ? The movie is not tense , not emotional and for a comedy it is not funny enough . Basically it is a two hour movie about nothing . The cast is all wrong . Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez are simply not believable as ' tough ' gangsters . And Jennifer Lopez seriously is the most unbelievable movie lesbian in history . And I don't mean unbelievable like in a compliment . I'm not one of those ' Bennifer ' haters but as a fair neutral viewer of this movie I have to simply admit that they were awful , as was the movie in general . Cameo's from Christopher Walken and Al Pacino were the highlights of the movie . Seriously , Al Pacino's role is what make's this movie still a bit watchable . Also Lenny Venito was somewhat enjoyable in his villain role . The pace is also totally wrong . Most of the scene's are taking too long and are dragging on . The movie should at least had been halve an hour shorter . Also maybe if the movie had completely been made in comedy style it would had perhaps been a better or more enjoyable movie to watch . What was director / writer Martin Brest thinking ? That he was making a new " True Romance " ? Looking at the movie , I think he thought and tried to make a " True Romance " like movie but the movie misses all the elements that a movie needs to be a good one . Still the movie was mildly entertaining at times . I have to admit that I laughed at some of the jokes and moments so I was not totally bored while watching . Not a complete train-wreck but also not exactly recommendable either .
Waste of a great story .	I shall not pretend as if I have seen the 1928 version of this movie ( not yet anyway but I'm certainly planning to ) with Conrad Veidt in the main lead , or the original from 1921 , of which this movie is a remake but it's pretty safe to assume that those movies are better than this version . The movie is absolutely horribly made . The concept and setting are quite good and promising but it is all wasted with the weak storytelling of it all . The story itself , based on the book by Victor Hugo , is quite fascination , almost Shakesperean like . It has some great elements in it but it is all wasted in this movie . All of the potential is ruined but the weak acting , dreadful camera-work ( seriously , don't they know what a focus-puller is ? ) and horrible editing . The story is also told messy and at times you don't even know who exactly are supposed to be the good guys and the bad guys of the movie . It makes the movie very unpleasant and uneasy to watch at times . There are still some good moments in the movie , especially in the middle but overall the movie is a dragging , messy , confusing one that isn't really worth watching . The movie also becomes unnecessary ridicules at times , especially toward the ending of the movie . It truly becomes laughable bad at times and loses all of it's credibility because of those many moments , that are present in the movie . Great story , very bad storytelling and execution of it all .
An huge failure .	What was the cast thinking when the read the script ? It puzzles me how many big names ( Dennis Quaid , Sharon Stone , Stephen Dorff , Juliette Lewis , Kristen Stewart , Christopher Plummer ) were in this movie . It makes me wonder if the even read the script ! The story is very standard material , no it's even worse than that . . . The movie starts of really slow and bad , in the first hour there are basically just some characters talking and walking on screen without that there is really something interesting happening . The story is done dozens of time , especially in the last couple of years . It is standard thriller material stuff . There is a family moving into an house , the previous house owner than shows up and of course there is a huge secret he is carrying with him , which also involves the house . Oh the originality is killing me ! It's a very standard thriller formula . What follows are some standard thriller moments , including a standard and predictable ending . This movie also contains one of the worst executed scene's I've seen in years . " The snake's in the house " scene . First of all the family goes totally over the top crazy , I mean they act like they just have seen Oprah Winfrey walking naked through their house ! It's supposed to be a scary and hectic moment but it is almost comedy like because of the editing , camera positions but also thanks to the truly horrible musical score by Mike Figgis ( also the director ) himself . The score is so incredibly simple that it literally could have been composed by an 8 year old . Are there some positive things to say about this movie ? Not many . . . It is of course always great to see some good actors in a movie and this movie surely has some good actors . It's too bad that Stephen Dorff plays such a standard psychopath villain , he has played so many good and better villain roles before . It was weird to see Juliette Lewis , she was looking old and . . . fat ! She always used to be such a skinny and baby face looking girl , was it make-up or has her look really changed that much ? I hereby officially declare this movie as a waste of time .
Well , at least it's better than part III .	This is quite a bad movie but oh well , this movie is at least not as lame as the third Ghoulies movie . Yes , this is a bad movie in terms of its writing , directing , acting and basically everything in between . It has such a weak , simple and ridicules story , that besides has little to do with the previous Ghoulies movie entries . It tries to connect the movie with the first movie " Ghoulies " , from 1985 but then on the other hand , if they really wanted to connect this movie with its predecessors , then were are the Ghoulies in this movie ? Instead now we are having some small people , played by Tony Cox and Arturo Gil , dressed up as demons . Not that the Ghoulies from the previous movies were any classic characters but they were nevertheless the heart and soul of the movie and also provided the movies with a certain amount of fun . It's like having a Gremlins movie without the Gremlins . The movie is not really interesting to watch because it lacks any tension , good humor , intriguing characters and basically everything else you can think off because it got put together by persons who obviously aren't the most talented ones within their business . Just like at director's Jim Wynorski resume , with movies such as " The Witches of Breastwick " and its sequel , " Alabama Jones and the Busty Crusade " , " House on Hooter Hill " , " Scream Queen Hot Tub Party " , " The Bare Wench Project " and the sequels " The Bare Wench Project 2 : Scared Topless " and " The Bare Wench Project 3 : Nymphs of Mystery Mountain " and " The Da Vinci Coed " on it . Yeah the movie is quite silly and campy but this is not really enough to boost this movie and gives it some more entertainment value . You know , it's the kind of cheap looking movie with some lame special effects , costumes , make-up and actors nobody has heard of ever since . Still it isn't the worst movie out of the series because of the reason that " Ghoulies III : Ghoulies Go to College " is by far a more worse movie , since that one had some horrible lame attempts at humor . This movie at least still does some attempts to be serious and professional one , even though the end result is far from perfect . Bad movie making and perhaps only watchable for those who have seen the previous Ghoulies entries .
I like movie violence , I like gore , I like Japan but yet I couldn't like watching this movie .	To be honest I expected to really love this movie , since it seemed to feature all of the ingredients needed to please me ; Gore , violence and this all done in a typical Japanese manga style . However " Koroshiya 1 " is a mess of a movie and more than halve of the time I really didn't knew what I was watching . It's confusing , odd and just not entertaining enough in all , to watch . Takashi Miike is a real cult-director but I guess his work is just not my kind of thing . I doubt if I'm even willing to watching more movies by him now . The movie is good looking and yes also well directed , as weird as it might sound for a movie that I didn't liked watching at all . However some good story telling is a whole different thing and Miike doesn't seem to really handle this directing discipline well . The movie has a true unique style of its own and it mixes bold action with humor . It's filled with some real gruesome sequences and the movie literally features gallons of blood ( as well as sperm ) . It will please the gore fans as well as the fans of Japanese manga . The movie is also based on a comic by Japanese artist Hideo Yamamoto . For me the movie was just almost completely unwatchable for the mess that it was . However I know that there are people who can appreciate this movie and it's style , so simply go judge for yourself whether you like it or not . It's really a matter of taste . If the movie still feels ' right ' for you after 10 minutes in , keep watching since it will definitely be your thing . Or else just switch it off , like basically I should had done as well . . .
An highly unbelievable and unlikely drama .	Yes , I know this movie is based on the real life of Patch Adams but all the events in the movie feel over-the-top and highly unlikely that they really occurred . Its the reason why the dramatic scene's in the movie simply didn't worked for me . First of all , I couldn't even always sympathize for the main character Patch Adams played by Robin Williams ( sometimes he's a bit over-the-top in some dramatic scene's but overall he gives a very solid performance . ) . I mean seriously , Patch Adams really pushes it at times and simply goes too far in his methods . I even found myself on the side of Dean Walcott ( a very typical Bob Gunton stereotype role ala " The Shawshank Redemption " and " Glory " . ) , at times . It is not a good sign for a drama when you couldn't even always sympathize for the main character . This alone is already a reason for why this drama is a failure . All of the events in the movie felt highly unlikely and unrealistic . No way you can convince me that some dying 70 year old could be entertained by a bunch of balloons . Yes , there really were some ' dramatic ' scene's in the movie that simply made me cringe . Its the kind of drama that is really embarrassing to look at . The drama in the movie is very childish and way too cliché . There even is room for a misplaced , unneeded and highly unbelievable love-story . The music by Marc Shaiman is also a reason why the drama in the movie doesn't work . I mean I'm sure that the score is great to listen to outside of the movie ( I mean after all , it was even nominated for an Oscar . ) but in the movie itself it simply doesn't work . It's such a stereotypical and over-the-top drama score ! Basically it's the same tune over and over again in every of the ' dramatic ' scene's . It was really distracting for me at times . It's funny but in the few scene's that he's in Philip Seymour Hoffman truly absolutely the show . How long before this guy will win his Oscar ? Yes every scene that he was in was a highlight for me . This movie is really a waste of a great cast . Its not the cast their fault that the drama doesn't work , I think its director's Tom Shadyac , who manages to deliver the drama in an highly unlikely and unbelievable manner . He should stick to making comedies , me thinks ! A big failure as a movie and drama in many ways . . .
Not the worst but still an horrible Z-movie .	Edward D . Wood Jr . or better known as just Ed Wood really was the worst screenwriter of all time . Just like all of his movie , this one doesn't make sense and is filled with plot holes and visual mistakes , which makes this movie a laughable but fun one . . . So Ed Wood was the worst writer and perhaps director of movie history but does that mean that his movie are also the worst of all time ? I think not , even though his movies are far from masterpieces he still knows to put some passion and love for cinema into it . Unfortunately it's a kind of strange love and passion that perhaps only Ed Wood himself understood . Looking at his movies you realize that the movies were made by a person who was living in his own world with his own ideals and standards , in his mind he thought what he did was great but the general public did not agree with that and all of his movies became an huge failure . Does that make him a bad filmmaker ? More a misunderstood one , misunderstood by the whole world . I think this is also one of the reasons for Wood's cult status which he has gotten after his unfortunate early death , people began to see and understand the passion he made his movies with , when they rediscovered his movies and watched them in a new light . But I shall not try to romanticize it , facts are that Wood's movies are unique but still awful ones and it are these two things combined that makes his movies laughable but yet fun to watch . In a strange way I admire Ed Wood's life and career . . . " Plan 9 From Outer Space " is no different from Wood's other movies , except for one thing ; this one his most known one . But why is it his best known one ? Probably because it is his biggest movie and being officially known by the world as worst director of all time , this movie automatically became regarded as the worst of all time . I don't think worst is the best way to describe this movie , strange would be perhaps better . The story is weird and doesn't make a lot of sense . It mixes science fiction with strange zombie kind of horror . An horrible combination that simply doesn't work . Main problem I had with this movie was that I didn't understood who the main character was . The movie follows way too many characters without ever making clear who the ' hero ' was . I think that originally Bela Lugosi was set to portray the biggest role in the movie but after his death the story had to be rewritten , with as a result an even bigger mess . Lugosi still is in this movie , Wood uses some self made archive footage of his good friend while he is running around in his Dracula cape . The result is a strange mix of archive Lugosi footage and sequences with a body double that looks nothing like Lugosi at all . The movie also uses other archive footage of the American army firing their cannons , it really doesn't blend in with the movie and looks laughable . The acting as always is horrible . I really laughed at Tor Johnson with his horrible accent who had been given way too many lines . Other strange roles are portrayed by Vampira , Criswell , John " Bunny " Breckinridge ( who couldn't seem to keep his eyes of Dudley Manlove's costume ) and other Ed Wood regulars Paul Marco , Duke Moore , Lyle Talbot and Conrad Brooks . Still I think that the movie has some nice moments . At times it knows to build up some good tension and I think that the underlying message itself also isn't that bad or unimportant . It's just that it's brought in the wrong way just like in Wood's other movie " Glen or Glenda " was the case .
Well , in all honesty it was better than any other Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer directed movie I've seen so far .	Yes , amazingly enough I have to conclude that this was the best Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer directed movie I've seen in my entire life . It doesn't mean that this movie is exactly brilliant though . It's incredibly lame , features embarrassingly bad and unfunny moments and is basically a movie purely made to cash in . Simple fact is that as long as these movies are making money , more like them will likely get made and released . And this movies are making big money . Every time a Friedberg / Selzer parody gets released I see it somewhere in the top of the box office lists . I really don't understand this . Don't people by now know who Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer are and what type of movies they make ? I'm never telling people to boycott movies or film-making but now I'm simply begging everyone to stop and pay money to see these type of movies , it's the only way we can stop them from being produced . Power to the people ! Yes , I know I'm also still watching these movies , so I probably look guilty as well but at least I'm not paying any money for it to do so . The movie is titled " Meet the Spartans " , so yes it indeed is mostly a spoof of the movie " 300 " and it follows basically the same plot line and type of characters but as you could expect from a Friedberg / Selzer the movie is spoofing tons of other recent successful movies as well , as well as some famous movie and TV celebrities . Like always the movie is bombarding us with this . Joke after joke is being put in the movie , as if they were thinking lets put in as many comical moments as possible and some of them are just bound to hit . I must admit , some jokes do hit and is the reason why I regard this movie as the best one from Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer but unfortunately it's only about 5 % of the jokes and comical moments that do hit and made me laugh . 95 % of the rest of the movie is just an utter waste of time and insulting to anyone's intelligence . No , there is nothing wrong with some silly comedy from time to time but not when it is as embarrassingly bad as is the case with " Meet The Spartans " and every other Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer movie for that matter . But I always have to give this movie credit for one thing ; it's always good and professionally looking . There is still obviously some money and effort put into this movie and it has a good visual look over it . What it also does well is re-playing some of the well known sequences from " 300 " . I'll guess you'll probably hate this movie less if you've seen " 300 " and most of the other movies that are being spoofed within this movie . Also most of the actors do a decent job impersonating the actors from " 300 " . Of course most characters are just totally bad and lame though but I don't think you can blame the actors for this . I think it was also a good choice to give Carmen Electra a much bigger role this time because lets face it , her appearances basically always had been part of the highlights of any other Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer movie . Also quite fun that Kevin Sorbo has a big part in the movie . He is of course best known for playing Hercules in the hit-series and TV movies . So he's perfectly in place in this movie , despite the fact that he already was 50 at the time of this movie . For what it's worth ; it's better than any other Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer movie I've seen before in my life . It doesn't mean this movie is watchable or recommendable though . Jason Friedberg & Aaron Seltzer made lame and bad comedy spoofs in the past and they will also just never become good at it . Please simply boycott their next movies when it will hit the cinema and you'll help to prevent these types of movies from being made and you'll stop unfunny and untalented people such as Friedberg and Seltzer from ever making a movie again . Thank you very much !
Shoot this movie into orbit please !	The movie is a remake of the Russian science-fiction movie " Planeta Bur " . This movie even simply re-edits scenes from " Planeta Bur " into this movie , obviously re-synchronized , with American voices and added a couple of new scenes with Faith Domergue ( once considered Howard Hughes ' greatest discovery ! ) and Basil Rathbone . Real problem with this movie is that there is absolutely nothing happening in the movie . Of course the story itself is also totally ridicules , about a couple of scientist landing on Venus , where they of course soon start to face dangerous lizard / dinosaurs like looking aliens and dangerous plants . For most of the time the movie really is about nothing and you just don't know what it is that you're watching . The movie is supposed to be mysterious and exciting but it just never gets so . Luckily the movie is not that long ! The effects are about as bad looking as they can get for a ' 60's genre movie , with a silly looking robot with a silly sounding voice , who can walk through lava but not water , mind you ! The sets are fairly good looking , although it of course by todays standards all look terribly outdated . Especially the interior of the spaceships of course look totally ridicules now . Some of the dialog is amazingly bad , that is unintentionally funny at times , with also some stupid scientist , that needs to explain the simplest things to each other . You're IQ will most likely drop a couple of points while watching this movie . Poor Basil Rathbone ! That he had to end his career in movies such as this one . . . Yes , he of course still gives the movie some class and he clearly is the most talented actor of the whole bunch but it of course is all not enough to uplifts the movie . No way I'll ever watch this again !
A terrible mess .	Dear oh dear . . . I liked the first 2 Blade movies very much and thought they were perfect horror / action entertainment , so I kind of expected the same thing from " Blade : Trinity " . The movie however turned out to be a terrible mess with an incredibly awfully told story and sidekicks that became more interesting and better than Blade himself . You know something is terribly wrong when you're care way more and are more interested in the sidekicks than in the main title character . Man to blame is director David S . Goyer . This guy is no director , let him stick to produce and writing movies . He tells the movie its story in such an incredibly messy and uninteresting way that I kept losing track , not because the story was that complicated but because it was told in such a completely messy way . The movie felt terribly incoherent like none of the scene's were really connected with each other . Also the fight scene's that were perhaps the best elements of the previous two Blade movies were disappointing in this third Blade entry . They were filmed with little flair and the terrible editing made it impossible to tell at times what was exactly happening on the screen . Yes , this movie features the worst editing I have seen in a while but that is what happens when you have three editors on the job . The new characters Hannibal King and Abigail Whistler ( really , did she had to be Whistler's daughter ? That served absolutely no purpose and was nothing more than just a lame , pointless story addition . ) are cool and interesting . At least more interesting than Blade ! They add a lot of humor and style to the movie and they are about the two only successful things about this movie . OK The cinematography by Gabriel Beristain might be a third successful thing about the movie but it ends right after there really . The villains are also a disappointing element of the movie . I mean über-vampire Dracula is in this , you would expect something more from a character like that but he has got very little to do and its unclear what exactly his motivations are and what he is trying to achieve . I feel that " Blade : Trinity " still could had been a good movie , with a different , better and more experienced director at the helm . Couldn't they just had waited until director Guillermo Del Toro became available again ? This movie makes a terrible messy impression and feels like a lame excuse to quickly cash in some more money after the more successful and better previous two Blade movies . I didn't expected this to be so but this was the worst movie I have seen , in the last couple of months .
This movie makes some odd choices .	Basically this movie doesn't have one good idea of its own and that's why it ' borrows ' much from other movies but it doesn't do this very good or effectively . Main problem with this movie is that it picks a strange approach with its story . What could and should had been a cyborg action flick is now an adventure movie through the jungle , without ever becoming a good , tense or exciting one to watch . The movie is basically constantly more of the same , when new characters emerge , who for some reason want to see our main heroes dead . The story picks just such an interesting and uninspired approach . It's main premise still lets the movie sound good but the actual end result is simply a failure . It just isn't the best going movie . The movie makes some strange twists and turns in an attempt to give the movie an adventurous and perhaps even an epic kind of feeling over it . Needless to say they failed miserably . The movie has some silly futuristic gadgets and futuristic images in it , like you could only expect from a silly ' 80s flick . Of course all of its special effects aren't quite top-notch looking yet but I have to admit that for 1986 standards it simply is not too bad . I think this movie its intentions were quite serious but however the end result of course is nothing but a typical ' 80's B-movie and not a very good one either . It's one with a bad cast and crew involved . The music is dreadful and doesn't even sound like it got written for this movie at all . All of the other production values are all also really lacking . Same can be said for the script , that also doesn't really feature the best dialog imaginable . So even though they aren't being helped with a good script or dialog , also the actors themselves are bad and lacking in their skills . Guess they just went along with the cheapest actors available at the moment . Perhaps the movie would had still been better to watch with some more action in it . Instead now all we are having are same lame small attempts at action and also lacks a nice spectacular and memorable finale . The movie lacks 2 or 3 real big action sequences , that could had really spiced up things a little . This movie unfortunately makes a lot of wrong choices .
What was that ? !	What exactly did I just watched here ? To be honest , the movie started of promising . It seemed to have some nice actors and character and above all the movie made SENSE . However the movie started to go down hill rapidly and I mean really down hill ! This movie is real wasted potential . The premise is good and interesting and good enough to raise some provoking issues . The actors are also good and so is the visual look of the whole movie ( with the exception of its early special effects ) , with its Stan Winston make-up effects , settings and cinematography . Yet somehow they messed everything up and all of its potential is wasted in this messy , confusing , weird cinematic piece of garbage . It sounds ironic but from the moment when Marlon Brando's character appears in the movie , the movie becomes all quirky , weird and extremely messy . The movie starts to become very unbelievable and toward the end also very far from understandable . Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer are of course great actors but in this movie also unintentional funny and not credible as persons who like to play God . The act like a bunch of idiots in this movie and they do some weird things , Marlon Brando especially , who also looks totally ridicules with weird make-up and odd clothes . In one sequence he even wears an ice bucket on his head ! Ice bucket helmet . . . I rest my case . I think that says enough about how this movie is like . The ice bucket sequences is iconic for the rest of the movie . He is also accompanied by a small dwarf like creature , who wears the same clothes and sits by his right side . It obviously formed the basis and inspiration for the character of Mini-Me in the Austin Power movies . It makes these sequences even more unintentional hilarious to watch . But yet it are still the well known actors who give the movie still some ' watchability level ' . David Thewlis was perhaps not the right choice for the main character , he isn't charismatic enough for that but nevertheless he's a great actor of course . Marlon Brando doesn't plays such a prominent role as you would expect . He actually appears quite ( too ) late into the story . Val Kilmer perhaps delivers the best performance of the movie , until the moment when his character goes crazy . The movie further more features well known actors such as Ron Perlman , Temuera Morrison and William Hootkins in unrecognizable roles . I wish that the movie made more sense . It would at least had made the movie more entertaining to watch . It instead now offers very little entertainment , even to the most objective and open viewers . The way the story is told makes it far from interesting , compelling or thought provoking . If I had to tell what the story is about , I would say ; about a bunch of weird like half human-animals who want to break free from their master and ' God ' , played by Marlon Brando . Everything else gets muddled into the messy story . It makes the movie look like a ridicules potential-less Z-movie from the ' 50's . Really not worth seeing . I only have one more thing to say , that should sum it all up ; Ice bucket !
This movie really doesn't make sense .	It's not the worst movie I've ever seen but it sure is a strange one . . . What on Earth was Ed Wood thinking when he wrote this script ? It really is unbelievable how a person can write a script like this , nothing in it really makes sense and is just plain weird . I've also read the script ( before watching this movie actually ) and reading it makes even less sense . Yes , Ed Wood really is the worst writer of movie history . There are some very weird scene's that seems to have nothing to do with the movie such as all of the Bela Lugosi scene's . What or who was his character even supposed to be ? Even worse are the just plain weird dialogs he has to speak with his trademark horrible accent . I'm talking about line's such as : Beware ! Beware of the big green dragon that sits on your doorstep . He eats little boys . . . Puppy dog tails , and BIG FAT SNAILS . . . Beware . . . Take care . . . Beware ! Which is repeated countless times throughout the movie , in all kinds of variations . Or what to think of the line : Pull the string ! Pull the string ! while a pack of wild bison's run through the screen . . . talking about weird ! At one point in the movie there are some erotic tinted scene's that absolutely don't make any sense to me . No wonder Wood in his final years ended up making hardcore porn movies such as " Necromenia " . Dolores Fuller really is an horrible actress . Perhaps the worst I've ever seen in a movie . She delivers her lines like an 9 year old would and I think by saying this I'm offending some 9 year old now . . . Still you have to give some credit to this movie . As a documentary about transvestism it really isn't a that bad movie , especially not for its time . If the movie had been completely been made in documentary style it would even perhaps have been a classic . You have to give some credit for what Ed Wood tries to achieve with this movie , which is also based loosely on his own life as transvestite . You can tell by watching this movie that it had been made with lot's of ambition . Like all Ed Wood movies , it's so bad that it actually becomes good .
An huge disappointment .	I expected great things from this movie after seeing the trailer but I ended up extremely disappointed by the end result . The major problem is that the movie lacks a story . The story just seems like a lame excuse for a bunch of guys to dress up like WW II soldiers and fight each other . Also the few story elements that are present are extremely flawed , unlikely and unbelievable . Still there is some nice character development for a 15 minute short although not all characters are likeable for the viewer . The costumes ( with the exception of the soldier with the white pants , who I call Pvt . Pants now ) are nice and so are the settings . The acting is fairly good and the dialogues are acceptable and the movie doesn't have that much of an amateur look . The effects however are pretty lame . The talent and the passion for movie making is there , however the execution of it all is simply not good . Better luck next time and try to add some more story the next time please .
Oh my !	Well , you have bad horror movies and you have BAD horror movies . And this one is BAD alright ! You also have bad horror movies that actually becomes good and enjoyable to watch because they are so bad but no , this movie unfortunately is not one of those . It's such a silly movie , in which also not an awful lot is ever happening . The movie is like one big boring drag , until the driller-killer finally first shows up , which is really late into the movie . The movie however after that soon also turns from silly to sillier . The Slumber Party Massacre movies are perhaps the only chick-flick horror movies , also not in the least because all of them ( expect for part IV , that from I have heard is more porn than horror . ) are directed by female directors . So expect lots of jumping around , dancing , crying , yelling , silly laughing and halve naked men . It's sort of a nice touch for a change to see an horror movie made as a chick flick . It puts a whole other light on the slasher genre . The movie only gets its trills from the dream sequences , that are well made and provide the movie at times with a good surreal like atmosphere but real problem with those dream sequences is that they EXACTLY show what will happen all later in the movie . How stupid is that . So nothing in this movie will really come as a surprise anymore , also especially of course when you have seen the first movie you will know what is going to happen all . The movie however is letting you wait for so long until these things are finally happening all that you will have difficulties keeping interest throughout . The driller-killer himself is this time definitely more interesting and entertaining than the one in the first movie . This however in this case also means that a lot of the mystery and suspense of the character is taken away this time . Horror likely wise not a great move of course . But oh well , he still is the highlight of the movie , thanks to the wonderful enjoyable campy over-the-top acting by Atanas Ilitch . Silly , silly , silly . Oh and before I forget , the ending makes this movie even sillier .
Odd comedy .	This movie is not like other comedies , it's extremely violent , offensive and weird at times , the result is an odd comedy that has its few moments . The movie starts of quite well and has a good concept but later on the movie suddenly takes a turn and becomes even more odder and unlikely than the first halve , with the weird and sudden musical number that doesn't fit into the movie at all as the ultra lowest point of the movie . I lost all my respect and interest after that moment . But sure the movie has its moments . There are some comical and funny moments and Rijk de Gooyer plays an enjoyable character but all of that is simply not enough to save this movie . Not worth seeing .
Some good humor and good looking werewolf's but absolutely no story or style .	This movie really feels like an empty one . Basically the story is about nothing and it never is really going somewhere because of its incoherent feeling it has . Basically this movie is subplot after subplot without really one main focus . I think this is also due to the fact that the main character is not really interesting or likable enough . Also the movie is seriously lacking in style . It has an awful ' made-for-tv ' kind of look , completely with the standard camera-work and editing . Still the humor makes this movie somewhat fun to watch but it simply ain't enough to prevent this movie from being an disappointing and bad late sequel to the 1981 movie " An American Werewolf in London " directed by the obviously more talented director John Landis . The story is set in Paris but somehow for some reason the makers didn't really took advantage of this . The movie doesn't even look like it was made in Paris and I think I'm probably right to think so , considering that this movie filming locations also include Amsterdam , Luxembourgh and Metz . Probably the only sequences filmed in Paris were the ones with the Eiffel tower . Probably the obviously low budget was the reason for this but still it remains a missed opportunity to try and give this movie some more atmosphere and style . The movie does deserve credit for the werewolf scene's . Its obvious were they spend most of the budget on . The transformation sequences are nicely done and the early CGI for the werewolf's is also pretty nicely done , especially when considering that his movie was made back in 1997 . Sure , it looks outdated at times but still it surprised and impressed me how advanced the effects looked at times . Watchable ? Just maybe slightly . The humor is enjoyable at times but the movie seriously lacks a good script and characters . If you like werewolf movies this maybe still be a worthy movie to watch for you .
About as flat as Margo Stilley's chest .	Really not too sure what to think about this one . OK so all this movie does is show a relationship between two people , that is mostly based on purely the sex . But the movie just never goes deep into things ( no pun intended ) . It's not a movie that raises or answers any questions regarding relationships or even the fact why these two are attracted to each other and what the exact status of the relationship and feelings toward each other is . You can call this movie a realistic observation if you will but that doesn't make the movie also interesting or appealing to watch . The movie gets back and forth between conversations between the two main characters , rock concerts ( also not my taste of music obviously ) and explicit sex sequences . The movie knows to include scenes of Antartica are included throughout , with the main character Matt flying over it and providing and providing a voice over , with wisdoms and fact about Antartica ( yeah whatever ! ) . Oh and also a Michael Nyman piano concert . . . The constant cutting back and forth between those sequences makes this a fairly disjointed and also definitely shallow movie to watch . Thank goodness that the movie only lasts for just over an hour because it all starts to become pretty tiresome to watch after a while , since the movie just isn't heading anywhere . The sex sequences and nudity within this movie is really explicit . Really some stuff you would normally expect to see in some porn flick , although it is obviously done with more class and style in this case . The movie definitely doesn't get uplifted by its actors . Kieran O'Brien was OK but Margo Stilley is horrible . Almost really toe cringing bad . The way she delivers her lines is awful and very amateur like and I really mean amateur like in a non-realistic way . It of course also doesn't help that the movie has ( deliberatly ) no character development , which makes the movie all the more shallow . But this is certainly no horrible movie . I mean , it's a definitely professionally made movie and director Michael Winterbottom is definitely not an untalented person . The movie obviously also had noble intentions . It's at least not like they wanted to make a explicit porn-flick or anything like that . That I can say for sure . It's the sort of movie that makes you say and think ; Whatever ! It's professionally made all but also feels pointless , since its not controversial enough for todays standards and doesn't raise any discussions or questions . So what exactly was the point of this movie , if there even was any ?
What an odd little film .	Hard to put a label on this movie . The movie begins as a ( rather poor ) non-serious comedy but slowly turns into dramatic war movie about morals and belief . This in my opinion was a very poor and even odd movie to watch . The movie as a whole made a very redundant impression and it seemed like the filmmakers themselves weren't even sure what kind of movie they wanted to make and in what style . The story is about a young soldier , who during a raid , during the The Cyprus Emergency , suddenly starts screaming , causing the death of a fellow solider . The young solider later claims he saw a vision of God , which ultimately leads to his superiors questioning his sanity . How do writers come up with these sort of things ? ! Later one they more start to believe and protect him and the movie gets multiple layered with themes such as morals and belief . Problem that none of the subjects ever get fully lighted and developed , which causes the movie to make an incomplete and unsatisfying impression . I like movies that handle fairly unknown and sort of forgotten subjects regarding human history , especially military one's . This movie concentrates on The Cyprus Emergency but it doesn't do much with this subject and backdrop unfortunately . I mean , if this movie had been about WW II the movie would had just been the same and certainly not any better or worse . Tom Courtenay really did poorly in this movie . He never made the character sympathetic or likable enough and on top if that , his acting was just below par . But oh well , it's his first ever movie role , so it's sort of explainable . Thanks goodness that the other actors in this movie do know how to act . Some scene's and dialogs seemed to be endless , until they reached the point that they became irritating and tiresome . The movie is only 89 minutes short but it really shouldn't had been any longer ! The movie obviously didn't had a very high budget but they did a good job with it . The movie isn't cheap looking , which is also thanks to the fine looking locations and environments of the movie . Awkward little movie , that does't really have any redeeming qualities .
The cow says boo !	" Home on the Range " is lacking almost in everything that made other Disney animated movies so charming , memorable and unique . Overall the movie also feels like it was made in a rush . The story is incredibly simple and uninteresting and has some totally uninteresting and lacking characters in it who don't exactly help to make the movie more vivid or interesting . Also the animations themselves look rushed and uses some totally pointless computer animations at times and the humor is predictable and mostly childish . Truly the biggest problem I had with this movie were the characters . They all were so totally underdeveloped in their personality and their relations . There also are way too many characters in this movie . The movie is only 76 minutes long but yet it finds time to introduce countless character , even halve way through the movie when the movie is already heading toward its ending . Also the main ' villain ' is introduced too late into the movie and also isn't much good of a character either . He us a totally uninteresting and forgettable villain that likes to yodel . There are some good characters in the movie ( The Willie Brothers , Rico , Buck ) but all those character are heavily underused in the movie . The movie had way more potential , if they had only spend more time on the story . It certainly is a waste of a good voice cast . The humor is most of the time very childish and oh so predictable . Granted that there are some typical funny typical Disney moments which made me laugh out loud but unfortunately those moments were too few . Certainly not enough to save the movie anyway . " Home on the Range " is nothing more than a childish and very forgettable movie , that lacks a good story and characters and only has a few laughs in it .
Like a " Thunderbirds " episode ! . . . without the puppets .	I knew this movie was going to be silly but I tried to watch it as objectively as possible . In the beginning this still went well but as the movie progressed the story lost more and more credibility , which was not only due to the poor silly story but also due to the poor film-making in general . The story is not just only silly in terms of its premise but it's also filled with some implausibilities and giant plot holes . Like for instance , why don't the Americans launch a full scale attack after they discovered the Chinese rouge army , that plans to explode nuclear bombs on ( or under ) American soil ? Instead they send about a dozen man , of which some aren't even used to combat situations . And why do the Chinese transport a couple of nuclear bombs without even an escort ? The more you start thinking about this movie and its story , the sillier it gets . Perhaps you should try to watch this movie without thinking too much . It's the kind of story material normally used in a simple " Thunderbirds " episode , in which they have to save the world in 20 minutes time . The story is original and in its core it had potential . However the way everything is brought to the screen is far from impressive or credible . I mean when they basically use giant flashlights for laser-beams , it's hard to take this movie serious . Also throughout the movie they occasionally use multiple sequences multiple times , in some cases even three times the same shot ! Due to money or time problems ? Anyway , it doesn't do the movie much good . And why aren't the Chinese main villains being portrayed by Chinese , or even just Asians for that matter . Instead they are now being portrayed by British actors , with make-up , which works far from convincing to say the least . But also the rest of the actors aren't much good . Hard to say if that's entirely their fault , since the characters that they have to play are also far from well developed or even interesting enough to follow . Guess in a way it's one of those movies that is so bad that it becomes good . The movie still does has its entertaining moments but yet the way the movie is made as a whole makes sure that you can't help to laugh and cringe at this movie .
Pretty lame , though genre fans will probably still somewhat like it .	This is a pretty lame , poorly written B-horror movie , that remains stuck somewhere between an homage to - and more comical approach of horror movies of the ' 70's and ' 80's ( The Romero , Argento and Fulci type of horror flicks ) and a serious attempt of making a good , gory horror flick . Lots of these types of movie got and still gets made , rarely ever with a good result . This is unfortunately one of those bad movies . It takes forever for things to start off in those movie ( most likely because of its low budget ) and the written and dialog is just plain bad . Of course also the actors in this movie really aren't among the finest . When things finally start off , continuity and the character behavior becomes really bad and unbelievable , which also at times makes this an hard and also definitely unpleasant movie to follow . It also makes the intended comedy in this movie work out all the more lame . Sad thing is that the movie tries to put in many scare effects but the timing and just overall execution of it is so terrible that it often becomes more laughable than anything else really . It gives the movie also really an amateurish feeling in parts . Of course the movie is predictable in basically every regard . The movie just simply doesn't bother to put in any creativity or originality . On a positive note ; despite it's low budget the movie is still a good looking one , with a good visual style and also some decent make-up . Too bad that it didn't got used for a better movie . There is also some gore pleasant but somehow it doesn't know to entertain or shock as much as its look allowed it to be . It just doesn't work out , just as rarely anything really works out well enough in this movie . Really not much good .
Some bad but entertaining pulp .	This movie obviously doesn't take itself very serious , which is the reason why this movie still remains an entertaining one to watch . The movie is filled with some extreme stereotype characters ( you know , the kind that's so over-the-top that it misses its mark and looses its effect ) bad dialog and an of course silly concept and bad written story to begin with . It's especially hilarious to see how more important the game , rather then their lives is to all of the characters involved . Even real freaks aren't that freaky ! That's a serious and gruesome computer-monster that is killing them one by one in a horrible way but who cares when a game its development and a million dollar bonus is at stake . . . They just hide the bodies and go on with their work for as long as they can . But to be honest , the ridicules concept isn't as poorly developed or handled as you would expect from a movie like this ( even though of course the movie is obviously filled with some highly unlikely and ridicules events . ) I liked how well the game-world translated into the real world . Yes , that really is how PC games looked like in 2001 . Guess people will have a good laugh at it in 10 years from now . The in-game effects are certainly better looking than most movies ever normally try to bother to . Seems like they seriously did some research and were advised correctly and spend some real money on it . It's certainly refreshing and good to see after so many failed and just plain bad attempts from Hollywood to let video-games - and the computer world in general play key parts of the movie . However big problem with the movie remains that's not scary or serious enough for a horror , not science-fiction / fantasy-full / original enough for a science-fiction movie and not bad and / or campy enough for successful cult-classic . It is also hard to tell what the movie actually tried to achieve and in which category it wanted to be put under . Because of that all , the gore also doesn't work out . I mean , the movie is pretty gory in parts , since it features more than 1 cut of limb or head but yet the movie just never strikes as a gross or gruesome one . For these reasons alone you just can't regard this movie as a successful - or great one . Still amazing to see how many great actors are in the movie . It's however an uneven balance of actors who knew that they were cast for the B-movie value of the movie and actors who try to make the movie look as authentic and realistic as possible . Tyler Mane and Jason Marsden are great as the stereotype characters but it was quite sad to see Clea DuVall . I mean , I see this as an actress who will most likely win an Oscar within the next 7 years . Same goes to some extend also for Steven Culp . He's the guy who played Robert F . Kennedy in " Thirteen Days " for goodness sake ! The movie is definitely not a great one but nevertheless it remains an entertaining one to watch , since it obviously also didn't took itself very serious to begin with in the first place .
Delicious bad and simple ' 70's genre work .	The atmosphere of this movie is unmistakably ' 70's like , with ridicules hair-cuts and outfits . The movie is like many other genre movies from the ' 70's , meaning that it features nudity , lots of gore and yes also a dwarf . The movie further more of course also features some really bad sound and fake looking reddish ' 70's blood . The acting is below par , as you would expect , with the exception of course of Michael Gough , who's presence alone is good enough to uplift this movie . He is not as well known as a Peter Cushing or a Christopher Lee but his acting is always excellent . The movie is unnecessarily slow at times . Some sequences go on for too long without really adding something to the build up or the overall story and movie . It doesn't make the movie always flow really well and make the movie feel overlong , even though it's well below 2 hours short . The atmosphere and horror elements of the movie are rather good . The movie uses some nice and atmospheric settings and some effective but simple cinematography . Michael Gough also adds to the movie its atmosphere and horror , also with the help of his killing automobile and mysterious henchmen and other strange characters . The story itself is quite ridicules , mainly because it isn't going anywhere really . Therefor the movie perhaps makes a bit of a pointless impression but overall the movie is entertaining enough to consider this a simple and typically enjoyable ' 70's genre movie . Obviously a movie for fans only .
They tried their best but it simply is impossible to capture the magic of the book .	" Pluk van de petteflet " is based on the famous Dutch children book with the same name written by Annie M . G . Schmidt , who was and probably still is the most popular children book writer in The Netherlands , of all time . A sort of the Dutch Roald Dahl you may say . I don't think there is a person in The Netherlands who didn't grew up with at least one of her famous children books . Her books are also often read by parents and by teachers at schools for the the children . " Pluk van de petteflet " is one of her best known books she has written . The book consists out of several small adventures all led by the main character , the young boy Pluk and is filled with some crazy imaginative , enjoyable characters . How on Earth is it possible to put all those crazy characters and adventures in a movie that is only 94 minutes long you might ask . Well it isn't possible , they tried but they failed . They tried to put way too many elements of the book in the movie and introduced way too many character that obviously serve a purpose in the book but in the movie only feel pointless and unneeded . All the things that are happening in the movie have the feeling that they have nothing to do with each other , this is also due to a very bad pace . Both the story and the characters feel very incoherent and the best parts of the book are wasted in this movie . If you have read the book you will recognize a lot of elements and characters in the movie but when you're not familiar with the book this movie will just look odd and very very bad to you . I mean lets face it , the story is very odd , I mean the main character is a little boy who apparently already has a drivers license and drives around in a small red break-down lorry and is looking for a place to live , without his parents or form of income . And then there are these crazy and odd looking over-the-top characters and a weird " Sesame Street " visual looking sets , costumes and use of puppets . No , if you haven't read the book this movie is simply already forbidden territory for you because chances are you'll probably won't enjoy a bit of it because it just in your eyes is way too odd all . This movie is only watchable for people who are familiar with the book . Will children enjoy this movie ? Most likely not , the movie isn't very much fun to watch and could had used some more humor . Also the whole part with the Heen - en Weerwolf is way too scary for the young ones , he even freaked me out a little . Will adults like this movie ? Well , they'll like this movie better than kids anyway . Adults should be able to appreciate the adult actors . The cast is filled with some well known Dutch names and it's pretty obvious on the screen that the adult actors all had lots of fun with each other and the crazy characters they were portraying . The children cast however is just plain bad . It's obvious that they casted kids who looked like the characters of the book instead of casting them for their acting abilities . It isn't really the directors or writer's fault that this movie didn't worked out . It simply is just impossible to capture any of the book its magic and the fantastic book illustrations from Fiep Westendorp . I think that they really did their best and the sets and use of puppets was probably the only right move , to try and create the same atmosphere of the book but it simply didn't worked out as a whole . Seriously , if I were in charge I would had probably done it the same way . There simply is no other better way they could had tried in my opinion . A nice but terribly failed attempt . Only just a tiny bit enjoyable when you're familiar with the book , if you aren't , just simply stay away from this movie . You're way better of reading the book or listening to the radio-version of the book that probably still is available on cassette decks or CD .
Weak story prevents this movie from being a fun one .	This could had really been a fun movie to watch . if it only had a more interesting story that also made sense . The story is about as uninteresting and not-engaging as it can get and is filled with improbabilities and unexplained things . Because of this you can't really enjoy this movie for what it is , since the jokes and characters don't really work out either because of these reasons . Why on Earth would models rob banks and how ever did the Jennifer Esposito character fall for the Jimmy Fallon character ? Just a few things that just don't make sense in the movie . The movie simply chooses not to bother to explain things . It makes " Taxi " a very shallow and simple movie , that is professionally made and looking but serious lacking in its substance . Because of this you can't really enjoy watching this movie either , although it certainly had potential , in its core . There are some fine actors in this movie . Queen Latifah is an Oscar nominated actress for a good reason ; she is great ! Even in a role like this . But seriously , she needs to stop doing these sort of simple movie , she is above that sort of movies . Jimmy Fallon is a good comedy actor but he is highly unlikely in his role as an undercover cop . Jennifer Esposito also isn't exactly credible in her role as police lieutenant . She is far too hot looking for that . OK that probably sounded sexist but it's true . Her looks really don't help to make her look believable in her role . There also are some smaller roles for well known actors such as Henry Simmons and Ann-Margret . The movie lacks a true great main villain . Gisele Bundchen plays the main villain in this movie but she doesn't exactly get much interesting to do to make here look like a cruel and believable villain . The only interesting moment with her is when she frisks the Jennifer Esposito character . Oh boy , here I go sounding sexist again but my God that scene was HOT ! Guess that sequence alone is the only reason for still watching this movie . The movie is professionally made and it has some good car stunts in it . They still bring some excitement to the movie and its story but its not all quite good enough to make this movie still a good and recommendable one . The directing however is flawed , or else the movie would at least had been more fun to watch . The combination of the flawed weak script and uninspiring formulaic directing from Tim Story make " Taxi " a failed attempt to make a fun joyful entertaining movie . If only Luc Besson also directed instead of just producing it . . . Who knows , perhaps he would had made the movie its weak story still work and transformed the movie into a more fun and engaging one to watch . Stick to the French Taxi movie ( s ) instead . At least they're more fun to watch .
Bill Cosby needed some sure quick simple cash ?	He isn't really that active anymore in the movie world , so I wouldn't be surprised at all if he made this movie purely for the money . The time was right for it , dozens of these types of movies were being released in those days and always did fairly well at the box offices . It therefor was a safe and secure investment for him to make some quick cash . I didn't knew Fat Albert anyway . I don't think it has even ever been aired in the Netherlands and even if so , it was before my time . Why make a movie based on a 30 year old animated series anyway ? It makes the characters and themes in this movie feel very outdated . It tries to change and update the characters throughout the movie but it isn't done in a very original way . The writers of this movie should never work on a movie again . You hear that Mr . Cosby ? Really , this movie is about nothing and doesn't really go anywhere . The movie of course tries to send out a moralistic message and all but this doesn't work out because the approach of the movie is way too childish , which can for most part be blamed on the story . It's of course ridicules that nobody recognizes Fat Albert and his gang on the street , except by Bill Cosby himself and some very young kids , which is all the more unbelievable since the show aired from 1972-1985 . Or a re-runs of it still really that popular ? The movie is filled with this sort of ridicules plot holes and simple approach of things , such as the way the character get from the cartoon world to the real world . It's terribly unoriginal and simple all . The movie had some potential , also with its themes and main character , but it gets all wasted in the movie . It's basically a really weak comedy , with not only some bad writing but also some weak comedy . The movie doesn't have any good or funny moments or characters in it . Sure , of course the movie made me chuckle a couple of times , but that of course doesn't make a good comedy . It's also a poorly directed movie , that is very standard and without that many creativity . And with some stupid comedy editing in it . You know , the kind of editing that focuses on a person constantly after every funny intended moment or line of dialog . I don't think it's a coincidence that only mostly weak comedies always have this kind of editing in it . The acting is disappointingly weak . The movie mostly features unknown and inexperienced actors , which really shows . By no means one of the worst movies I've ever seen but it's one of the most pointless comedies of recent years . This movie is unfortunately not the only example of a bad recent comedy . I just hope they'll stop making this sort of movies soon , but I don't expect they will , since these kind of movies are still very profitable and therefor attractive to make .
Lacking in almost everything a good horror movie needs .	This movie is mainly lacking one essential part for an horror movie ; scary moments . This movie never becomes close of being scary , mainly because the movie relies too much on its special effects rather than the story . Yes , the story really is the weakest part of the movie . I mean let's face it people , this movie is basically about nothing ! The story doesn't seem to go anywhere as the movie progresses and in the ending the movie becomes more and more ridicules and implausible . The movie is truly lacking in scary moments also because the timing is just plain bad . Not once did this movie become scary or even tense . Still you have to give the movie credit for a few things . The actors are really superb . But why on Earth is the main character played by Lili Taylor , when you have a cast with Liam Neeson , Catherine Zeta-Jones , Owen Wilson and even Bruce Dern ? Lili Taylor is the least known actress of the cast but yet she plays the main part . Yes , I know she was kind of ' hot ' in the ' 90's but noway near as ' hot ' as Zeta-Jones at the time , who had just done " The Mask of Zorro " or Liam Neeson who just before this had done " Star Wars : Episode I - The Phantom Menace " and " Rob Roy " , " Michael Collins " and " Schindler's List " a few years before . Bruce Dern and also Virginia Madsen are terribly underused in this movie , I wouldn't describe their roles as anything more than just a cameo appearance . Also something that this movie deserves credit for is the look of it . Director Jan de Bont had always been inspired by Stanley Kubrick's " The Shining " , also back in his days as director of cinematography . This is really notable especially in this movie . There is nothing wrong with the fine cinematography by Karl Walter Lindenlaub , who used to be the director of cinematography of many Roland Emmerich movies and Caleb Deschanel who later dropped out due to creative differences . That's mildly put , Jan de Bont basically is a pain to work with for cinematographers because de Bont used to be a cinematographer himself for years . Cinematographer Don Burgess already also had left the set after ' differences ' with de Bont during the filming of " Twister " . The editing however is bad , I can't believe that it was Michael Kahn who worked on this movie ! Persons who will be fairly entertained by this movie are the fans of special effects . There are some nicely made effects , which however are not scary and suitable for an horror movie of this type . It's not a completely unwatchable movie but still a weak and un-scary movie that most certainly is not recommendable . Not even to the fans of the genre .
Annoying , stupid , over-dramatized , bittersweet drama .	Sorry folks but this movie was just plain bad ! The story is incredibly over-dramatized and over-the-top sweet at times . For me this was a very annoying movie to watch . Even though Sean Penn is good in his role his character is far from a believable one . The way his characters acts and time and says some things makes his character totally unbelievable and perhaps a bit over-the-top at times . Really a horrible portrayal and perhaps at times even offensive portrayal of a mentally disabled person . There also is some totally misplaced humor in the movie with Sean Penn's character mentally disabled friends , which I found to be totally unnecessary . Thankfully there also still are some good character portrayals in the movie by Michelle Pfeiffer , Dakota Fanning , Dianne Wiest and Laura Dern . The movie doesn't only over-dramatize it also wants to be overly artistic at times . The camera-positions and style of editing are at times completely pointless . The camera-work in general is also too intense for a movie like this one . The intense camera-work by Elliot Davis worked for a kind of movie like " Thirteen " but is completely out of place in a drama movie like this one . I still like his style of lighting for this movie though . Another thing that annoyed me was the musical score by John Powell . The score was incredibly simple and had no beauty or what so ever in it . In fact it truly annoyed me at times and distracted from what was happening on the screen ( not that much interesting or new was happening on it though ) . The movie is way too bittersweet . The movie has some totally unbelievable and over-the-top sweet and moralistic moments in it . The movie its intentions were good but it simply tries too hard to be emotional and dramatic in almost every aspect . The ending was also totally lame and left an incredibly bad aftertaste and was completely unsatisfying . Why so many people fall for this annoying over-dramatized movie really puzzles me . With currently a 7 . 2 rating , this movie is terribly overrated here on IMDb . com .
A more simple and B-movie version of " Darkman " .	The first movie " Darkman " , directed by Sam Raimi , was also already made in a B-movie kind of style but in the fun and comic book type of B-movie . The kind of style all Sam Raimi movies till some extend have in them . But this movie is just made in a bad B-movie kind of way , with some horrible dialog , lacking editing and simple camera compositions . It actually shows how uniquely talented Sam Raimi is , with his hard to copy style . And how is Durant still alive in this one ? I remember that the helicopter crash from the first " Darkman " movie in which Durant died was one of the most fatal looking once out of movie history . It exploded like a balloon , with an enormous blast . No way that it's credible that anyone walked away from that one . But yet somehow had the bright idea for this sequel to let Durant return . And come on , he wasn't even the ' main ' villain in the first " Darkman " movie but yet they show him in this movie as one of the biggest crime bosses in the country . But of course the Durant character is Larry Drake's greatest role and he is one of the bes movie villains out of recent movie history . So it didn't mind seeing Larry Drake reprise his role from the first movie , although I would had of course preferred a more creative solution to let his character return . The story as a whole was a disappointing aspect of the movie . I was shocked at how simple and without ambition it was . It somehow even features a group of Neo-Nazi's and a crazy professor . The most thrilling aspects in the movie are the recycled sequences from the first movie , in which Westlake takes over the identity of the henchman of Durant . What I did liked about the movie was that it showed more as a crime fighter with morals this time . It was not just a revenge movie this time . The movie and its characters are still all portrayed in an over-the-top comic book kind of way but it this time doesn't really work out as good as in the first movie , which is I think also partly due to the obvious lower budget of the movie . With this movie Arnold Vosloo shows he's a good actor , although his South African accent is too notable in the movie . It's good for most of his roles but just not suitable for Dr . Peyton Westlake . He is fine as Darkman though and he obviously carefully looked at how Liam Neeson played the character previously . Also Larry Drake shines again although he also was struggling with delivering some of the badly written dialog . Not even he could make it sound good and believable . Most of the other new characters are all mostly just disappointing ones , not to mention the horrible actors that portray them all . A disappointing movie that could had worked but just doesn't ever does so , which can for most part be blamed on the script .
A miss from McGoohan .	I really like Patrick McGoohan's most other directed Columbo movies really much , since his directing style certainly give the movies something extra . However he went too far with this movie . The directing and story-telling in general is different from the usual Columbo movie formula . It's a real slow moving movie , in which the killer himself also isn't known to the viewers this time , until of course the very ending . It's obvious they wanted to try something different for the Columbo series , as they tried numerous times before and after this movie as well . Funny though that they always went back to the usual Columbo style we all are so accustomed to . Really problem with this movie is its pacing . It's annoyingly slow . Sequences seem to go on for ever without getting to its point . It really makes you wonder why the movie wasn't provided with any more pace . At one point Lt . Columbo goes into a trance . The actual movie itself also really feels like it goes into a trance though . It really doesn't make this movie a pleasant one to watch . It's not like the story is anything too bad , or the approach of not revealing who the killer is , or how the murder was committed , until the very end , is a bad one but it just doesn't work out with this type of directing approach as got picked by Patrick McGoohan , who is probably also better known and respected as an actor than a director really . One thing McGoohan still does right though is the movie its humor . He is one of those directors who understood the Columbo character well and knew how to throw in the right kind of relieving humor , involving the character . Though being a close personal friend of Peter Falk , he probably gave him a bit too much room though to do his comedy thing , since he definitely goes a bit over-the-top with it at times . Oh well , at least he still probably had lots of fun with it . Poor Robert Vaughn . He's a great actor but the Columbo movies he has starred in just aren't among the greatest . He deserved better , also since he seems really like an actor who is the right guy for playing these type of roles in these types of movies . Tiresome off-boat Columbo entry . It has a good typical Columbo ending though .
Silly . . .	The words terrible or awful are not the right words to describe this movie properly , it's just mainly a silly movie with a silly story that often doesn't make sense story-wise . Now thing that do is absolutely terrible in this movie is the acting by the incredible B-actors . Casting Bruce Boxleitner as the president of the United States was a laughable choice . Even George W . Bush looks more believable as a powerful man . But completely silly is the story , that is filled with some rather big implausibilities , not just from a virology point of view ( hey you don't have to be a doctor to see that the events in the movie are far fetched and just highly unlikely and impossible to really happen ) but also just story-wise , the movie doesn't always make completely sense which is also due to some horrible dialogs at times . And they even managed to put a love story in the movie , bravo ! ( Yes , that was sarcasm . . . ) It's pretty obvious that not a whole lot of talent was involved behind the camera's . The movie has this typical awful made-for-TV kind of look . But what else did you expect from a director like John Murlowski who before this made ' classics ' like " Amityville : A New Generation " , " Santa with Muscles " and " Richie Rich's Christmas Wish " . ( Yep , sarcasm again . ) The movie gets tense at times but all the silly elements of the movie really bring down the quality of the movie . Absolutely not recommendable but than again why would anyone decide to go and watch this movie in the first place ?
Quirky . . .	This movie was a rather odd viewing experience . The movie is obviously based on a play . Now I'm sure that everything in this movie works out just fine in a play but for in a movie it just doesn't feel terribly interesting enough to watch . The movie is way too ' stagey ' and they didn't even bothered to change some of the dialog to make it more fitting for a movie . Instead what is presented now is an almost literally re-filming of a stage-play , with over-the-top characters and staged dialog . Because of all this the storyline really doesn't work out and the movie becomes an almost complete bore - and obsolete viewing experience . It takes a while before you figure out that this is a comedy you're watching . At first you think its a drama you're watching , with quirky characters in it but as the movie progresses you'll notice that the movie is more a tragicomedy , that leans really more toward the comedy genre , rather than the drama genre . The characters and dialog are really the things that make this movie a quirky and over-the-top one that at times really become unwatchable . Sure , the actors are great ; Peter O'Toole and Susannah York , amongst others but they don't really uplift the movie to a level of ' watchable enough ' . The story feels totally disorientated . Basicaly the story is about nothing and just mainly focuses on the brother / sister characters played by Peter O'Toole and Susannah York . But what exactly is the story even about ? The movie feels like a pointless and obsolete one that has very little to offer . Like I said before ; I'm sure the story is good and interesting to watch on stage but as a movie it really isn't fitting and simply doesn't work out . The editing is simply dreadful and times and it becomes even laughable bad in certain sequences . More was to expect from director J . Lee Thompson , who has obviously done far better movies than this rather failed , stage-play translated to screen , project . Really not worth your time .
Bad storytelling and lots of other things makes this one of the most pointless movies you'll perhaps ever see .	I tried to watch this movie once before in the past but honestly couldn't finish watching it and turned it off after about halve an hour . The story and story-telling was ridicules , the flow was just off and I didn't liked were the movie was heading to and it made me tired watching it , since it made such an absolutely pointless impression . The story is just bad since its hard to believe . Guess these sort of things really happen in the world but it just doesn't ever get believable in the movie , mostly because of the reason that it just never gets interesting . Which character are we supposed to sympathize for ? The Kate Winslet one ? I don't think so , since she plays a brainwashed , manipulative character , who turned her cheek to her family and ' normal ' way of life . The Harvey Keitel one then ? No , really not . He's a character that sleeps and slaps around and cheats on his wife . The editing is a reason why the movie just never flows and makes the movie feel incoherent . Also the cinematography makes some odd choices at times . To me some of the shots even seemed amateur like . Weird , since Dion Beebe is an one time Oscar winner - and nominee , so perhaps simply blame the director ? Further more the movie uses slow-motion at the oddest times , so that it becomes laughable , instead of effective . The movie gets all the more weird from the moment Harvey Keitel starts to wear a dress . How can you take anything else that's happening after that serious ? You can say that the comedy goes at the expense of the drama but this also is vice versa the case . Guess this movie will also be remembered as the one with Harvey Keitel walking in the Australian desert , with full make-up on and in a dress . All of the family characters are supposed to be humorous and a wild bunch of crazy people but their all so horribly stereotypical that this just never works out . All of the actors portraying them also seem to be non-actors , which could had worked for the realism but simply doesn't because of the reason that they were supposed to be comical . Some of the dialog and moments are supposed to be humorous but they all feel awkward . It's almost embarrassing to watch . The endless talking about nothing between the Kate Winslet and Harvey Keitel also don't help to make this movie the most interesting or fast going movies . Just think about it , what gets achieved in this movie ? Absolutely nothing and therefor the movie is a totally pointless and redundant one . It tries to go deep but it seems to afraid to ever push really through . No offense or anything but by just looking at this movie you can tell it was directed by a woman . It's just too obvious all . It features lots of dancing and jumping around , sincere and realistic emotions , kissing around and all the male characters have all the usual stereotypical element in them ( of which most are true of course ) . All the men are pigs , who love to drink , try to hide their emotions , slap around and all they try is to get in a woman's pants . The movie is also filled with lots off elements that I suppose are part of female sexual fantasies . All of the sex and love in this movie seems to be focused purely in a way women want it to be . Nothing wrong with that all of course but it just doesn't work for a mainstream movie , with also big name actors in it . After you've already been nominated and have won an Oscar ( both for " The Piano " ) , you just can't expect from people to take your further work as anything small - and without ambitious intentions . Without Harvey Keitel in it , I would had probably never finished watching this movie . He's a great actor that is great in his role and helps to keep the movie going . And well Kate Winslet , I just never have been really a fan of hers , although she certainly has qualities as an actress . Pam Grier plays a far too small role in this movie . They should had made her role bigger , to provide the movie at least with one more good and interesting character . It also could had uplifted the story and provided it with some more layers . A really big missed opportunity here . Pointless , redundant , awful .
Well for what it's worthy , it's better than the previous movie .	This is still a pretty bad and silly simplistic typical slasher but when being compared to the previous sequel " Slumber Party Massacre II " this movie is a step up from that one . What is mostly silly in the Slumber Party Massacre movies is that it features always a different driller-killer but things just never get explained why and how . Yes , this movie does provide a bit of an explanation but its not a particular good or credible one . It's the foremost reason why the Slumber Party Massacre movies are pretty simplistic in their form and concept . The only thing the movies are somewhat original in is that it features girls in the main roles and the movie is somewhat of an horror-chick-flick . The first killing occurs pretty fast into the movie , just as was the case with the original , which keeps things going pretty fast from the start on and doesn't make the movie drag as much and be such a total bore as " Slumber Party Massacre II " . As a matter of fact this movie is just very similar to the first movie . Very similar indeed . It perhaps seems more like a remake , or update with more nudity , than an actual sequel . So don't expect this movie to be a terribly original one . The gore compensates a lot however . The previous Slumber Party Massacre movies weren't that really gory but this movie knows to throw in a couple of good gory sequences . Nothing the genre fan couldn't handle but it's all good enough . The story gets basically thrown overboard when the killer makes his entrance to the party . It makes it a pretty dumb movie to watch but it of course is all mostly consistent with other genre examples . The story just isn't the foremost important thing in a teenage-slasher flick . As you would expect , the acting also really isn't much special and the characters all remain terribly flat but it sort of all adds to the camp and status of the entire movie . Oh well , it's all watchable enough for the true fans of the genre and for the people who gave up watching Slumber Party Massacre movies-series after the previous sequel , give this movie a change , you might up liking this movie . For people who just want to see a good slasher-flick , just skip this one .
Yay , a look into somebody else's depression . . .	. . . Yep , that was sarcasm . In all honesty I can't think of any reason why anyone should ever watch this movie . I really think and feel , while watching this movie , that everyone involved with making this movie thought that they were making something Oscar-worthy . Besides , why else would so many stars had appeared in this movie ? The movie tries to be very style-full in some of its sequences and with its style of directing but it only works laughable and distracting , since the story itself simply does not work out at all . All that the movie does is give us a view in the life of a depressive student . Is this interesting to watch ? No and for the following reason ; the main character just isn't likable in her action and behaviors and she rather pushes the viewers away , then to provide them a look in what is going on in her mind . She remains too unpredictable and ' weird ' for that . You just CAN'T have a good movie when the main character isn't likable and / or easy to identify with . That probably is the reason why mostly only persons who have suffered from a depression - or are still in the middle of one , still like watching this movie . They can relate to the main character and her actions and behavior . The ' healty ' person just simply can't . The movie just doesn't allow it . The movie seems to be lacking a purpose in what it is trying to tell or achieve . The movie is just ongoing rambling about a depression , without having a real conclusion or solution , even though the movie features an annoying ' all-knowning ' voice-over . If this movie already won't make you depressive while watching it , then surely the musical score will . It's so horrendous and simple . The story also doesn't flow very well . I think that the movie tries to tell too much in a too short running time ( the movie is only about one and an halve hour long ) . Some of the cuts don't work and the movie often takes too big leaps in its time-line . In all honesty , the movie really didn't started off as a bad one but about halve way through the movie I had the feeling that I had seen it all by now and the movie just wasn't heading anywhere interesting anymore with its story and characters . Guess that the only true redeeming quality of the movie is its acting . The movie is filled with some big - and superb actors . Christina Ricci proofs she can really act and by now is far more than just another ex-child movie star . Jessica Lange also gives an impressive performance as the mother . The rest of the movie seems weirdly cast but all of the actors work out pretty well in their roles , such as Jason Biggs in a good serious role and Anne Heche as a psychiatrist , though the choice for her seems weird , considering her own psychological history . The movie further more features Michelle Williams and Jonathan Rhys Meyers in some small but good roles . It's a pointless to watch this movie , since the main character is hard to ever relate to and she's far from a like-able one . Only perhaps watchable if you yourself can relate to the events and main character of the movie .
Mumbling in space .	What a miss from the otherwise successful duo Steven Soderbergh and George Clooney . It takes a slow approach , you know with static shots and all but nevertheless still doesn't feature any real long sequences . Because of this the approach just doesn't really work out for the movie . The movie also doesn't ever really properly build up things . Things just happen as they come along , making it all the more harder to understand or find ever realistic . It's also the reason why the movie is fairly short . It's especially short when considering the movie its source material and when comparing it to the 1972 first version of the movie , that is over an hour longer . I'll bet that the movie is even worse and more confusing to follow when you haven't read the Stanislaw Lem novel , or have seen the 1972 Soviet version of the movie , by Andrei Tarkovsky . Since then you'll probably have simply no idea what this movie is all about . The movie doesn't feature any deeper meanings to it , as if Steven Sodenbergh didn't really understood any of the meanings of the original story . Or perhaps he simply tried to make a simplified and more mainstream version . It just totally misses its mark and fails on basically every level . For a mystery it's just way too confusing and doesn't have the right atmosphere for it , for a drama its not involving enough and for a romantic movie it just isn't credible , mainly because of Natascha McElhone . Of course the movie is still great looking and Steven Soderbergh is of course still a very skilled director , despite really missing the mark with this movie . It's also nice to see the actors at work , despite not being given great material to work with . George Clooney is always great in any movie and in any type of role . Most other roles in the movie though sort of leave a pointless impression , or at least not significant enough for the story , with the exception of the Natascha McElhone character of course but I don't know , she is just an actress who always sort of annoys me . Confusing , non-engaging mess , that misses its mark , despite it's wonderful and powerful source material .
Put this tuxedo back in the closet please .	Plain and simple ; " The Tuxedo " is a bad movie . It already had a ridicules concept but it has an even worse execution of it . There are several problems with this movie , one of them is the humor . For a comedy it has an awful few laughs and comical situations in it , so it's hard to tell what for a kind of movie the makers exactly tried to create here . Also the script is terribly lacking . The movie lacks a clear main plot line and has a silly villainous plot in it that's just way too ridicules , even for a movie like this one . On top of that , the main villain is hardly ever used in the movie and the movie mainly focus and Jackie Chan and his antics . Fans of Chan will also be disappointed by this , he hardly gets to show anything cool and is unfortunately given more dialog as fight sequences . Not even the presence of Jason Isaacs and Peter Stormare is enough to save this movie from being a disaster . Jason Isaacs is given a very bland role and not even he with his great charisma can prevent his character from being dull and totally uninteresting . Yes , Peter Stormare does play a good and fun role but one good role isn't of course enough to carry and save an entire movie . Jennifer Love Hewitt was also horrible in her role . I like her but she isn't much of a comical talent . No way I'm ever watching this movie again .
No Sir , I don't like it .	This is a comedy with zero plot , dull characters and simple thought out comical moments . The movie merely serves as a vehicle for Martin Lawrence to do his same old routine of lots of screaming , jumping and acting like a tough talking , cool looking , naive person . Guess that in its core the movie still had some good comedy potential . I mean the story of a modern African-American getting stuck in the early 14th century , during the medieval times scream for some good and simple jokes about cultural differences between the different time periods . There are some good jokes made in the movie but everything feels so staged and forced that it at the same time gets highly unfunny . Guess the main character also doesn't help an awful lot . He is about as dumb and thick as they can get . I mean it takes him literally 30 minutes to understand that he's in a ' real ' medieval world and not at a theme park . But also after he learned this he doesn't pay much attention to his clearly too ' modern ' language and clothing . It makes the main character stupid but not in an amusing sort of way , like in many other comedies often is the case . The movie itself actually pays very little attention to the plot line . There isn't really much happening and only toward the ending of the movie , the movie is starting to pay attention to its story . Too little too late I'm afraid . It's not like the story makes a lot of sense either . During that time not many black people were around and those that were , were definitely not treated as kindly as portrayed in this movie . Almost every character obviously sees a black person for the first time but nobody seems to be really bothered and everyone , good or evil , accepts his presence immediately . The ' evil ' king ( quite frankly I didn't see in this movie exactly how he was evil ) even makes him a Lord at one point . But portraying things otherwise would of course had been considered to be racist and not political correct . But some more jokes about this still sensitive subject wouldn't had harmed the movie . For some reason I have the feeling that Martin Lawrence himself objected to a this kind of an approach . The movie is fair enough looking with its sets and costumes and obviously cost more than the average genre movie . A waste of a good budget you may say . Next time they should spend it on a better director , writers and an actor who isn't full of himself and plays basically the same character in every movie that he appears in . Yes , of course the movie still has some good moments to make this movie still somewhat watchable but it overall is way too disjointed , simple and not thought out well enough to consider this even a good enough genre movie .
Hot chicks & cool cars . . .	. . . yep , it's a guy movie all right . " The Fast and the Furious " is the movie that made street racing popular ( at least here in The Netherlands it did ) But is it good movie ? I think not , i found it pretty disappointing , maybe it was because I set my expectations for it too high . The movie is nothing more then a remake of " Point Break " with cars , set in the 00's and is aimed at the teenage viewers . The story is pretty simple and to be honest I didn't liked it , I wanted to see more racing instead of focusing on the undercover mission of Brian . So basically I'm saying that the movie would have been better if it didn't had a story at all ! The characters and the atmosphere can be described as " cool " . I actually like the acting in this one and I'm one of the few people who thinks that Vin Diesel is actually a pretty talented actor that just wastes his talent by playing only cool macho guys . Watch " Saving Private Ryan " to understand what I'm talking about . And Ja Rule actually acts better then he sings , but I don't know if that's a compliment . The car scene's are all right but it didn't gave me the adrenaline rush I wanted and the were to little race scene's for my taste . The movie does have it's moments , but overall it's disappointing . All in all only watchable if you like cool cars and fast racing . I just hope that the second one will be better .
Style or no style , this movie remains confusingly bad .	I'm an huge Brian De Palma fan but that doesn't in my opinion mean that he can just get away with everything . " Femme Fatale " is definitely style over substance but is just style enough to save this movie ? Absolutely not . Biggest problem with this movie is the script . It's unnecessary difficult to follow at times , including the ending . On top of that the story just isn't interesting enough . Also the main character is an huge failure . I'm not blaming ex-model Rebecca Romijn-Stamos her acting skills for this , I simply blame it on the script . Her character never becomes accessible or interesting and remains difficult to understand and follow throughout the movie . Antonio Banderas is simply miscast , the role simply doesn't fit him . Thankfully there also are some well casted parts in the movie . Peter Coyote is always good in a movie . It was also great to see Gregg Henry in a De Palma movie again , even though his role in this movie was quite pointless . Another strong piece of casting was the beautiful Rie Rasmussen who in her small role perhaps leaves the biggest impression of the entire movie . It may sound weird but I still enjoy watching this movie , despite me rating it poorly . Like I said before I'm simply a big De Palma fan so there still is plenty to enjoy for me here . The beginning of the movie , ' the Cannes festival heist ' is extremely good and memorable and has De Palma his style written all over it . De Palma can build the tension in a movie like no other director can , even though the whole sequences reminded a bit too much of the other De Palma movie " Mission : Impossible " . To be honest De Palma never has been the most original director in the business but the scenes are simply always constructed so well and are so highly memorable that you'll always forgive him for not being terribly original . However in this case style alone is not good enough to save this movie . The movie leaves a messy , confusing impression afterward , which is simply due to the poor written story that ' tries too hard to be difficult ' at times . For De Palma fans it simply still remains a must see but everyone else can better skip this one , or should stop watching after the ' Cannes ' opening sequence .
Very badly written movie .	This is one of the most badly written movies I've seen in a long time . The movie is quit ridicules . The movie is about dragons from outer space ( ! ) who are attacking a kingdom during the dark ages . A team gets assembled to defeat the 5 remaining dragons . But like that's not enough already , the movie is also about a conspiracy by the bad king to overthrow to the good king , though both kings seemed like bad ones to me to be honest . The movie is quite laughable . It tries to be spectacular , funny and even epic . It tries so hard that it becomes ultimately laughable , because the movie itself is far from spectacular , funny and especially epic . The production values of the movie are far too low , though the movie certainly does not feature the wost special effects I've ever seen , especially considering that this is a made-for-TV-movie . That perhaps was the only thing that surprised me positively about the movie . Otherwise the movie isn't too good looking . The sets are obvious ruins and the mass scenes are a disgrace . Launching a full scale attack on a kingdom with about 15 , under equipped , men is a very laughable thing to watch , especially because throughout the movie the attack is presented as a great and serious threat to the kingdom . The movie is filled with many unlikely characters . The main ' hero ' is horrible looking , with an obvious fake wig . The rest of the dragon-slayer team consist out of the formulaic characters you would expect . None of them is really interesting or gets developed well enough in the movie . How did John Rhys-Davies ever got mixed up in this mess ? Perhaps he wanted a small Lord of the Rings rehash ? The action is presented as if its the most spectacular things ever brought to the screen . The first explosion of the movie really made me crackup . A small wooden shed exploded in extreme slow-motion with a stunt person flying in slow motion away from the explosion . So incredibly over-the-top , I mean a it's a small woodshed ! But yet the movie tries to make it look like a large , wooden , gunpowder filled ship is blowing up . The movie features far too many unneeded slow motion action sequences . I hate it when a movie uses bluntly slow motion as a tool to make the simple action look more spectacular , especially when it really isn't . The movie is not just poorly written , it's also very poorly put together . The movie features some plain bad editing and musical score . I've you have a musical score like this one , you're probably better of not having a musical score at all ! The movie further more also features some awkward humor . The kind that just isn't funny in a movie , though it all probably looked good and hilarious on paper . The movie also has some of the worst and most annoying sound effects I've heard in a long time . Lowest point of the movie its sound effects ; the constant fake put over giggling of a couple of youngster who enter a dragon cave . Incredibly annoying and fake . But no , it's not among the worst movies I've ever seen . The movie sill offers some good clean fun entertainment , even though the execution of it all is far from brilliant . The movie is very predictable and it tries very hard to be better than it really is . It makes the movie unintendedly laughable at times .
A real lackluster .	Even though the movie basically features all of the ingredients needed for me to enjoy a silly B-horror movie , " C . H . U . D . " just didn't do it for me . It has a good concept , at least as good as it can get for some silly B-monster movie trash but the movie does very little interesting with its potentially good concept . The first halve of the movie can be basically seen as a build up . Not much is happening in its first halve but also from the moment one when the cannibalistic humanoid underground dwellers show up the movie doesn't really know to become exciting . The movie still succeeded in gaining a cult-status over the years . Who knows , perhaps if the movie featured some more gore and it would had been a better and also more entertaining one to watch . The movie has a quite ridicules story that also isn't being made exactly believable by its storytelling . Douglas Cheek's directing is lacking and the movie also makes a mistake to feature several very different characters , of which the movie looses its focus on from time to time . The one moment the movie is about the Daniel Stern character , while the other it's about the John Heard and the other its about good old Captain Bosch . The movie really lacks on good clear main hero and instead the movie focuses just a bit on each of them , with as a result that we as the viewers also just don't really ever start to care about any of the characters . The movie also isn't helped by it's bad editing and the movie features a couple of moments that make you wonder what it was what you were just watching there . The movie just doesn't always flow well , especially toward its ending . Perhaps the most amazing thing about this movie is its cast . John Heard and Daniel Stern are both respected actors , though they are mostly active within the comedy genre . It makes it all the more weird to see them both in a movie such as this one . The movie also features John Goodman in one of his earliest movie roles . It's just an 15 seconds part though but it was fun to see how his career started of for him . Playing a fat cop who gets eaten in a diner by cannibalistic humanoid underground dwellers of course always looks nice on your résumé . Amazingly enough the movie in 1989 even got a sequel , though I doubt that this was because of the big box-office successes of this movie . It did made a profit but with a $ 1 , 250 , 000 this of course isn't very hard to achieve . Its budget really shows on screen although I must say that the cannibalistic humanoid underground dwellers are not bad looking . I just wished they were in more sequences and could have added some more tension and horror to the movie . It has some redeeming qualities but overall it remains nothing more than a bad , silly , ' 80's B-monster flick .
Well , at least it's the director's name that is still more horrible than the overall movie .	Seriously , Schumacker Halpern Overdrive ? Now , that's not a name is it ? OK , so the movie is not as horrible as you would perhaps expect and the movie definitely has its entertainment value but it's also a quite bad , standard , low budget , cheap looking , B-horror movie . The movie makes a couple of fatal mistakes . Such as the fact that the identity and motive of the killer are given away too fast . This of course completely ruins this movie its tension and mysterious elements . But obviously the film-makers aim was more towards its comedy and other less serious aspects . In a way the movie also does entertaining especially with its comedy and some of its characters but its simplicity and amateur like style of the movie prevent this from being a real good watchable one . Of course the movie is also very predictable . You just know who is going to die and when . It's one of those real typical genre movies , that recently seem to have become popular again . Even though the movie is only 85 minutes short , the movie still feels way too long and the movie becomes real tiresome to watch after a while , since it basically is constantly more of the same all the time , also since basically the entire movie is set at one locations , probably for budgeting reasons . Everybody seems to can make good gore these days but very little directors know how to handle - and make it work out effectively in a movie . Yes , this movie has some good looking gore but it just never knows to shock or gross you out , due to the overall amateur like style of film-making and just plain overall atmosphere of the movie . All of the actors in this movie never seem to have starred in anything else before but it needs to be said that for a genre movie such as this one . Too bad that Bay Bruner can't act though . too bad since she plays one of the most importantly crucial characters of the movie . It kind of ruins some of the movie its sequences and therefor also negatively effects the movie as a whole . Not exactly anything too recommendable .
You know something is very wrong when the highlight of the movie is a Ben Affleck cameo .	This was a quite annoying and pointless little movie to watch . I liked the cast and director , so I decided to give this movie a shot but it ended up being an huge deception . The movie and its storytelling was totally uninteresting . It's filled with a whole bunch of characters , that just don't amuse . I'm sorry but a couple of moronic characters who just stare and never have a decent conversation with each other is just not my idea of entertainment . It's obvious that the movie has an overall message about family values in it but the way of storytelling , characters and dialog make sure that the message just doesn't come over . The message gets muddled in into the too thick style of film-making . Billy Bob Thornton tries to put a lot into the movie and tells the story subtle , in a Wes Anderson kind of way but none of it really works out . The movie instead is a boring one about nothing . It makes the movie extremely redundant . Somewhere in its mess there still is a story about a family coming together again when the uncle gets accused of attempted murder . However the story gets abandoned often and totally forgotten time after time , until the moment when the movie suddenly gets back on track with its main plot line . It really doesn't make this the best constructed - or flowing movies . The dialogs and sequences seems to be endless , because there isn't really anything happening in it . It gets highly annoying after a while and makes the movie very tiresome to watch . What a waste of a fine cast . Billy Bob Thornton plays a typical Southern Billy Bob Thornton kind of character . Laura is pretty annoying as his wife and the rest of the characters are cast because of their looks and not for their acting skills , which I must say works out pretty well for the movie . Although , the characters in the movie are supposed to be family but not no one of them look like each other . It also does make the movie confusing at times . Jim Varney plays his final film-role in this movie . His role is entertaining , though short . Same can be said about Walton Goggins . Ben Affleck and Jamie Lee Curtis as two married lawyers are also pretty entertaining . A boring and sometimes even annoying awkward little gem . I regret I've ever watched this movie .
Lets just hope that " The Wolf Man " will be a better movie .	All I can say after watching this movie is that I hope that " The Wolf Man " - remake by Joe Johnston , starring Benicio Del Toro and Anthony Hopkins will be a better werewolf movie than this movie was . It should be , since it has being written by Andrew Kevin Walker . What this movie once more proofs is what an incredible one day-fly writer Andrew Kevin Walker was . After his " Scream " script he hasn't delivered a decent story ever since . This movie is also filled with real bad dialog and some real standard formulaic elements but above all also a story in which too little is ever happening . This is a werewolf movie for Pete-sake but the movie actually features very little action or excitement in it . Instead the movie chooses to focus on some way less interesting plot-lines and characters you just don't care about . For too long and too many times throughout the movie , too little interesting is happening . The movie is filled with some stupid false-scare effects . The way of camera-position and editing and build-up already always give away a false-scare is imminent . You don't have to have seen many horror movies to know that . It's done so obvious and incredibly predictable . No , iconic horror director Wes Craven really shows poor form with this movie . A problem of the movie also really lays with its incredible standards camera-position and poor formulaic style of editing . You can hardly call this a very creative or original movie . The actors also really don't seem to know how to handle the movie its poor dialog and just plain bad and silly situations . You also know something is seriously wrong with a movie when it has Mya on its cast list . The special effects are also really below for a big-budget modern 2005 horror movie . The movie features some good looking special makeup effects from artist Rick Baker but it doesn't uses this enough throughout the entire movie , which seemed like a real missed opportunity . I mean when you have Rick Baker working on your movie , USE HIM ! Perhaps the movie would had been a better one if it didn't took itself as serious as it did . If it was done more in the style of " An American Werewolf in London " and " An American Werewolf in Paris " it would at least had been a more entertaining movie to watch .
Oh my , that was silly !	The carry on movies just aren't know for being subtle and are filled with sexist and sexual orientated jokes . The fact that it's a ' 60's movie and all of the men are ugly 40-50-60 year old , who are chasing young beautiful women in their 20's or early 30's makes the jokes and movie as a whole even more dirtier . These sort of movies were quite popular in the 60's and 70's and there are quite some British movies such as this one . No way a movie such as this one could had been made in the United States at the same time . As a matter of fact you still can't really make a movie such as this one and get away with it . I sort of like this boldness and totally political incorrectness . It's so wrong that it actually becomes funny . " Carry on Camping " is of course a movie with loads of hits and misses . It also is often so bad and cheaply made that the movie becomes funny because of its amateurism and simplicity . A real campy comedy ! It has an incredible disjointed story-line , that features loads of characters , who don't really share any connectivity , aside from the fact that they are on the same camping . It sort of disappointing when looking at the story-lines they came up with . I am convinced even I myself could had come up with better and more funny ones and so could you have ! I mean , the movie focuses on the dreadful thing called camping . This concept screams for more and better thought off jokes , no matter how stereotypical they all would had been . It's quite disgusting to see these ugly over 50 year old ( Sid James was 56 but looked 66 and Charles Hawtrey was 55 chasing these well formed young girls that are in the prime of their life . And the girls are all more than happy to let all these guys get in their tents and take their clothes off at every possible occasion . It's so wrong to watch ! But maybe also very funny because of that . So , this really isn't a great or greatly made movie . Nevertheless I still always enjoy watching these sort of ' carry on ' type of movies because of its very amateurism and silliness-factor . Long life political incorrect movies !
Hard to say anything about this .	Well , how do you even rate a movie such as this one ? Does it even have cinematic value really ? It's a movie that tries to get as close to being a snuff movie as possible . Basically the entire movie is purely a bunch of guys torturing a young girl . Not very appealing and on top of that also not that realistic really . It's obvious that the movie tried to be as realistic and shocking as possible . However the movie is just all too fake for that to work out as intended . The slapping and stumping is all soft and fake looking , as well as sounding . They are often just kicking into the floor , rather than into the girl , obviously . Also the way the girl responds to all the torments is pretty tame . I mean if this was real , surely she would had screamed it out . There is more moaning than screaming in this one though . The movie is obviously low budget and it's a valor attempt at trying to achieve something shocking and realistic as well as original and provoking , with very limited resources . Don't really think this movie made much impact though at the time it got released , though it must had done something well , since a total of six sequels got released after this one . Fans of shock and gore will most likely be disappointed by this movie , though there are still some fetish people out there who will get a kick out of this movie .
Some good moments but has an incredibly bad script .	It's OK to laugh at these sort of ' simple , stupid ' , comedies every now and then , even if it has Leslie Nielsen in it . This movie has some great of these ' simple , stupid ' laughs in it but the story really restrains this movie from being a true good or recommendable one . The story is so bad that the movie becomes real painful to watch in parts ! At times you really don't know what is really happening on screen or why , just because it doesn't make sense . It really lacked a real clear and good main plot-line . The movie also tries to spoof way too many movies , just for the sake of spoofing . Most of the time these spoofing moments really don't fit within the movie and seem to be put in completely randomly . It was as if the director was making a sport out of it how many movies he could spoof within one movie . It's of course also a very easy thing to spoof the spy-genre . In that regard this movie has all the jokes in it you would most likely expect . Of course most comical moments and dialog are very lame . But often they are so lame and stupid that you can't help but laugh at them . So no matter how bad this movie actually is , it's still a movie that can and most likely will make you laugh , with also some cameo's from people such as non other then Ray Charles and Hulk Hogan .
Disappointingly bad .	OK I didn't expected this movie to be an action-masterpiece , just a little fun entertaining movie to kill some time with , a typical movie if you know what I mean but the movie was just disappointingly bad . The first 50 minutes just feel pointless and the story doesn't seem to go anywhere . Reason why the first 50 minutes don't really work out is because of the characters that are simply not interesting enough . At about 1 hour and 10 minutes in the movie the movie finally gets a bit interesting but than comes the final which is only just mainly disappointing again , also thanks due to some very poor editing . The editing in general was just mainly poor in this movie and so was the cinematography . The lighting was nice and so was the atmosphere but the movements and camera angles were totally wrong . Nothing in the movie really works out as it was supposed to , the story , the cinematography , the music ( obviously the movie tries to create a realistic atmosphere , which makes the ' hip ' musical score by Elliot Goldenthal a weird and unfitting choice . ) , the acting , the characters . . . nothing really works out an 100 % . And what was with Olivier Martinez his accent ? Oh boy , that was irritating . And I had no idea that getting a knife through airport customs was so easy , especially after . I don't think director Clark Johnson is a person we will hear an awful lot about in the future . Only good thing is the nice atmosphere of the movie that has Los Angeles written all over it . Also some of the action is nice but the poor editing doesn't really make it spectacular or memorable . Even action movie fans will be disappointed with it .
Not a very well made movie .	The movie has some messy storytelling and most of the elements in the movie don't really work out . This movie certainly isn't a terribly interesting to watch . It's a bit of a psychological thriller but it isn't scary , tense or compelling enough to call it a good one . It has a good concept but the end result is pretty disappointing . Main reason why the movie is a bit of a failed one is because of the weak storytelling . Most of the elements in the movie feel very muddled , especially the ending and at times it takes ages before something really interesting to happen in the movie . It isn't exactly a dull movie though , it's more like an uninteresting one , even though the story itself really isn't a bad one . The characters are portrayed nicely in the story but to be frank , they were to boring and distant to feel for . Patricia Neal , who also had a stroke in real life , prior to this movie , is a good leading lady and also good was Nicholas Clay in his very first movie appearance . He does provide the movie with some good moments but it all simply is not enough to make the movie interesting and recommendable enough . From a movie with Patricia Neal , Roald Dahl and Bernard Herrmann involved , some more fireworks was to be expected .
Messy plot less movie .	Too be honest , this was a horrible movie to watch . It was annoying since this is one of those movies that clearly lacks a purpose and you just don't really known what it is you're watching . Luckilly the movie does get slightly better toward its end , so I'm more or less glad I still finished watching it , since I almost switched it off after its first 15 minutes , something I normally never ever do . I still don't know if the movie is trying to be a comedy or a serious movie with comical moments in it . Eitherway , it doesn't really work out effectively . Perhaps it's because of the very underwritten script . It doesn't has some good funny moments written in it and it mostly relies on the stereotyped characters being funny , which they just aren't however . As a realistic and honest straight-forward drama the movie works out better but the atmosphere is just way too light for it to truly ever work out effectively . So here we have one messy movie that just ever really work out either way . The movie is going nowhere really at its start but if you'll survive the first hour relax , the movie will get slightly better after that point . But it's just too little too late , I'm afraid .
Really no bad story or premise but what a bad execution of it all !	The movie has a rather good typical genre revenge-story but the story gets almost completely ruined by the movie its poor directing and annoyingly bad dialog . It's not that the movie has a bad story but it's still a poorly written . And the things they say ! Oh man , the spend 3 lines on things they could say with just 5 words . Some of the dialog is ridicules and at times completely redundant for the movie . Really some of the worst dialog writing I have seen in a long time . How did those actors ever agreed to say all those lines ? Unfortunately the movie also feels the need to put in a female character and love-story . I mean no offense but women in westerns have just never quite worked out . Even in the best westerns , the women still felt out of place and did not worked out . I understand that it's PC and good for marketing reasons but some genres are just not created to have female characters in it . But on top of that the love-story in this movie feels rather forced and out of place and is just not quite believable , since Pilar seems like a complete bore and shallow character , that no tough gunfighter would ever fall for . It also seems silly that the biggest spoiler and surprise of the movie is also in the movie it's title . What's up with that ! ? The musical score for the movie was unexpectedly great . I liked it surprising much ! One of the very few highlights of the movie . The directing was very poor and it ruined some of the potentially good moments of the movie . It also made some of the action seemed bad and ridicules . It's the sort of clumsy action you would normally expect to see in a ' 30's movie or a " The A-Team " type of series . Characters come and go in the movie and evil and good guys keep switching constantly . The main character isn't even introduced until 10 minutes into the movie . The main villains are disappointing and underused . Never fully showed in the movie why they are being considered such legendary and bad villainous characters in the West . Also non of the actors are really any great ones but then again , they also aren't really helped by the dialog in the movie . Still some of the action makes the movie worthwhile to watch , at least for the genre fans . Some action sequences are surprisingly big ( seemed to me they'd watched " The Magnificent Seven " before making this movie ? ) and even though some of the action seems to constantly repeat itself , it's still great to watch !
Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde , told from a different point of view .	In this movie director Stephen Frears tries to tell the Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde from a different view point ; that of housemaid Mary Reilly . He does this in a subtle , slow and dark style . That all combined makes " Mary Reilly " an uneasy and unpleasant movie to watch that's all style over substance . The movie lacks scares , tension , mystery and an overall good pace . It's hard to say what is the biggest problem and failure of the movie , since there are so many little things present in this movie , which all combined makes this movie a failed attempt . One of them is the story itself . It not only is told slow and perhaps even boring , it also features lots of unneeded sequences with uninteresting characters involved . Another major problem I had with this movie was its style . This movie is darker than dark . I don't know , for some reason a movie that is entirely dark just doesn't ever work out as a scary or mysterious one . Its dark style rather makes this movie an uneasy one to watch . Granted that the cinematography is good and so are the sets and costumes but this is mostly ruined and pushed to the back by the overly dark and depressing atmosphere of the movie . Everything also isn't told in the most arousing pace , which causes this movie at times to be a drag and far from interesting one . Normally Julia Roberts obviously is one fine actress but not in this movie . She feels out of place and basically all she does in this movie is look scared with her big eyes . Not her finest moment . I also expected more from John Malkovich . I mean , he seems like the perfect guy to portray the evil and scary Mr . Hyde but he gets very little interesting to do in this movie . Lots is implied in this movie but very little is actually shown on screen . The movie also features Michael Gambon , Glenn Close , Michael Sheen and Ciarán Hinds in an early role . They are fine but they basically add very little to the story in their little roles , which seems to have been written just for them , so they could be in this movie . I also don't like how they changed the Mr . Poole the Butler character . Poole is a loyal , friendly , hard working man but in this movie he is more portrayed as a villainous tough boss , who you don't want to mess with . Also perhaps the most laughable and unbelievable element of the movie is that the Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde character look obviously alike . Both are of course played by John Malkovich but no make-up is applied and he doesn't alter his voice . Some voice , same hands , same face , same eyes but yet nobody recognizes Mr . Hyde as Dr . Jekyll . Basically only difference between the two characters is that Mr . Hyde has long hair and Dr . Jekyll is unshaven . Also their personalities are actually much alike . I really didn't see so much difference between the ' good ' Dr . Jekyll and the ' evil ' Mr . Hyde . The ending , although it's good looking and effective , is a letdown that doesn't feel like a fitting ending at all . This movie is definitely not an easy one to watch . If you're not familiar at all with the Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde story , written by Robert Louis Stevenson , than this movie is completely unwatchable and not understandable to watch for you , as well as an even bigger bore than it already is at certain moments . A failure but a beautiful one , that still is not worth seeing .
Not THAT bad , just very pointless .	This movie could had been an interesting character study and could had given some insight on its subject but real problem with this movie is that it doesn't have any of this in it . It doesn't give any insight - , or solutions to the problem . It's just the portrayal of ' old ' male sex addict and the problems this is creating for his every day normal life and family . Why would you want to watch this ? It's all so totally pointless and meaningless . It also really doesn't help that the main character is some wrinkly 50 + year old male . You'll have a hard time identifying yourself - and sympathize for him . He just seems like a dirty old playboy , who is an a constant hunt for woman and sex . He has all kinds of sexual intercourse's about 3 times a day with different woman and not just only with prostitutes . It also doesn't have a bad visual style , though it all feels a bit forced . But nevertheless it's all better looking than most other direct-to-video productions . Who knows , if the film-makers had been given better material to work with , the movie would had deserved a better faith . The story really gets ridicules at times . There are really some pointless plot-lines that are often more laughable than they were obviously supposed to be . I'm talking about for instance the whole Ordell plot-line . Things get worse once they movie starts heading toward the ending . Also the whole way the story is being told , cutting back and forth between the events that happened and the main character's sessions with his psychiatrist feels a bit cheap and simple . But as far as bad movies are concerned , this just isn't one of them . It's not really any better or worse than any other random straight-to-video flick , with similar concepts . Still seems weird and quite amazing that they managed to cast Nastassja Kinski and Ed Begley Jr . in such a simple small insignificant production as this one is . Guess they were really desperate for work and money .
The blonds versus the brunettes .	The movie doesn't have the most interesting or well paced stories about rivaling tribes and a story in which all the persons with brown hair are seen as the superiors and the only purpose for persons with blonde hair is to be sacrificed to the sun . Also funny thing is that all the brunettes in this movie look like they have blond hair in real life and vice versa . Oh and there are also dinosaurs walking around somewhere in it . The whole movie seems quite ridicules due to its poorly developed story . It doesn't ever make the movie interesting or even entertaining enough to watch , also due to its poor pace . The movie is entirely spoken in a made up caveman language . It doesn't always make the movie easy to follow and their entire vocabulary seems to consist out of only 5 words ( though apparently it are 27-words ) , so the same words are spoken over and over again , which becomes a bit irritating after a short while . The dinosaurs provide the movie with its much needed action-sequences but otherwise they serve no purpose at all for the story . It's the reason why this movie is basically only watchable for the dinosaur-lovers . Occensionaly they pop out of nowhere and give some of the cavemen - and women a hard time . The sequences are well made however and the movie features some good stop-motion effects ( Oscar nomination ) , although of course by todays standards it's all terribly fake looking . I also love how they always made the herbivores seem like the big and dangerous monsters of the prehistorical time . Other than that the movie is quite poor looking , with dull settings and sets and ridicules costumes . Men and women are all running around halve naked , with a perfect skin and teeth . Also the characters aren't much interesting . All the good characters in the movie are basically good and all of the bad characters are extremely evil . It makes the movie a very simplistic one that offers very little real originality , creativity or other interesting elements .
A comedy that forgot about its comedy .	This is a movie that is made in complete comedy style and is also being directed by comedy-man Mel Smith . Yet this is a movie that just has no laughs in it and it's as if they even did tried hard enough . It's of course a movie with a very simple thin story , that also on top of that is an highly unlikely one , even for comedy standards . The way the entire movie progresses is also rather predictable , which makes this a very little uninteresting and unoriginal movie to watch . It's of course not a movie to take serious in the first place but in that case the movie should had had some more comedy and entertainment in it , which it just simply hadn't . Instead it also tries to be more moralistic , which often is an annoying approach for any comedy . Mel Smith obviously has some comical talent but he yet still needs to proof himself as a good comedy movie director . Problem is also its two main characters . They are being presented in this movie as strong , smart , independent women but yet they do all these stupid things . So something is wrong here with the approach . And no offense but lets be honest here for a moment , can you at least name 5 good movies that has 2 female characters as the movie's main leads ? It's just something that rarely ever works out successfully . especially when you have a movie with a non-serious approach . Females in comical roles also always tend to overact more than males in the same type of roles . This often works as sort of annoying , even though this movie is still bearable with its acting , thanks to the professional acting by Minnie Driver and Mary McCormack , who unfortunately just weren't given a better script to work with . Also the supporting cast is a good one with actors such as Kevin McNally , Mark Williams and Michael Gambon in it . They still also give the movie some extra flair but you can debate about it if most of their roles were actually really necessary for the movie at all . It's a movie that has the right style , uses the right actors but yet just doesn't work out as a good and successful enough comedy . The movie seriously lacks laughs , which is especially disappointing for a British comedy and could had used a more clever and originally written script and possibly a different director at the helm .
Criminal vs . criminal . . . who cares !	This is a pretty boring jail-boxing-flick ( yah , what a word ! ) that features very little story , uninteresting main characters and a concept that focuses purely on the boxing aspects and forgets basically everything else . There is one big problem with this movie ; it's two main characters played by Wesley Snipes and Ving Rhames . Both are boxing professionals who got convicted , one for murder , the other for rape . Seems like the Snipes character got somewhat based on Rubin ' Hurricane ' Carter and the Rhames character obviously on Mike Tyson . But fact is that both are tough criminals , who obviously are no choir boys . They are not really portrayed in a likable way and you just don't know who to cheer for . My guess is that it was the movie its intension to make the Snipes character the more likable one but he's portrayed in an incredible unsympathetic way and quite honestly I would always rather hang out with Ving Rhames than with Wesley Snipes , no matter what crime he committed . The movie features of course other characters , of which some got portrayed by some good and well known actors ( Peter Falk , Michael Rooker ) but you just don't ever care about any of them and most also feel rather pointless within the movie . So yes , the main characters are a problem but so is its story . Basically all the story does is build up to its inevitable end fight . It's makes the movie predictable but boring as well , since basically very little else is ever happening in the movie . Walter Hill was once a new promising action movie director but with movies like this he shows that he sort of has lost his touch . It's a very clichéd made movie that features all of the ingredients you would expect from it . The already bad and uninteresting story gets also told in a bad and uninteresting way within the movie . He tries to give the movie some style and pace but it really doesn't work out too well . Normally I'm still quite fond of boxing movies but this movie just has very little redeeming qualities . The movie just doesn't offer anything new or exciting to watch . The boxing matches within the movie aren't exactly anything adrenaline pumping , also because you already know in advance how they are all going to end . Not really recommendable . . .
Zidane was a more than great football player , but really not a good documentary subject . At least not for one with an approach such as this one .	Just like every football fan , I have to say that Zinédine Zidane really was one of the best players of this and the last century . I would often watch a France game , purely because of Zidane and I wanted to see him do his magic . Even if the game wasn't very good and the team wasn't playing very well , Zidane would always show something special and amazing . His skill and touch was always amazing . Whenever he had the ball if was something special and you just knew something great could happen at any given moment . He doesn't look and move like a very technical player but he really was one of the most technical midfielder of the last few decades . He had a great and impressive but also very successful career , especially with his national team . Every world cup or European cup he participated in , he was one of the best players of the tournament and he won both the World - and European Cup with his country France . He played an important role in his country victories and eventual win of the tournaments , with his two goals in the 1998 finale against Brazil of course as his most memorable achievement . No way that a dumb head-but against Marco Materazzi in the 110th minute of the 2006 World Cup final against Italy , which also was his last game out of his career , should overshadow this great sportsman's career . But as much as I adore Zidane as a player he really isn't a charismatic person or player to watch . His face doesn't ever show any emotions , which sorts of makes you wonder why the film-makers he was such a good subject for this cinematic movie-making approach . After about 30 minutes you've already had it with watching this movie . Most of the time he doesn't even run , he just walks and stands because obviously he isn't on the ball all of the time . After a while the approach of the movie becomes a real bore to watch . It doesn't show anything of Zidane as a person and it also most certainly doesn't show anything of Zidane's qualities as a football player . Therefor what's the point of this ' documentary ' ? This movie only serves an artistic purpose . Although this also doesn't completely work out due to the subject Zidane . So it's a sort of vicious circle . The approach of the documentary doesn't really work out due to Zidane and Zidane isn't presented in his best or most insightful way due to the approach of the documentary . It doesn't do much credit to the exceptional great player Zidane was . On top of the , the approach from this documentary isn't even original . It was used before by German filmmaker Hellmuth Costard , for his documentary " Fußball wie noch nie " , following Manchester United player George Best in real time , during a complete football match . What was highly annoying to me was that most of the sounds were obviously put at a later stage underneath the movie . Some , if not all , sounds were obviously fabricated and recorded in a studio , even Zidane's own breathing and on pitch talking . Unless you believe he was really wearing a microphone during the match . . . The chanting the running on the grass , the kicking of the ball , all off these sounds sound so completely fabricated . It's like listening to a radio play at times . Some of the trivial facts presented in this movie are really ridicules and don't serve a point at all , also not in the least because they have absolutely nothing to do with the subject of the movie . If you want to see the qualities of a player you don't point several camera's just on his face . He should see a wider picture to get a clear view and understanding of his positioning , his passing , his control , his overview , knowing exactly the positions of your teammates and opponents , knowing when to give the right ball . After all , football is still a team sport , no matter how great as an individual you are . The game they follow him also isn't much special . It's just an average Primera Division game of Zidane's Real Madrid against Villareal , in which Zidane even gets send off with a red card before the end of the match . Also sorts of makes you wonder if the makers regret picking this one game to follow him . Has some artistic value but overall really doesn't do enough credit to Zizou .
Typical Pyun science-fiction B-movie .	Albert Pyun is really underrated . This guy deserves more attention on how bad he is . Bad as a director and writer , a couple of years ago I already declared him the Ed Wood of modern movie making . Sad thing about directors like Pyun is that they have no talent for movie-making but keep on making movies nevertheless . Reason why I watched this movie in the first place is because Rutger Hauer is in it . It's too bad that he is given awful material to work with , the script has some terrible dialogs . Still I can appreciate a big fat B-movie every now and then . B-movie's are always ridicules and awfully looking with terrible acting . In a way its always very relaxing to watch after a hard week of work . This movie is no exception . Fans of the genre and I know that there are a lot of those , will enjoy this movie big time . It has all the typical modern science-fiction B-movie elements in it . The special effects are laughable bad at times , especially for the character Head . The sound effects also made me laugh . Remember that Cain droid from " Robocop 2 " ? Remember that sound that he made when he walked ? It's a kind of scary sound for Cain but a laughable sound when it is used for just normal human looking droid characters in this movie . It's really not fitting . Don't stop making crap Pyun ! In a way I always enjoy it . . . . I kind of like the cover though .
A movie with zero-story .	To be honest " Kangaroo Jack " isn't an horrible movie . It has some solid main characters and some good comical moments and situations but it is all ruined by the story that is totally without a point and lame . Who ever green-lighted this project ? Even though he plays obviously a quite prominent role in the movie , the character of Kangaroo Jack feels totally out of place and not relevant for the movie . He feels totally pointless and makes the movie a very lame one to watch at times with some easy and childish humor and situations in it . Without his character this movie probably would had been a better one and certainly a more watchable one . The actors Jerry O'Connell and Anthony Anderson really don't form a bad comical duo but they are truly given awful material to work with at times . The movie feels like a waste of the two main characters . And what ever was Christopher Walken thinking ? I still can't believe that he agreed to play a part in this movie . It's like having Marlon Brando in " Plan 9 From Outer Space " . Totally out of place and below his professional level . The movie is good looking and it's obvious that director David McNally still has a notable talent for movie making . He still adds feeling and style to the movie even though it can't all conceal the movie its lame and pointless story . It's still good for a few laughs but it overall has more minuses than pluses in it , so I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone unless you're really bored .
Didn't work for me .	" Undead " had a good and promising beginning . However , as the movie more and more progressed everything began to drag on and the movie even began to irritate me at points . The story seemed to go nowhere and all of the character were way too shallow to make this movie an interesting or good one . The movie is a real gore-fest though . All the gore makes it obvious that this is a Independent-movie that you're watching . To be honest , the gore was the only element of the movie that I really liked and worked out fine . The make-up effects were fantastic . Plain and simple , the movie was too amateur-like at times for me . Obviously the Spierig brothers still have lots of learning to do about film-making . Not everything in the movie always flows and the storytelling is below par at times , probably also due to the poor and simple editing . Also the special effects were far from convincing . Even worse was the horrible musical score . It's the sort of score , a 12-year old come make these days , on his or hers IMac . It was absolutely horrendous at times and it worked extremely irritating . Also the actors were obviously not the most talented in the business . But it were also the characters that they portrayed who were very lacking . Every character in the movie is extremely shallow and the movie lacked a real good main , likable character . The heroic character of the movie looked very much like Torgo from " ' Manos ' : The Hands of Fate " . Not a great look for a hero , even if it was intentional and on top of that the actor that portrayed him did it way too over-the-top . I'm not to sure how to regard this movie . The movie has a totally serious atmosphere and story most of the times but still it has many comedy-elements in it but yet for a comedy it isn't smart and certainly not witty enough . Because of this , the balance between the comedy-horror - and science-fiction elements ended up being extremely flawed . At times you don't know whether to laugh or be terrified . the movie-makers obviously also couldn't make up their mind if they wanted to create a totally serious movie , or a comical one . It all doesn't always make " Undead " a pleasant and easy movie to watch . Nice try , better luck next time .
A look into the world of bi-sexual strippers and showgirls . . . who cares ? !	This movie makes a totally pointless impression . The story and characters are totally uninteresting and the movie is way too long . None of Verhoeven's style and excellence are present in this movie , so not even fans of him will get a kick out of this . This is a movie with basically zero story . The movie is not really heading anywhere and the characters certainly don't make this movie more interesting either . Nomi Malone is a pretty weird character if you ask me . It is unclear at times what she exactly wants and she keeps changing her mind time after time which gets a little annoying after a while . A movie were you already don't understand the main character is per definition already a bad one of course . It really is the pointless story and the not understandable characters that ruin this movie . The movie takes itself way too serious . I have the feeling that the movie would had been better had it more humor and satire in it . But none of Verhoeven's typical humor is present in the movie . The only typical Verhoeven aspect present in this movie is nudity but besides that , there is no other way that you can tell that Verhoeven directed this movie . The nudity might be about the only thing this movie deserves credit for . I mean , this is finally a movie that isn't afraid to show total nudity and the main actresses aren't afraid to take of all their clothes and do some explicit scenes . It isn't really that bad as a movie , I mean it is still a movie that had been made with lots of flair and style but the totally pointless , uninteresting and ridicules story makes this a movie that you probably would be better of not watching .
Mickey Rooney and film-noir . . . yeah right !	This movie is a rather odd mix of musical , romance , drama and crime with a sniff of film-noir to it . It's basically one messy heap of different genres , of which none really works out like it was supposed to . This movie is an attempt by Mickey Rooney to be taken more serious as an actor . He's a former child-star who always used to star in in happy comical - and musical productions at the start of his career . In this movie he picks a different approach ( although the musical aspects are still present in the movie ) . But his role is actually quite laughable within the movie . I mean Mickey Rooney as a tough player ? He's an extremely small boyish looking man . He actually was in his 30's already at the time of this movie but he seriously looks more like a 16 year old . Hearing him say babe to women and hearing talking tough to gangsters who are about 3 times bigger than he is just doesn't look and feel right . He simply isn't convincing in his role . Because the movie mixes so many different genres , the story also really feels as a messy one . Somewhere in it there is a crime plot and somewhere in it is a romantic plot-line and one about living your dream but none of it works out really due to the messy approach and handling of it all . It just isn't an interesting or compelling movie to watch . László Kardos is also a director who has done only 10 movies in his lifetime , despite the fact that his career span from 1935 till 1957 . He must have been a struggling director who had a hard time getting work into the industry and instead once in a while was given a lesser script to work with . His movies are all unknown ones and normally also not of too high quality . Let's also not forget that this is a ' 50's movie but yet it more feels like a ' 40's one or perhaps even as one from the ' 30's . This is of course mostly due to the fact that this movie got shot in black & white . Generally speaking black & white movies from the ' 50's often have a cheap looking feeling over it and this movie forms no exception . It's a rather strange sight seeing Mickey Rooney and Louis Armstrong and his band as themselves performing together in a sequence . It wasn't the only movie Armstrong appeared in though and he would often pop up in these type of movies , often simply as himself . I guess jazz lovers can still somewhat enjoy watching this movie due to its music , since there is quite an amount of it present in this movie . The movie actually received an Oscar nomination for best original song . An awkward little movie and outing from Mickey Rooney .
Not interesting .	The best way to describe this movie in my opinion is to say it's not that interesting . I honestly don't understand why some movies ever get made . Seriously now , how can you as a studio ever green-light such a project after you've read the very generic script , filled with all the clichés and the usual suspects . It offers no surprises at all and it's a totally predictable movie from start till finish . It's a self indulged project , that is about living the American dream by joining a prestigious naval academy . But why our main character exactly wants to be in it so badly just never really becomes clear to me . Becomes he promised his mother before her death ? Now seriously , that seems like a totally crazy thing to promise to your mother now doesn't it ? A lot of things just don't become clear to me in this movie . For instance also why exactly the two main characters , played by James Franco and Tyrese Gibson hate each other so badly from the start on . It seems to have no grounds . And why is he liked Lt . Burton so much ? What makes his character so special ? To me he just seems like one of the boys and gals of the naval academy and he has no particular special skills or ideals . Also his boxing skills aren't that impressive . For in essence " Annapolis " strangely enough is also a boxing movie . Not that the boxing serves a significant enough purpose for the movie though really , since the movie focuses on so many ( too many ) more elements around it . Also the way the boxing sequences are shot is just completely terrible . It shows it as a sport in which you have to punch as hard as you can without stopping . Seriously , no tactics are involved and I actually wonder if the movie had a boxing coach or professional present during the making of the movie , since it seems to me that the cast and crew had no idea what there were doing when it came down to its boxing sequences . It's a movie that gives boxing a sort of a bad name . It presents the sport as one in which two crazed individuals aggressively , constantly take a swing at another . But the movie concentrates on much more elements . It's a dramatic , romantic , sports movie . It's however also very predictable in every way , which ensures the the drama , the romance as well as the sport just doesn't work out in this movie . All of the characters are so incredibly standard and overdone . All of the characters you would expect in a movie about a tough naval academy are present here . But also the script just doesn't ever offer any surprises . And yes , of course the movie also manages to throw in a love-story , which just wasn't necessary and it doesn't exactly make this movie any better or more likable to watch . In the end I just don't really know what this movie is about . Is it about the main character trying to fix the relationship between him and his father ? Or is it perhaps about achieving something in life by devoting yourself to the service of your country ? Is it about fighting for your chance in life ? Is it about finding and getting with the love of your life ? I'm really not sure what the movie tried to achieve and it tries to throw in a bit of everything , however with as a result that basically nothing really works out for the movie as it should had . James Franco is a good actor but he just ain't quite ready yet the play the main character in any movie . He is always at his best playing a secondary character , that stays more on the background but has as well also has just a couple of big scene's for himself . The movie is filled with some other well known actors but none of their characters really work out , which is obviously not mainly just due to their acting performances but mostly more to it's formulaic script and probably also directing . It's a funny thing that the unknown Vicellous Reon Shannon , who yet plays a very formulaic role ( the fat guy with twinkies under his bed ) , is the only actor who lets his character work out and lets him become one you can actually sympathize for . No sir , I don't like it . The movie just isn't interesting to watch . It's clichéd and just overall doesn't seem to have a point .
Bad show but nice winners !	Seriously the only good thing about this year ceremony were the winners . Although the ceremony itself was pretty short it still was somewhat boring . I think it's seriously time to look for a new director and producers for the show , who can come up with something REALLY new . It's pretty obvious that they tried to make the show more ' hip ' and appealing for a younger audience this year by letting Beyonce perform and letting P . Diddy and Prince present a category . Also letting Chris Rock be the presenter was an attempt to re-new the ceremony and make it more appealing . None of it really worked out . Sure , Chris Rock is a funny guy but he wasn't really a good presenter . I really merely saw him as a guy who just talked every now and then in between of the different categories . His presence wasn't really as ' big ' as for instance Billy Crystal's . Also the handing out of the awards was pretty dumb at times . Not letting everybody come to the stage but also handing out some of the awards in the middle of the theater was plain weird . Still , I can't remember being any more satisfied with the award winners . None of the movies really swept away the awards as the last couple of years always had been the case . So does that mean it had been a good year for movies with lots of competitive contestants ? I don't think so . I think most of the movies will be largely forgotten in 20 years from now , with the exception of " Million Dollar Baby " and " The Passion of the Christ " maybe . Sure I don't agree with every single award that was handed out this year , for instance Caleb Deschanel should had won for best cinematography , not that I don't like Robert Richardson's work , he really did some amazing work for most of Oliver Stone's work but I really feel that Deschanel deserved the award way more . Also I would had liked seeing Jim Miller and Paul Rubell win for best editing and John Debney for best music . But oh well , there is no way the Academy Awards can please everybody of course , I understand that . There will always be people complaining about the winners . It also was funny to see that most of the award presenters were way more nervous than the nominees and winners . Did Prince said any of the nominees names right at once ? And were is Sean Penn's sense of humor ? Al Pacino and Jeremy " I hope they missed " Irons were the best presenters of the night . Overall a very forgettable show but with nice winners .
Confusing mess .	This is one rather odd unusual movie . It mixes several movie elements such as comedy , musical and film-noir . It's however one mix that doesn't really work out and comes across as an odd one . It's also most certainly due to the confusing script that mixes truth and fiction and uses lots of flashback elements that also mixes past with ' present ' . What is this movie really about ? What story does it try to tell ? Exactly what is the point of this entire movie and what does it try to achieve . The movie obviously tries to be an homage to the ' 50's and the ' 50's movie genre but it does so without having much style of its own . The clothes are right , the dialogs are right but the atmosphere really isn't , which is of course the most important element . The musical elements could had helped to let the movie work out better but the movie chooses to use evergreens instead new , specifically for this movie written songs . Also the fact that the actors are obviously play-backing to the real singers is a reason why it just doesn't ever work out in the movie . The movie tries to be stylish and fun but it's perhaps trying to hard , which causes it to work ineffective . This movie gave me the feeling that a different director could had still let this movie work out . The movie obviously doesn't try to be serious but it does this by actually having also very little humor in it . Yeah , you can say that this movie is a black comedy but this movie really isn't the best or most effective example in its genre . Too bad that the movie didn't really worked out , since it had a great and surprising cast . It was Robert Downey Jr's . first big role after his drug addiction . He of course got the role through his good friend Mel Gibson who is a producer of this movie . Downey Jr . does a good job and he once more shows how a great actor he is and how well he is capable of carrying a movie . Mel Gibson himself also plays a surprising role underneath a lot of make-up effects . The movie further more also features Adrien Brody in his first role since his Oscar-winning performance in " The Pianist " . It really wasn't his greatest career choice . Has it's moments but in the end this movie leaves nothing more than a pointless and confusing impression .
Unconvincing , uninteresting , unlikely . . . almost unwatchable .	As much as I love science-fiction movies , as much as I love ' 70's movies and as much as I love movies with silly premises , I just didn't liked this one . The movie started of promising and seemed tense and mysterious . However after the opening , the movie picks about the least interesting and convincing approach and the story got lost in a jungle of weird , uninteresting and highly unlikely moments . The middle just wasn't good and interesting enough to keep my attention . It becomes all too obvious that the movie is an attempt to cash in after the success of " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " . The story shows a bit too many similarities and Proteus obviously of course is the same as HAL 9000 , only less scary and less convincing . The movie tries to be deep and clever with its story but it instead works out shallow and unconvincing due to an unconvincing and uninteresting storyline . In a way you can call this movie a " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " for dummies . The premise of a woman being locked inside of a high-tech filled house and is being held hostage by a supercomputer just isn't the most exciting and convincing story they could had come up with , considering its good and in a way relevant subject , about computers and technique eventually taking over the human-race . It becomes all the more unconvincing when the intentions of the super computer become clear ; he wants to impregnate the woman to create a hybrid child , eventually resulting in the rape of the woman . The movie could had been tense and above all also thought-provoking . It now instead is a silly ' 70's mess , with a silly and uninteresting premise that also barely entertains enough . The middle drags on for way too long , without much interesting or tense happening in it . The buildup and story-flow falls flat and the movie is only still mildly interesting and good to watch in some few sequences , mainly due to its good - and good looking technical sequences . Normally Julie Christie is always great to watch in any movie . She has played in classics such as ; " Doctor Zhivago " , " Fahrenheit 451 " , " Don't Look Now " and the more recent ; " Dragonheart " , " Troy " and " Finding Neverland " . She however was simply awful in this movie to be frank . Her performance was emotionless and unconvincing and she didn't seemed comfortable with her role and the movie its story . A silly , unconvincing , technical good looking movie , which subject deserved a better plot .
Not even the camp-ness is good .	" Red Sonja " is flawed , weak and lacking . Even the camp-ness isn't good . There are only two good things about " Red Sonja " ; The costumes ( even though the Red Sonja costume is ridiculous . It's ironic that a girl who is even afraid to be touched by men , because she was raped , still choose to wear so few little clothes , even when it rains . ) and the music by Ennio Morricone . Still the movie is somewhat watchable but certainly not recommendable . The story is extremely simple and they didn't even bother to make it interesting . The story could have been forgotten if there had been some good action sequences and some humor , both are present but are seriously flawed in many ways . The movie takes itself too serious and tries to impress but fails completely . Brigitte Nielsen is an horrible leading lady . I don't know who's accent is worse ; Hers or Arnie's and on top of that ; She can't act . There is also absolutely no chemistry between the two characters which makes the love story totally unbelievable . Even worse was Sandahl Bergman as the main villain who acts more poorly than a paper bag . Ronald Lacey was somewhat good in his role , but my God he looked horrible , he changed so much since his ( only well known ) role in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . Maybe it had something to do with his illness which claimed his life in 1991 ? And by the way , what was with all those " Raiders of the Lost Ark " actors in this movie ? Next to Ronald Lacey , Pat Roach , Terry Richards and Tutte Lemkow appeared in a role , it seemed like some kind of " Raiders of the Lost Ark " reunion . The only times when the movie gets a bit interesting is during the ( sword ) fights even though some of them are needless and weak . Only really watchable for the fans of the fantasy-genre .
A bit of a drag , even though the movie is just over an hour long .	I'm glad this was the last of the ' 40's Universal Mummy movies . The movies were all of variating qualities and this movie was definitely one of the lesser ones . Problem is that it's a very slow moving movie , in which basically nothing interesting or exciting is ever happening . Perhaps it would had all been better if the mummy had made his entrance earlier on in the movie . Instead now the movie once again spends its first 20 minutes explaining what had all happened in the previous mummy movies , by also once again using archive footage from this time " The Mummy " from 1932 again , to which this movie is the fourth mummy movie following the 1932 mummy story . The movie just never knows to find the right pace and even though the movie is barely over an hour long , it still feels a bit like a drag . It of course also doesn't help that the movie has a rather simplistic and actually very little interesting story . The movie also feels quite disjointed . The first and second half of the movie don't really connect to each other and they seemed like two separate movies on their own . At least Lon Chaney Jr . is still in it . He once more reprises the role of the mummy Kharis , for the third time . Too bad that he has such limited screen time this time . He gets unfortunately very little interesting to do , which is also a big waste of the mummy character itself . The movie is further more filled with dozens of silly actors who are playing around with silly accents . It seemed so totally unnecessary to me that most of the characters had to speak with such an accent and it actually gets quite distracting and annoying at points . The mummy movies that's least worth seeing .
Pretty bad .	From 2002 on Dutch cinema finally got better again . This movie is still part - and a schoolbook example of the bad period of Dutch cinema . The story is needlessly told in flashback style . All of the ' present ' sequences set in France are completely redundant and add nothing to the story , emotions or power . For some reason European filmmakers often find it necessary to tell the story not chronological . I never understood why , or what the appeal of it is . The story self also isn't exactly the greatest . It isn't always clear were the movie is trying to go to and what it tries to tell . The story of a young unexperienced boy falling in love with a wild young girl , who later turns out to be quite psychotic might sound good enough on paper and even shows some parallels to Paul Verhoeven's " Turks fruit " , to which this movie often was compared to before and at the time of its release . However the end result is far from comparable . The story fails to capture the right emotions , which is also due to the unimaginative performances from the actors . The way the story is told also makes the movie far from always interesting or compelling . I lost interest for this movie at about 40 minutes through the movie . At the time this movie was made , both Antonie Kamerling and Angela Schijf were promising rising stars , with great potential and ambitions but both their careers have pretty much dried up by now . Angela Schijf seems to give her family more attention than her career ( that is not a bad thing of course ) , while Antonie Kamerling tried to start a career in Hollywood . He never got any further than playing some small bit parts in 2 Renny Harlin flops . To be honest I'm not surprised . It's not that he is a bad actor and he certainly has got the right looks but his English just isn't good enough , to put it mildly . Just listen to him speaking English in the beginning of this movie and you'll understand what I mean . They are really not bad actors but for some reason it doesn't show in this movie . It's probably also due to the poor dialog . I still kind of liked Beau van Erven Dorens . He's been criticized a lot but his acting seems very natural . He always keeps the characters close to who he self is . It by no means is one of the worst movies ever made but it's not exactly one I would recommend either . Bad and uninteresting storytelling makes this a bad movie .
Not one real good laugh and it focuses too much on one character .	The charm and the success of the previous 3 American Pie movies were its characters . " American Pie : Band Camp " focuses mainly on just one character , Matt Stiffler , the younger brother of Steve Stifler who we all know from the previous 3 American Pie movies . Tad Hilgenbrink really isn't bad as the new Stifmeister and he impersonates his older ' movie brother ' pretty well and convincing but he however isn't given exactly wonderful material to work with . It also is too hard and too much for him to carry this entire movie on his own . The movie could had surely used some better sidekicks and other characters to help and make this movie a better one . " American Pie : Band Camp " lacks some real good memorable moments and well executed jokes . There isn't ever really something hilarious or original happening in this below average straight to video teenage comedy . The story is too simple and it lacks some real depth and credibility . The movie also lacked some real good and fun witty dialog . It's a very flat movie with some simple and not always funny jokes and moments in it . It's fairly good entertainment to watch but it lacks the characters and memorable jokes and moments from the previous 3 American Pie movies .
Begins promising but sleeps in real fast .	Obviously this movie got inspired by the success of recent silly comedies and the ones about sports in particular . The movie has more misses then hits in it with its comedy and even though the movie certainly does has its moments , it's just not really a good or recommendable one to watch . Well , I sort of like this recent silly comedies of this new decade , even though not all are of high quality . They are just so silly that you can't help but laughing . This movie unfortunately is not among the best silly comedies of last recent years . It begins real good and promising but once the main story starts to kick in the movie starts to sleep in and becomes an usual , formulaic , silly , predictable movie , that lacks far too many original or truly hilarious moments . The movie sort of gets better again once Christopher Walken makes his entrance but it's just all not good enough to make this an effective movie . The movie constantly keeps you thinking throughout ; They could had really done a better job with this ! It's concept sounds hilarious on its own right and the movie and main story is a spoof of the Bruce Lee class " Enter the Dragon " . That movie already sort of was a silly movie in its own right but in a good and almost brilliant way . " Balls of Fury " is far from ever being good or brilliant though . Probably still the most hilarious element of the movie is the fact that Christopher Walken is in it . He plays his role of course deliberately from a serious angle which makes the comedy involving his character to work out all the better . His role is sort of too small though , also since he doesn't make his appearance until about halve way through the movie . It was as if he only was available for two weeks and they had to shoot all of his stuff in that time frame . None of the other main actors are really solid enough to fully carry this movie and some actors aren't even at the right place in this comedy . For a good silly sports comedy , watch " Dodgeball : A True Underdog Story " instead .
Well , at least it still has got Lon Chaney Jr . in it .	The beginning of the movie almost entirely consists out of archive footage from the previous Universal Mummy movie , " The Mummy's Hand " , from 1940 . What a cheap way of film-making and it also makes it petty redundant to watch " The Mummy's Hand " , even though it's a far better movie . It makes the actual movie of course also even shorter . The movie already is only a mere 60 minutes short but with the archive footage this movie consists maybe only out of 50 minutes of original new material . It's a pretty dull movie that moves along slowly and in which just not much interesting is ever happening . It isn't until halve way through that something happens in the movie but then it gets pretty slow and dull again soon after , until the ending . So it's mainly due to the simple and dull story that this movie is by no means a great one , especially when compared to the other previous Universal mummy movies . The story is also quite ridicules which makes this a bit of a silly movie to watch , even for normal ' 40's horror standards . This time the role of the mummy is being played by none other than Lon Chaney Jr . Lon Chaney Jr . of course never has been the greatest actor and he was especially not as good as his father but he's always a great presence in any horror film . And then again , how much acting skill does it actually require to play a mummy ? All of the other actors within this movie surely aren't among the greatest of their time . Dick Foran and Wallace Ford ( though his name for what every reason changed from ' Babe ' Jenson to ' Babe ' Hanson reprise their role again from the previous movie " The Mummy's Tomb " . The movie does feature a couple of good typical ' 40's horror moments , so fans of this shall still somewhat enjoy watching this . Also the make-up for the mummy is quite good looking ago . The movie is mostly made in the same style as the previous movie " The Mummy's Tomb " but it unfortunately is no way nearly as good . Only still really truly watchable and recommendable if you're a die-hard Universal horror fan .
Way too disjointed storytelling .	Director Alex van Warmerdam is known for his own sort of surreal and absurd style of film-making , that however never feel too artistic or forced , which makes all of his movies also perfectly watchable for most large public groups . I'm not too sure if this entirely also goes for " Grimm " . Yes , it's an entertaining movie if you just sit back and relax but unfortunately it also isn't a very well constructed movie . The movie would often change style as the movie progresses . The movie begins as a modern fairytale , with some of the generic elements in it . It however jumps too fast from scene to scene . It doesn't always feel like it's wrapping up things properly . Then the movie almost suddenly stops and slows down once the two characters get to Spain . The movie becomes an entirely different one again . The middle part and till some extend would had made a fairly good movie on its own but keeping in the mind the first part of the movie it makes you realize how utterly pointless that part was , since it doesn't really connect with the rest of the movie . That's why I simply can't regard this movie as a successful one . It's way too disjointed all . I can definitely understand van Warmerdam's intentions with this movie but it just doesn't all translate to the screen very well . He probably thought he was making his " El Topo " . No matter how hard Halina Reijn tries , she and Jacob Derwig , who play brother and sister in this movie , just don't have much chemistry together . I blame Jacob Derwig for this , since his acting seems to be a bit below average at points . I just never have been a too big fan of his acting abilities . The movie is filled with some other well known Dutch and I suppose also fairly well known Spanish actors , in some small as well as some bigger roles . Some are well cast , others obviously aren't . The movie is good looking , with professional cinematography . Also very little wrong with the actual directing of it all , they just didn't had the best material to work with in the long run . Has some quality but it just isn't the best watchable movie .
Not entertaining enough and the movie lacks a real point .	For a Christmas movie - and a children movie in particular , this movie is really lacking in entertainment and likability . It's very simple to say why this movie is not entertaining enough . It's too artificial . Sure , the computer effects are beautiful looking and it's a really big achievement but it makes the movie also very artificial looking and therefor the movie has absolutely no magic feeling in it at all . Because of that very same reason , the characters are too shallow and the story itself is not involving or entertaining enough . I really don't understand why this movie had to be made entirely with the computer . The movie totally lacks human emotions because of this and the whole ' magical ' feeling feels forced and fake . To be frank , I just don't see how this movie is much good as a children's movie . There is nothing to enjoy in this movie for the kids . There aren't really many jokes present and the characters that are in the movie are not really likable or easy to relate with for the kids . They even have no names . The story also has little entertainment value because it's not consistent enough and the events in the movie are just only highly unlikely and are not made to look believable at all . And in general , the movie is more creepy and dark looking than cheerful and happy . What an odd choice for a children Christmas movie . The movie relies too much on its ' magic ' feeling . . . a feeling that is not present in the movie at all . Therefor " The Polar Express " is nothing more than a beautiful looking failure . The story is extremely simple and is told way too weak in the movie . Basically the story is one unlikely and even odd event after the other without them making an obvious connection . I'm also still puzzling what the message of this movie exactly was . I'm pretty sure of it that it's ; Believe in Christmas . But it is never explained in the movie why . Other Christmas movies with these kind of messages also have a morale and explain why it's so beautiful to believe in Christmas and how it makes the world a better place . Not in this movie . The message of the movie is basically muddled in the effects and visual look of the movie . It also helps to make the movie a very forgettable one . And really , did Tom Hanks had to play basically every male character in the movie ? I really like Tom Hanks as an actor but to be honest he is not good enough as a voice actor , in terms of putting diversity and character into the different characters through his voice . Every character he plays sounds the same and maybe because of that the movie also gets too distracting and for some confusing to watch . All of the characters in particular also aren't much special . Most of them are totally obsolete and some of the characters are also highly peculiar portrayed in the movie . For instance all of the elves aren't nice at all in the movie and they didn't exactly made a friendly impression on me . They were even a bit villainous . The way Santa Claus is presented in the movie is also totally wrong . In the movie they made him look like a sort of tribe leader that is treated as a king and is worshiped by all as if he is some sort of God . He is not a friendly , cuddly , cheerful guy at all in this movie . The musical score by Alan Silvestri also got highly annoying after a while . Basically it's the same ' magical ' main theme being played over and over again . The motion capture techniques work out pretty good in the movie and also the animations themselves are really good looking most of the time . There also is some good action , so obviously the movie still has some good things to enjoy . It's of course far from the worst movie ever but also far from the most entertaining one . More was to be expected from a director like Robert Zemeckis , who before this gave us entertaining movies like " Romancing the Stone " , " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " and the Back to the Future trilogy . OK maybe it's because I'm European that I don't like this movie . I mean , the whole magical feeling around Christmas and the whole Christmas spirit is not really a that big thing here . So perhaps if you're American you can still appreciate some of the elements handled in the movie , although I stick to my opinion that it's still lacking in entertainment - and a real good point . A failure of a movie that is from a technical point of view is interesting and good looking .
Dull storytelling .	This movie is one fine example of dull storytelling alright . The pace is too slow , the character development is missing and all of the events are told uninteresting . But what else could you expect from a director who mostly works on TV-series and made for TV-movies , like this one . The movie tells the classic story of the Mary Shelley novel Frankenstein . It might be a faithfully adaptation but it certainly isn't a very good one . The movie is set in some kind of weird English costume drama environment . OK the result are some scene's with some impressive scenery but it doesn't really work well for the atmosphere of the story and it kills all the tension . The story never gets exciting or tense , due to the low pace , standard cinematography and weak editing . The characters are poorly development and I couldn't care more or less about them . The fine actors don't have an awful lot to do , with the weak script and directing . A bit of a waste of a great cast . And Luke Goss basically plays his " Blade II " role all over again , including screaming the lines ; " Father , father ! " . His portrayal of the Frankenstein monster was not really convincing , interesting or memorable . Not a complete disaster to watch but most certainly not an interesting or recommendable one . This movie adds nothing new compared to previously made Frankenstein versions .
Very messy movie that has almost nothing to do with the previous ' Meriachi ' movies . Oh well , at least Johnny Depp is still in it .	Problem with this movie is , is that it's way too messy . The movie features way too many characters and different plot lines which makes the movie unnecessary hard to follow . This movie has almost nothing to do with any of the other ' Mariachi ' movies and real main character of this movie is this time portrayed by Johnny Depp , who gets the most screen time and is by far the most interesting character of the movie . He really steals the show in every scene that he is in . The fun feeling and over-the-top action sequences that were overly present in " Desperado " are sourly missing here . The movie its story takes itself way too serious and because of that , this movie isn't a particularly entertaining one to watch . It still has plenty of action sequences , both all of those moments feel forced and are made unnecessary silly and unbelievable at times . It's pretty obvious that director Robert Rodriguez his good friend Quentin Tarantino , inspired him for this movie . The story of this movie is ' Tarantino ' like and features lots of different odd characters and story lines that are all somehow connected . However Rodriguez simply is no Tarantino and he fails terribly with his story for this movie . He should stick to his own style and that is making movies with an high entertainment value that are very light to watch and always have some good action in it . This movie and its story all feel extremely messy and incoherent and the at times weak editing also doesn't add much good to the movie and its storytelling . This movie is really stuffed with characters and big stars . It's really an overkill in this case and it makes the movie extra hard to follow at times . Sure its fun to see all those well known actors , who I all really like , but it simply doesn't work well for the story and the movie in general . Don't go and see this expecting a " Desperado 2 " . This is a totally different movie with a totally different story and style , that just happens to feature the El Mariachi character in it . Basically his character could had easily been written out of the movie , once you really start thinking about it . A messy movie with a messy story and too many characters and some forced action in it . Thank goodness Johnny Depp is still in this , he saves this movie from being a total disaster and still adds some fun and entertainment value to the movie .
What a soap-opera !	Can someone please explain to Mr . Estevez that movie-making is more then just filming a couple of sequences and putting them in a row ? Its intentions were good but problem with " Bobby " is that the movie just never feels as one whole . Every storyline , with each different characters seem to be shot individually and they also feel that way . I'll bet that most of the actors never actually met , while shooting . It are all small pieces of movie put together , that never really feels as one big whole . The movie focuses on far too many character ( 22 and then some more ) that just aren't interesting enough to follow throughout and they don't feel connected at all to each other . The only reason why the characters are still made interesting is because they are being played by some fine actors . This movie has one of the finest assembly cast since years . Apparently Emilio Estevez has a lot of friends in Hollywood . The movie shows that Sharon Stone and Demi Moore can still act and I even have to admit that I thought that Lindsay Lohan was great . Despite the small size of most of the roles , the actors are still given enough opportunity to shine , despite some horrible and overlong dialog at times . Please leave that to someone else to write next time Mr . Estevez , thank you very much ! The many characters are one of the reasons why this movie feels like such a big soap-opera ! The actual plot line are also a reason why it feels like that . It's just too shallow and quite formulaic all . In the movie basically everyone is unhappy with the situations they are in , until the end when they finally start to brighten up and appreciate life and each other again , until of course the ending comes and their lives are being shattered again , by the assassination of Robert F . Kennedy ( that's not a spoiler is it ? ) , of which they are all present . Yes , I of course known that this was done intentionally , to provide the movie with subjects such as hope , dreams , racism , forgiveness , which all parallels Robert F . Kennedy's ambitions as a future president . But in the movie it seems like such a cheap and also rather predictable way to influence and steer the viewer's emotions . In fact this movie is not about Robert F . Kennedy at all but he just serves as a backdrop for the stories of all of the other characters in the movie . So the movie its title might be a bit deceiving for some . They mostly used real archive footage for his role in this movie , which also doesn't really ever blend in with the rest , since the real footage looks old and grainy and the picture itself looks perfect and clean . It just never makes you believe that Kennedy and the movie characters are ever in the same room . The movie just too much feels and looks like a 12 part made-for-TV mini-series . Perhaps I would had been milder about it if the movie in fact really was a 12 part mini-series .
You'll love it or hate it	This is a kind of movie you'll just love or hate . It has some typical Dutch cruel humor in it . Dutch comedian Paul de Leeuw plays both Bob and Annie de Rooy in a way only he can do it and Rijk de Gooyer plays a great " Godfather " like character . The film is full cameos of famous Dutch actors . The movie has it's funny moments but overall it isn't anything special or new . The story itself is also pretty simple and has been done many , many times before . I've to say I liked the TV show with Bob and Annie de Rooy in it better .
Based on a true story but even so , a not so likely and unrealistic 2 parts mini-series .	It's amazing and horrible that all of this actually really happened . But even so the story remains highly unrealistic especially towards the ending , I just couldn't believe how dumb and stupid the police were at the ending ! Yes , there are some tense and good moments but not as many as dumb and unrealistic moments . The story also uses a bit too many unneeded sideline stories about some of the main characters . It's uninteresting and distracting and even dumb at times . The only reason why this is a watchable mini-series is because of Alun Armstrong that is fantastic as always in roles like these . It really isn't THAT bad but there most certainly are better and more interesting English detectives out there to watch .
Ambitious - but a failed attempt .	Was this movie even being targeted at one specific age group or group in general ? It's doubtful , since the movie stars of as a fast paced and brutal straightforward action flick but after the movie its beginning it slowly turns into a a more sappy and generic movie , when a young boy and his mother get involved and of course the tough main character starts to sympathize for them . Yes , in all fairness the movie did begin promising . It was definitely a case of style over substance but it showed some good and entertaining potential . After the beginning of the movie almost all of the entertainment value of the movie goes down the drain and the movie becomes nothing more than just another average genre piece , in which a couple of thieves constantly chase - and steal from each other , with all of the usual twists , confrontations and action . The cast isn't too surprising . Kurt Russell , Kevin Costner and Christian Slater are about the three best known actors in the business that are Elvis fans . They played in many Elvis Presley related movies before and in some cases the actual person . It does is surprising how big the cast is and how many big names are in it . Courteney Cox , Kevin Pollak , David Arquette , Jon Lovitz , Thomas Haden Church . It's the sort of movie that makes you wonder why all these actors actually agreed to be in this . Courteney Cox was surprisingly good and shows that she can handle different and more carrying and serious roles . Also good to see Kevin Costner in a more villainous role for a change but its not like he shines in it . Ice-T makes a fun cameo but problem with it is that in his cameo he is being treated as a big star , which he of course isn't . It's as if his cameo is supposed to be the ultimate highlight of the movie . Even though the movie is fast cut and has a high pace , the movie still feels overlong and not really that thrilling or exciting . This is because there is basically very little good or interesting ever happening into the movie . Its moments are too predictable . I think I can say that Elvis himself also wouldn't had been too happy with this movie . It prominently features his character , impersonators and his music but it at the same time is a movie that glorifies violence . Seems like the Elvis-link was the only put into the movie to grab the audience attention and make this movie seem different and more special than just any other genre movie . It has it decent moments , which still help to make this movie a sort of watchable one but it at the same time also features some incredibly bad and disjointed storytelling , with moments in it that in the end just don't make sense or even seem redundant . There also are perhaps a bit too many characters and story lines that just don't interest or work out the way they were supposed to . The ambition during the making of this movie was definitely there but the execution of it all and the eventually end result is just below par .
Weak standard movie .	This movie is unoriginal , messy and lacking in true suspense or mystery . This is one of those typical movies inspired by " The Sixth Sense " . In 1999 " The Sixth Sense " took a totally new and original take on the horror genre and mixed it with mystery , drama and thriller elements . Many movies continued on with this new trend , some more successful than others . What also followed with countless wannabees with ' ghosts ' that offered nothing new and seemed like uninspired rehashes . " The Gathering " is a perfect example of one of those movies . The movie is not only unoriginal , its also totally not understandable at times , just because of the fact that it simply doesn't always make sense . Why on Earth take Cassie in house in the first place ? And why does Michael has to die ? It's one of those movies that tries to look clever but feature far too many implausibilities to take it very seriously . The movie also relies on too many ' coicindences ' . The professor , or whatever he is , just happens to watch a couple of random paintings , photographs and historical videos that feature the members of ' the gathering ' on it . The movie is filled with moments like this . The movie takes lots of things for granted without ever bothering to explain or go deeper into things . The movie really could had used some scares and mysterious moments . The movie doesn't have a very good build up and the movie remains a too big mystery for most of its time . It isn't until halve way through the movie that things finally get explained and begin to get clear . This is far too into the movie and definitely too late to save the story , characters and the overall tensions . The first halve is one big pointless build up to nothing , since it doesn't add to the atmosphere and tension of the movie . Christina Ricci is a good actress , although I admit I'm far from a fan of hers . At one point I even couldn't stand her in any movie but she and her acting seems to have matured over the years , ever since " Sleepy Hollow " . She carries the movie mostly on her own and gets very little support from its supporting cast members . Ioan Gruffudd is also in it but his character seems a redundant one . Mackenzie Crook is also in the movie as one of the members of ' the gathering ' but his role is a very small one though . But the movie serves its purpose enough . Even though the story and movie as a whole is quite standard , it serves its purpose . It doesn't offer any scares or tense moments but the movie also doesn't bore . The movie therefor remains a watchable one for most of its running time and its also good looking . The fact that after 4 years this movie isn't even released yet in North-America should say enough . A weak standard movie that somewhat serves its purpose but features nothing new or remarkable . A typical 13 in a dozen movie .
Sloppy made movie . Still works somewhat as a feel good movie .	This movie is a very sloppy one . The story is filled with some unlikely events and characters and the directing and especially editing is seriously flawed mostly . Still thanks to its music , this movie still has some entertainment value and also somewhat still works as a ' feel good movie ' . Perhaps the biggest problem with the movie is that the comedy and drama elements of the movie are not balanced out very well . At times the movie can't seem to decide whether it wants to be a comedy or a drama . A result of this is that most of the comedy feels out of place and seriously mistimed . The movie becomes never funny to watch because of this but the warm feel good atmosphere of the movie still somewhat compensates for this . Cuba Gooding Jr . seriously needs to start looking for another agent . I mean this is an Oscar winning actor but yet he appears in movies like " Chill Factor " , " Pearl Harbor " and " Boat Trip " ? I mean , what's up with that ? He deserves to play better roles in better movies . This movie is also one of those movies in which he feels out of place . I know he can play comical roles well but in this movie he just never gets enough opportunity to show this . As a matter of fact , none of the characters in the movie work out or feel deep enough . The movie seems to concentrate more ( and too much ) on its music than on its characters and story in general . I seriously don't think that Beyoncé Knowles is a bad actress but just like Cuba , her role isn't significant - and present enough in the movie . Rue McClanahan also somehow got mixed up in this mess . At times it just totally feels like entire sequences in the movie are missing . Lots of moments in the movie feel rushed and are not satisfying enough . The movie is a real sloppy job . You can't just blame the script for this but also the filmmakers involved . Yes , it's a real mess of a movie at times , that too often takes the easy simple road . But yet the movie still works good thanks to its music . It makes the movie very pleasant to watch and therefor the movie still works good as a simple feel good movie . But that obviously doesn't mean that the movie itself is also a good one . The movie is too flawed in its story and way of film-making to consider this movie a good or totally recommendable one . There still is enough to enjoy in this movie but the sloppy way of film-making and storytelling don't make this movie really a recommendable one . Perhaps this movie is a typical case of ' watch at your own risk ' . . . chances are you might end up loving - or totally hating it .
You just can't fight propaganda with propaganda .	It's also good and refreshing and sometimes also important to show things from another perspective but it's never a good idea to fight propaganda with propaganda , as this movie obviously tries to do . This movie is an obvious response to Hollywood portraying people from the Middle-East and of course Iraqies in particular as villains and ruthless murderous terrorist . To put it in perspective ; Also when you look at American war movies during WW II , as a response to the Nazi-propaganda movies , you have to come to the conclusions that those also aren't exactly among the best movie ever made . But all politics aside , this plain and simple just isn't a very good movie , with a bad script and actors that can't even act their way out of a paper bag . The American's and American army-top are being portrayed like James Bond kind of villains ( they even managed to put in a Mengele like American doctor , played by Gary Busey . ) , which is kind of weird and perhaps even a bad laughable , considering the obvious serious intentions of this movie . The American's all have itchy-trigger fingers , looking for an excuses to kill as many people as possible , by searching for an excuse under the norm of terrorism . Even if there is some truth in this , this movie just isn't the right way to fight this . This movie does not create any debates , simply because you just can't take this movie serious because of the unrealistic and over-the-top style of movie making . The movie therefore totally misses it's mark , despite its good intentions . Billy Zane and Gary Busey are respected actors ( well , till some extend they are . ) and it's quite hard to understand why they ever agreed to appear in this movie . The only reason I can think off why they ever agreed to appear in this movie is because they were against the American invasion of Iraq and they appeared in this movie for moral and personal reasons . Nothing wrong with that of course and it's obvious their own choice and right to do so . It also doesn't do the movie much good that they have a totally bad and uninteresting script . The writers obviously aren't among their best in their profession and still needs of learning to do and experience to gain with movie making . The movie has a fairly stupid and totally uninteresting main plot-line . There really isn't actually much happening ever in this movie . It actually also makes this movie a bit of a bore and drag at points to watch . The movie is good looking though . It has good production values , despite it's fairly low budget and inexperienced people involved . Not a terrible movie , just one that misses its mark .
A totally pointless movie .	It's hard to say what this movie exactly tries to achieve . It awfully tries to be a political correct movie towards ' little people ' and the movie almost becomes documentary like and doesn't even try to hide this . The moral of the movie is too cheesy and overdone . It's painfully obvious that writer Bill Weiner is still a beginning writer . The movie is written awfully simple and has some downward horrible dialog in it . It's a big mystery to me why so many big stars appeared in this movie . Gary Oldman , Matthew McConaughey , Kate Beckinsale and Patricia Arquette are some big names in the business . They are given awful material to work with and the movie felt like a waste of their talent . Especially Gary Oldman seemed out of place . He plays a ' little person ' in this movie and to me he didn't looked very convincing . It was highly obvious to me that Oldman was sitting on his knees the whole movie , which was terribly distracting . Couldn't they had just cast a real ' little person ' for that role ? There are some many great little actors out there . Oldman was also terribly unconvincing as Matthew McConaughey TWIN BROTHER . They look absolutely nothing like each other and on top of that Oldman is also too old to be believable as McConaughey's twin brother . This movie made me realize that Oldman is really getting old now . He also looked old in " Batman Begins " but I though it was due to make-up . This movie however made me realize that Oldman really looks as old as that . But of course this movie is far from the worst ever . The movie is professionally good looking and of course , even though they were given awful material to work with , the famous actors also bring some sparks and life to the movie . The story and moral of the movie are too obvious . It's certainly a watchable movie but I in no case would recommend it to anyone .
Titanic II	Contains minor spoilersThe movie tries too hard to be like " Titanic " and uses all the ingredients that are used in " Titanic " but " Pearl Harbor " fails . . . The biggest problem with this movie is that the film makers can't seem to decide what for a movie they wanted to make : A spectacular one or a realistic one , with as a result that the realistic / shocking scene's in the movie just don't work in the way they should . The actors only seems to have been cast because of their looks instead of their acting skills . Especially the nurses look unrealistic beautiful complete with make-up and hair style . And then the love story . . . well what can I say , the love story just doesn't work for me and is over the top at some points SPOILERfor instance when Evelyn ( Kate Beckinsale ) finds out she is pregnant , that just seemed so over the top and out of place that I almost stopped watching the movie at that pointSPOILER You can say that the love story kind of ruins the movie at some points . The character are not interesting enough due to poor character development and I wondered lot's of times throughout the movie : " Why are we following this characters ? ? ? What makes them so interesting to follow ? ? ? " In my opinion the movie should have focused more on the political aspects of Pearl Harbor and the leaders , like Roosevelt ( Jon Voight ) and the attack itself instead of Rafe and Danny ( Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett ) and their friendship and problems . Another thing that bothered me is the Cuba Gooding Jr . character . The character is just pointless and it's only distracting and seem so out of place . The only reason I can think of why they had put them in the movie is because it's a political correct character to put in a movie . One more thing before I'll mention the things I liked about the movie . The movie makes an huge mistake to not stop after the attack on Pearl Harbor . The movie goes on and follows the Doolittle raid on Japan . This is absolutely pointless and I think that an alternate ending should had been made . The things I liked : First of all , I thought all the Roosevelt ( Jon Voight ) scene's were fantastic . Secondly Alec Baldwin played in my opinion a great role as Lt . Colonel James ' Jimmy ' Doolittle . Some more things that I liked are : The camera work ( although it was VERY over the top ) , the editing ( the movie has a good quick pace ) , the music by Hans Zimmer and the attack on Pearl Harbor itself was made beautifully . I don't mean to bash the movie too hard , but it just isn't good enough . If you want to see a good spectacular / realistic war movie you should watch " Black Hawk Down " instead and if you want to see a good realistic war movie you should watch " Saving Private Ryan " . Only watch this movie for the special effects and when you have nothing else to do , you might even like it ( I know that some people just love this movie ) .
Too much of an extension of the first movie .	One of the problems with this movie is that it relies too much on the events that happened in the first movie . The result is that the story is too silly and some of the events are recycled and the movie leaves an overall needless impression . Another example of how the movie relies too much on the first movie is the fact that the brought back the character Tangina Barrons . It is understandable why they did it since her character has grown into a well known movie character but I don't know , for some reason I feel that the movie would had been better off without her . And poor Craig T . Nelson . He tries very hard to make the unbelievable story line's and ridiculous dialogue's believable . It was a shame to see him struggle with the line's so much . He does his very best but the end result isn't always successful . Another problem I had with the movie is that it wasn't scary . Main reason for this is that there now is a main villain in an human form . Granted the the actor Julian Beck who portrays him is one scary looking guy but he seemed more like a psycho than a creep from another dimension . Yes , Julian Beck acts very well and even though he isn't the right villain for this movie , he was still one of the highlights . He also really seemed to be in serious pain by every line he delivered , I don't know if this has anything to do by his decease which claimed his life , or if it just is his way of acting . But it doesn't really matter , with this worthy last role he played the part of his life . But is this movie a complete disaster ? No , far from it . There are some nice special effects and with Jerry Goldsmith composing an horror score you always have a winner . But anyway , overall a ( nother ) needless sequel that only might be recommendable if you also liked the superior first movie .
Not really sure what to say and think about this movie .	It's easy to see that this movie is a failure but it's hard to point out what it is that makes this movie a bad one . The movie is just too sloppy and not involving enough to say anything useful about it . The movie has a formulaic and predictable story but on top of that also picks a just totally bad approach of things . The story isn't really going anywhere and it basically picks all of the least interesting angels imaginable . The story never becomes emotional or in any way engaging . You won't care for any of the characters and you also overall just don't really care for anything else that's happening within this movie . A failure as a drama and as a romantic movie . It's incredible how this movie is written . It's as if they were thinking lets make an original movie with unoriginal ingredients . This of course doesn't work and causes the movie its story to be such a distant - and far from interesting one . You can say that the movie its problems start with its main source material already . I must say that Gwyneth Paltrow still gave her best efforts but it seems like a waste of energy to me . Most of the other actors don't seem at place within the genre . Its true that they aren't being helped though by the most realistic writing or best kind of dialog . Couldn't they just have said no this this movie ? Just not really a movie worth watching , although also being far from the worst the genre has to offer .
So many big stars and then such an average movie . . .	This movie has a cast to die for ; Mel Gibson , Michelle Pfeiffer , Kurt Russell , Raul Julia , J . T . Walsh , Arliss Howard . It makes you wonder though why they all ever agreed to appear in this movie . It's a waste of their talents really , since the movie its script doesn't provide the movie with anything interesting or exciting . Instead it more often confuses and bores . I was real disappointed by the movie its script . While ' 80's police movies also aren't exactly know for their great or original stories but this story is even worse than usual . In the end you just stop carrying about anything that is happening in this movie or for any of its characters , since the movie has dragged along for far too long . The movie is lacking a certain depth with its story . In all honesty the movie really didn't started off too bad but its one of those movies that gets worse by the minute . In the end it makes you regret you've ever watched it . It's sad that not even the great cast could put some life into the movie and its story . It's also a rather unknown movie from each of the movie its actors . They still try their very best but no , I can't really say it helps much . Although it of course is certainly true that the presence of actors such as Mel Gibson , Michelle Pfeiffer , Kurt Russell , Raul Julia and J . T . Walsh still uplifts the movie . I mean , with a totally different and unknown cast the movie would had been far worse for sure . What the movie is lacking is some good action . It would at least had made the movie more interesting to watch . And when you have an ' 80's action-star such as Mel Gibson in your movie , why not use that ? Instead now the movie feels like a movie done action-crime-thriller movie style but without any action in it and also without much thriller elements , since the movie is just not exciting or original enough to allow any of these elements to completely work out . The movie also suffers from an horrible ' 80's music curse ; the ' 80's music ! It's so dreadful , hearing constantly some idiot playing his saxophone as loud as he can , with an occasional guitar and drums joining in . It's a score you can normally expected in a bad porn-flick . Oh well , it's not exactly as if this is THE worst movie ever made but it also isn't exactly a movie I would recommend to anyone , despite the presence of some good big names in it .
Unorignal and predictable movie but with some nice moments .	This movie is fairly unknown and I see no reason why this should be any different . " The 4th Floor " is an highly unoriginal thriller / horror movie . There have been made dozens of movies like this the last couple of years and difference is that most of them were better than this one . Yes , the movie does have some good moments and suspense but you can tell that director Josh Klausner is too unexperienced . There isn't much originality and the movie falls into some obvious clichés . Josh Klausner normally only works as second unit director for the Farrelly brothers . My advice to him is to stick to that job . After a couple of minutes I already figured out the ending . Smart you ! ' you might say but I think it says something more about the originality and predictability of this movie than about my intelligence . Still it was fun to see Shelley Duvall in a movie again . Besides " The Shining " I don't think that I ever have seen her in a other movie . I also enjoyed Tobin Bell who I like as an actor . Too bad he never ever really stars in big roles in big productions . William Hurt is a good actor but his role was simply too small in this movie to be really notable . I can't think of any reason why you should watch this movie . But when you still decide to do so , you won't be completely disappointed , just as long as you don't expect too much of it .
Not funny enough	This movie lacks what a good comedy needs : Humor . Sure the movie has it's funny moments such as the beginning ( that is absolutely hilarious ! ) and the bar fight . But a good comedy needs more then 1 or 2 funny moments . The cast is impressive ( Dan Akroyd is superb ) but unfortunately their good performances can't save this movie . The movie doesn't really have a good and interesting story and the characters aren't interesting enough either . It was a nice try and good for a few laughs but overall a disappointing comedy . Nevertheless it's still worth watching simply because it's a Spielberg movie and because of the excellent cast .
This movie gives a totally wrong message .	So what is the moral of this movie ? Gays are also persons ? This movie is offensive towards both homosexuals and transitives and gives a totally wrong impression and message , even though I'm sure that director Joel Schumacher made this movie with his best intentions . Really the only thing positive to say about this movie are the two main characters played by Robert De Niro and future Oscar winner Philip Seymour Hoffman . They make most of the humor and comedy work but can't hide the movie its false message and the pointless weak main plot . Were they really thinking that they were making a new " As Good as It Gets " ? For some reason this movie often reminded me of that movie , so a little bit more originality also wouldn't had been a bad idea . The movie was made in 1999 but really if you would had told me it had been made in 1989 I would also had believed you . It think that the story is mainly the reason for this . The predictable plot really reminds me of an average movie from the late 80's . But no the movie is not really THAT bad . Most of the comedy is good and there are some nice fun characters to enjoy . Just ignore the totally wrong message and moral of this movie and you might even shall enjoy watching it .
Somewhat enjoyable but still messy movie .	" Gone in Sixty Seconds " can be an enjoyable action movie as long as you don't take it too serious . The movie is professionally made but it still is very obvious that the script went trough many rewrites . The story feels at times messy and has some pointless action side-plot lines . Not everything in the movie feels connected with each other . It's somewhat a shame of the story because the movie had a very good cast that really could had made this movie an unforgettable one , had it had a better more coherent storyline . The cast is seriously filled with some big names ; Nicolas Cage , Giovanni Ribisi , Angelina Jolie , Scott Caan , Will Patton , Delroy Lindo , Timothy Olyphant , Robert Duvall , Christopher Eccleston , Vinnie Jones . Every filmmaker can be jealous at a cast like this . Robert Duvall is especially excellent in his role but he seems a bit out of place in this movie . He simply is a too good actor to be in a movie like this . Why he ever agreed to do this movie , I will never understand . The movie does has some nice moments , especially the car chases . The movie is nicely edited by action movie specialists ; Roger Barton , Chris Lebenzon , Tom Muldoon , without ever going really over-the-top . The movie is nothing memorable but it does provide some good entertaining moments and characters . For what it's worth , it's better than any of the two " The Fast and the Furious " movies . Why ? Because at least it doesn't take itself as serious as those two movies do . At least " Gone in Sixty Seconds " is because of that reason still an enjoyable movie to watch , despite me rating it as lowly as I do . The fact that I'm rating it as low as I do has everything to do with the story aspects of the movie but nothing with the entertainment value it has .
More minuses than pluses sadly .	Although the movie is not THAT bad , it still is a disappointing end to the series . Huge problem is the horrible script . I think it's not fair to blame the actors for doing a poor job , I think it's all due to the poorly written dialog and dumb situations . They also should have left the Kane character alone , after Julian Beck's death they should have come up with a new and different ' villain ' . It is especially the beginning of the movie that is extremely bad and almost B-movie like with horrible dialog and ' comedy ' . Nice thing is that this is Lary Flynn Boyle's first role in a movie . At the time of this film she was still looking normal and was eating her food it seemed . Richard Fire as Dr . Seaton was one of the highlights of the movie , he seemed like the only one that knew in what for a mess of a movie he got into . It made his character enjoyable and humor full . The special effect certainly aren't a disappointment in this movie and the mirror effects are great , although heavily overused throughout the entire movie . But what ever happened to the music ? Jerry Goldsmith's score for the previous two Poltergeist movies was perfect . In this movie the famous Carol Anne's theme isn't even used once in any variation . Shame on you Joe Renzetti . If you still thought that " Poltergeist II : The Other Side " was watchable enough for you , than " Poltergeist III " might also be very well worth your time .
Weak story ruins potentially interesting concept .	This is not an horrible movie but it's just one of those type of movies that is very formulaic and forgettable to watch . The movie its weakest element is its writing . The story focuses more on the personal and relational aspects of the characters rather than on the actual thriller plot-line of the movie . The movie often becomes just uninteresting because of that . But on top of that , the actual thriller plot-line of the movie also isn't exactly anything renewing or spectacular . It's quite weak honestly , as mostly shows in the end . It also doesn't feature exactly the most credible story . The two main characters in the movie , played by Mark Harmon and Sean Connery don't like each other from the start and they actually also share a long history of not liking each other but nevertheless they decide to team up with each other , without being forced to do so . Not really the director's fault though . As a matter of fact , Peter Hyams is a quite underrated director . Yes OK so most of his latest works such as " A Sound of Thunder " is horrible but he also directed " Capricorn One " , " 2010 " and " Sudden Death " , which are all kind of underrated movies within their genre . It is unlikely though that he will ever make a movie like this again , since I don't think a lot of studios are still willing to give Peter Hyams a go with a big movie production , considering all of the box office bombs he directed the last couple of years . His latest movie that is currently in production , " Beyond a Reasonable Doubt " will probably also not become a success I would suspect . Sure it stars Michael Douglas but lets also be honest here , Michael Douglas hasn't starred in anything decent ever since the 2000 movie " Traffic " . In this movie it's mostly notable that Peter Hayms started his directing career in the ' 70's . This movie features some very typical ' 70's thriller elements . Most notably are its chases . This movie features some real good chase sequences . Also some good old fashioned foot chases . You don't need fast cars , explosions and fancy editing to make a good chase sequence , as this movie shows . Sometimes I really miss some good old fashioned foot chases in most recent productions . It's also of course nice that the movie features some good and well known actors but it's not like they can uplift the movie to a much higher level . The script is too simplistic , unoriginal and restrained for that . A waste of Sean Connery's and Meg Ryan's talent you could say . Funny thing is that Mark Harmon more or less later would play the same type of role in the hit-series " Navy NCIS : Naval Criminal Investigative Service " . The movie is basically one big waste of a potentially good and interesting concept but the story unfortunately picks some uninteresting approaches to it . The main concept gets for instance much better handled in the Columbo movie " Columbo : By Dawn's Early Light " . Not that this movie is completely horrible , it's just so very standard and forgettable all .
Well , it's ' 70's horror so it still has plenty of redeeming qualities .	This is by no means a classic genre movie but for a low budget independent ' 70's horror movie it also certainly is one fine watchable movie . Biggest problem with this movie is that there is no main character . Basically for the first third of the movie you only see different murders occur . You just keep waiting for the movie to introduce its main ' hero ' . Some times character's roles become bigger in the movie and you expect the rest of the movie to be focused entirely around them but every time then the movie cuts away again and takes a whole other direction with its story and characters . So not really the most consistent movie around . It's an ' 70's movie , so the movie uses lots of unusual experimental editing . It's fine looking but yet it doesn't all quite work out well enough . The movie uses the proper right required horror build up for its sequences but yet when it comes down to its most important part ; the scare moments , the movie falls short . The movie just never knows to become truly tense and perhaps you can even call the movie a bit boring in parts . This is also due to some of the pacing problems of the movie . The fact that we get to know who the killer is pretty early on in the movie ( the hairy arms gave it away ) also takes away a lot of the tension and mystery atmosphere of the movie . Even though the movie gets gory in parts , I mean the murders are being committed with the contents of a toolbox , how can it not be gory but it's just never really shocking . Still fans of this sub-genre will probably most likely still enjoy and appreciate this movie .
No thumbs up for this one . . .	I watched this movie for two reasons ; The amazing Gary Oldman and for the music by Michael Giacchino of whom I'm a fan ever since his " Medal of Honor " scores . The movie was not completely a waste of time but it also was far from good . Man to blame is I think director Michael Stevens , you can tell by looking at this movie that he is just too unexperienced . There are some well executed sequences but there are way more scene's that are just poorly done also due to some weird and dumb camera positions and some poor editing . Michael Stevens tries to impress the viewer with some shots of nature , it only works distracting and doesn't do much good to the pace . Maybe he should consider a career as documentary maker ? The story is also quite a problem . It takes a while before you understand what the movie is all about . Once you pick up the story the movie is actually not bad , it's just that it has been done about a hundred times before . Ving Rhames tries but he just ain't no good leading actor , I liked his costume but that's about all the positive I can say . Gary Oldman is in his element as psychopathic villain . He played a lot of roles like this before but in his case you just never get tired of it . Brian Cox is also excellent in a small supporting role . And keep an eye on Arie Verveen , I expect great things for him in the future . If you can ignore the bad dialog , story , plot-holes and directing you'll see that there is some good in this movie and that it is a watchable one that is fairly entertaining as an action movie but not a must see in any way .
The movie is good thriller material but the last 30 minutes are ridicules .	The movie starts of well . The story is nicely build up and the characters are portrayed nicely . The story itself is pretty well constructed and has some good thriller elements in it . Nothing too original but enough fine story material to make a good decent movie with . However in the last 30 minutes the movie loses all its credibility when the story becomes unlikely and the characters their actions also become ridicules to follow . It's a real shame . Not that the movie had really much potential but it still seemed good enough material to make a pleasant , light easy to follow-thriller with . The actors certainly seemed to believe in the movie . It's too bad that after the well build up first halve , the second halve and especially toward the ending of the movie , all logic is abandoned and the movie turns into nothing more than a ridicules and unlikely thriller . All of the sudden several new characters pop-up that not only seem unnecessary but they are also lacking in fundamental things such as likability , credibility and depth . At times I didn't even knew who were the good guys and the bad guys anymore . Bruce Greenwood does a really good job at portraying his character . Virginia Madsen also does a decent job but her performance is not as memorable . She also isn't always likable enough as the main character . Her actions don't always make her character believable and likable enough . Not Madsen her fault of course , just blame it on the script . The movie is made without much style and flair . A typical made-for-TV movie . It's not the most exciting or original thriller to watch but it's still all decent enough , aside from the horrible final 30 minutes of the movie .
Charlie Bronson back in business again .	This is a very simple straight-forward action flick , in line with these early Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone movies with lots of violence . There is nothing wrong with watching and enjoying such a simple action flick from time to time . It's a kill first , then ask questions type of movie in which former hit-man Charlie Bronson is hunting a Mengele like doctor , who makes a living out of torturing people for crooked governments . Sort of funny how Bronson always played already retired persons who get drawn back in to business , from already pretty early on in the ' 80's , right till his death in 2003 . It's actual a real simple made movie , with a story that is very little interesting but it's just simply a movie that entertains through its very same simplicity . And well it's a Charles Bronson movie , directed by J . Lee Thompson , so obviously it's still better than the usual ' 80's genre attempt . But yes of course its simplicity also prevents this movie from being a really good or truly memorable genre movie . The movie is perhaps also too lack-lusting for that . Although the movie is featuring some graphic violence , it isn't featuring an awful lot of action and I expected and was hoping for some more shooting ( OK that sounded evil . ) . It's of course also mostly predictable and formulaic which makes this movie a bit tiresome to watch in parts . I was also hoping for some more fireworks at the ending . Enjoyable enough to watch it but no , it by no means is a must-see obviously .
One of the most pointless movies I've ever seen .	No , this by no means is the most dreadful movie I have ever seen , not even by a mile but it also is however a movie that made a totally pointless and not lasting impression on me . Perhaps the biggest problem of this movie is that it can't decide what it wants to be . Its story and somewhat its storytelling is obviously inspired by the first ' new age ' British gangster flick " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " but yet the movie also has the rawness and more seriousness of the ' 70's British gangster flicks , such as for instance " Get Carter " , which not entirely coincidently so also stars Michael Caine . The movie just doesn't know to create a well enough balance between its comedy and violence / crime because of this . Therefore the movie simply does not work out . The story is all over the place because of it that it tries to be clever , while in fact it really isn't . The plot twists , such as the one at the end , feel more weak and ridicules , rather than surprising . Also most characters really don't work out within the movie , due to its approach . For instance what's the point of having Oscar-winner Martin Landau in this if you don't know to use him properly . But I must say that the movie is still made watchable because of one simple reason ; Michael Caine . It's a role that is very typical for him and that he suits so very well . He was good in those kind of roles 30 years ago and he's still good at it now . He plays a tough ruthless boxing promoter , with questionable motives and friends , who also happens to have a son who is on his way of becoming the next big man of boxing . An over ambitious proud father , with a shady past and present is a combination that of course calls for trouble . And trouble he gets within this movie . Do we care however ? I don't think so . " Shiner " is a very uninvolved movie with a too weak script to let this movie ever rise above the level of average . A movie you can really easily do without .
Should have a disclaimer ' for fans only ' put on it .	To be honest this movie was a real deception , after hearing all the positive stories about it . Guess I'm just not a fan . I remember watching " Transformers " as a kid and I remember playing with the toys with my friends at their house . But further more I really have no recollections of the series . Guess I was too young at the time when the " Transformers " were at their prime in the Netherlands . I remembered the basic main characters but that was about it . For anyone who isn't really that familiar with the ' 80's cartoon series , this can be a very confusing and even bad movie to watch . Really nothing is ever explained in this movie and everything is just taken for granted . Basically the entire movie is about the Autobots constantly fighting the Decepticons but in the movie it never gets clear way . The entire story lacks a purpose and the movie is just basically the one event after the other without bothering to explain anything , or even introduce the characters . I'm sure that the movie worked better in 1986 , when new " Transformers " animated series episodes were still being made and everybody was still really into the series and characters . The movie was perhaps perfect for its time but in todays perspective the movie is just silly and without a point . The ' 80's musical score makes the movie feel even more outdated ! The story is really the weakest thing about the movie . Sure , when compared to a animated series episode the story is more complex and bigger but nevertheless , for ' just ' a movie the story is just way too weak and simple . The movie also heavily ' borrows ' from the Star Wars movies with its story . For the fans this movie is a nostalgic trip to a great period of growing up with the animated series and the classic characters . They should be able to appreciate all of the characters and big battles in the movie but for a non-fan the movie simply just has very little entertainment to offer . The humor is underused and the most fun and interesting characters seems wasted in the story . Often characters are introduced quickly in the movie and they disappear out of just as quick ( often without a clear reason or explanation ) again . Still the characters are the reason why the movie still somewhat works out . All of the characters are highly imaginative and obviously have a long background with each other . But like I said before , all of the best and most interesting characters are wasted in the movie and the movie also has way too many characters in it for a 84 minutes short movie . For most part the animations look just the same as for the television show , with the exceptions of a couple of big battle sequences , that are detailed but at the same time also quite confusing to watch at times . Oh , and Orson Welles somehow also got mixed up in this . I'm really not surprised that he later regretted this and actually hated the movie . If you're a fan and grew up with the series , then by all means see this movie , already for nostalgic reasons alone but if you're just like me , a person who've seen some of the animated series episodes but it didn't made an huge or lasting impression on you , than you're really better of just skip viewing it .
Really well made genre movie but man , what bad storytelling !	The movie is really good looking with a great visual style , that makes this a great genre movie to watch . But the movie has such an incredibly bad story and storytelling that the movie still manages to almost become unwatchable at times . Not only just the story is simple and formulaic , it also is told in about the worst way possible . The story never flows well , which is probably also due to some bad editing . Seems like director Gérard Pirès only concentrated on the style and action of the movie and not on its story at all . Definitely a case of style over substance . The story features lots of clichés and some highly unlikely moments , even for action movie standards and the movie also doesn't exactly become much better as the movie develops . The movie even gets truly ridicules at times . Too bad because with its style and cast involved , the movie really showed some potential . The movie really has a great cast . Stephen Dorff is a great actor and he also even shows that in this movie . Bruce Payne goes way too much over-the-top with his role , which causes him to be an unlikely and not likable enough villain . Steven Berkoff is way better , in an also over-the-top but very fun role , as a Southern villain , with an Elvis-wig . It's a role you normally wouldn't expect from him . And thank goodness that Natasha Henstridge's role is smaller than she is credited with . The action is fair enough . Definitely no big-budget kind of stuff but obviously also way better than the average B-action movie . The movie provides a couple of thrills and kicks . Some of the special effects are a bit too fake looking at times unfortunately . A fair enough enjoyable guilty-pleasure to watch but don't forget to switch off your brain first .
Awkward little film .	No wonder this movie never got a world wide release . It's a simple made little movie that tries to be original in several different ways but fails at it in about every way possible . This movie is supposed to be a fake documentary , a so called mockumentary , that focuses on the build up to a title-boxing match , set in London , between the champion Jose Mendez ( Michael Pena ) and the underdog and milkman Jimmy ' The Calcium Kid ' Connelly . It makes you wonder that if this is supposed to be a fake documentary , than why isn't it made in documentary style . It uses movie camera positions , lighting and editing , complete with cuts and different positions and a chronological scene build up . Basically the only way they tried to make it look a bit like a documentary , is by adding a ' camera ' voice-over and they let the camera being attacked and talked into a couple of times . It's really lame and it certainly doesn't add to the credibility or realism of the movie . The movie as a whole is hard to take serious since it goes comically so over-the-top that it isn't even good as a funny one . The humor is lame and simple , the sort of stuff a 9-year would normally come up with . The movie is made in ' new-English style ' . The kind of style which Guy Ritchie first began to use in his movies . Fast editing , fast pace , a cool style and music , over-the-top character and lots of humor . This is probably the only reason why this movie still remains a perfectly watchable one . It however does not always work out perfect . The characters for instance are all far from likable and / or comical . The humor itself on its own is also quite simple and awkward . This movie is far from funny or clever . The movie is filled with surprising many good and well known actors , for such a small movie as this one . The material and dialog they have to work with however isn't world class and the barely manage to make certain sequences and situations to still work out . Most of the actors also feel out of place . Orlando Bloom certainly isn't in his element as normal and simple everyday person . He just isn't the greatest comical talent around , which shows in this movie . Reading the premise of this movie , a inexperienced underdog against the boxing champion , one could immediately scream ; " Rocky " ripoff ! It certainly is true that this movie is far from original and the fact that the movie literally also spoofs some moments and entire sequences , completely with the same music , from the Rocky movies doesn't help to make this movie an original one that you can take serious as a boxing movie , not even as a comical meant to be one . In the end the movie still tries to take a surprising and non-formulaic twist but the twist is far from good , interesting or funny for that mater . As a matter of fact it gives the movie a bad aftertaste . A failed movie on many accounts . Still somewhat watchable thanks to its style .
Too offbeat for my taste .	This is a slow going Universal / Hammer vampire production , that could had worked out if it had some more and a better style written over it . Instead now the movie feels like a real lackluster . The movie is atmospheric but definitely not tense or exciting . This movie is quite different from the regular Hammer horror production from the ' 60's . For some this approach will work , while for others it certainly simply won't appeal much . The last is for me the case , even though I always normally enjoy watching an Hammer production . Noel Willman looks like Christopher Lee and sounds like Bela Lugosi , so in other words he is a good count Dracula , even though his character has a different name in this movie but of course it's still the same character . It's still of course a big shame that Christopher Lee himself doesn't star in this movie , like he had done in so many other Hammer film productions . Same goes for Peter Cushing . There is a Van Helsing type of character in this movie , which in this case is being played by Clifford Evans . It isn't until very well halve way through that the movie and its story finally start to take on a good form and pace , when the true horror and mystery of the movie starts to kick in . The movie does get better after that point but it really doesn't make this a very consistent movie though . Not everything within this movie blends in very well with each other . I liked the musical score from James Bernard , who throughout his career almost entirely solely worked for the Hammer studios . He worked on some of the best known productions such as the 1958 movie " Dracula " , " The Hound of the Baskervilles " , " The Quatermass Xperiment " , " The Plague of the Zombies " and some many more Frankenstein and Dracula movies from the Hammer studios . He was a great genre composer who provided the movies with an unique and suiting sound . A different but not necessarily better vampire movie from the Universal and Hammer studios . Still watchable though .
Really not the best genre movie around .	This movie just doesn't have the most exciting or best mystery-elements around . It's a rather dull movie that lacks most of the required genre elements . Although it tries in parts - this is no film-noir but even for a ' standard ' thriller type of movie this one just isn't good enough . The story isn't the most interesting one around but it's even worse how the story is told . Some of the sequences go on for far too long , without anything interesting happening in it . Problem is that the story felt the need to put in way too much ( redundant ) dialog . Guess that they just desperately tried to make the movie longer , since it's a quite short one ( 92 minutes ) . The movie really isn't build up well and in the beginning it's too unclear were the movie is trying to head to . The movie picks some weird and unbelievable plot-lines . Besides that , the movie also doesn't offer any real surprises . It's pretty clear from the beginning on who are going to be the good and bad guys and gals of the movie . It's true that the movie gets better toward the end but it's all too late to still fully save the movie . In its build up the movie simply lacks all the things needed to make a good and tense genre movie with . For a thriller this movie is just too dull and totally not interesting enough to follow . The characters all remain too flat and the only established actor in this movie is Robert Taylor , who does his very best but just can't carry this movie on his own . I mean this movie is not even good or really interesting to watch for the most hardened Robert Taylor fans . For me it was a big plus that the movie is set and actually filmed - and almost entirely set in The Netherlands . It was all very recognizable . It's locations and atmosphere works well for the movie , although it's too bad that they didn't made the trouble to cast Dutch actors in the roles of Dutch , not even for the bit parts , which was a bit distracting but obviously only should be so when you're Dutch yourself . By no means the worst genre movie I've ever seen but just not among one of the best or most refreshingly original ones either . Somewhat watchable but not really recommendable to anyone .
Nice concept , not executed too well .	This movie has a quite good promising concept for a genre movie . It's a slasher in which lots of people are getting killed randomly by a serial killer . Like many genre movies before the movie uses phone-calls as its main concept . It's something which always works out well for horror / thriller movies . Nothing wrong with the phone-class but everything else about the movie is just way below par . I purely watch these kind of movies because of Rutger Hauer . Even though the movies are always horrible , his presence still gives the movies always something special . But like always , his role is far too small . Perhaps if he was the main lead the movie would still had been more bearable . It now is as if he plays in a totally different movie himself and has nothing to do with the main plot-line of the movie . Like his scenes were shot at a totally different phase of production . I bet he never ever even met most of the other actors and crew members involved with the movie . One of the movie its problem are its characters . The movie is a slasher , so of course it features a bunch of university students , played of course by a bunch of actors who are close to - or even older than 30 years already . None of them are however likable or memorable . They are basically all the same and a bunch of typical stereotypes . I don't even know who all these characters were and what their names were . There are just too many characters in it and most of them are just asking to be killed . The movie its story also just doesn't ever seem to get off the ground . The first halve of the movie is filled with many false scares . Way too many . The scare moments of the movie because of this start to become really ineffective . It even makes the movie more comical like at times than an horror movie . Not sure if this was the point of it all . It was Brian Hooks first and as of yet only directed movie . Besides that he also played the main lead and served as a producer and writer for the movie . He's obviously not the most talented person around in the business . When the movie becomes more of a slasher and horror / thriller movie the movie becomes more watchable to watch for the genre fans , despite being formulaic and predictable with it all . No , it's just not the most exciting or scary genre movie around but there are also definitely worse of out there . The genre fans should be able to appreciate some of the gore and violence of the movie . The movie soon however starts to get worse again as it heads toward its ending , when the movie is trying to be clever by trowing a couple of twists ( what else is new ? ) , which are just too far out there and don't work out well for the movie as a whole . 5ive / 10en
Incoherent mess .	This movie really feels like a incoherent mess . Couldn't they at least have tried to be original ? It's like Joe Eszterhas picked up his old " Basic Instinct " script and simply started changing some of the characters names and added or changed just some few situations . They pathetically tried to surprise the audience with some plot twist that you could see from miles away . Halfway trough the movie I already knew who the person was they were chasing . That means either two things ; I'm smart or the writer is just stupid , I think that the second one sounds more probable . And what was with the final plot twist at the end ? That really didn't made sense as did the entire movie that was just filled with some major plot holes . Also the style was very incoherent . Only the second half of the movie the movie gets a nice visual style with some good camera-work . Still the movie is perfectly watchable for one simple reason ; The car chases . The car chases and crashes are really spectacular like you could expect from director William Friedkin , the guy who brought us " The French Connection " . Although it is a bit strange that no matter how hard the cars crash into thing , in the next shot the car always looks tip-top again . Watchable but most certainly not recommendable soft-erotic / thriller .
Potentialless science-fiction / fantasy drivel .	This movie is a failed attempt to mix action with science-fiction and fantasy elements . The movie is just totally ridicules . The idea alone that a bunch of ancient dragons in the modern world set in the new apocalypse and destroyed all the cities and killing basically every person on Earth , is an highly unlikely one . A movie with an unlikely concept and premise is per definition an unlikely and far from believable or likable movie . In the end the movie is just as silly as it at first sight sounds , even for a genre movie like this one . Problem is that the movie is totally lacking in good suspenseful action sequences . The fact that the movie is lacking in good action and tension absolutely has something to do with it that the movie never gets believable enough . The post-apocalypse world the movie is set in feels like it comes straight out of " Waterworld " or " Mad Max " . It also doesn't exactly make the movie original although the premise in its core is of course definitely new and original . Also the fact that the story is rather simple makes that this movie feels far from original or likable enough . They didn't attempt to make the movie any more interesting by putting more meaningful plot lines in it . There are plenty of enough characters in the movie though to do something more interesting with , story-wise . It is definitely not the actor's fault that the characters don't work out . I mean when you've a cast with Christian Bale , Matthew McConaughey , Izabella Scorupco and Gerard Butler , you can't accuse the movie of bad acting but you can accuse it of having bad characters and dialog . The Christian Bale character is supposed to be the main character but his character remains so shallow and uninteresting that you never really ever care much about him . I think that it would had been way better if the main character was an heroic one . A real action-hero , also perhaps played by a more likely action-hero star . It ironically is Matthew McConaughey in his totally over-the-top tough guy role that delivers the best performance of the movie and also puts down the most interesting character . He perhaps plays the most fun role out of his career ( yet ) . The special effects are definitely not that bad but they way they are used are bad . Too many wide-shots and not enough close-ups . The movie could had also used way more sequences with the dragons in it and more action sequences in general . It would had made the movie at least more fun and interesting to watch . The dragons just don't feel as big destructive monsters in the movie , which also adds to the reason why the movie is lacking in good suspenseful or believable action . Further more the movie is definitely good looking with some good cinematography from Adrian Biddle and good looking sets and costumes . The directing is also quite good but it could had used more depth and creativity at times . Still I think that Rob Bowman should be given another chance , since he definitely has the potential as a director to make some good , fun but yet simple action , science-fiction and / or fantasy movies , one day . I wouldn't exactly recommend watching it , although it sure is still a watchable enough one . Maybe good enough to watch it just once . . .
Good Belgian humor , too bad about the story .	Yes , Belgian humor can be quite good ! This movie is the proof of this . Urbanus is a well known comedian and the really caries this movie . The jokes with him are done really well and even hilarious at times . It is too bad that the story brings down so much of the movie . The story feels only like a distraction from Urbanus good jokes ! That can't be a good thing of course . And is it me or is Bea Van Der Maet one hot Belgian chick ? Or it could be just the short tight dresses she is wearing throughout the movie . But she really is my type of girl ! It is too bad that she acts very uneven . At times she is very good but than on the other hand at times she acts extremely poorly . It was great to also see Jan Decleir in this , who is about the best actor Belgium ever had . It is too bad that his character is too small to add something to the movie . A movie with good jokes but with a poor story and a ridiculous ending .
Not that interesting .	Well , horror combined with western always sounds like an interesting and potentially effective combination to me but I'm still waiting for the perfect movie that is able to combine the two genres effectively and uses the best from both genres . It's the type of horror movie that implies more than that it actually shows . The danger of overdoing this is that it becomes totally ineffective after a while . This also happens with this movie . The movie also isn't being helped much by all of its other elements though . It's a very slow paced movie , that doesn't develop either its story or characters well enough . The story is kept very simple . Too simple . It relies purely on its main concept on a bunch of confederate soldier outlaws taking shelter in an old deserted house in the middle of nowhere , after they robbed the bank in a nearby town . Of course strange things start to happen in the house and people start to die under unusual circumstances , one by one . There isn't much else to the story really and the movie doesn't use any of its mystery , to strengthen its horror . It relies more on its dark atmosphere and slow pace but this rather makes the movie dull and uninteresting than original , scary and / or exciting really . The movie also keeps repeating itself too much with its story and scare moments . Also in the end the story , especially concerning its why's and how's are being left unanswered , which will leave you with an unsatisfying impression afterward . In these days of modern horror this movie simply doesn't stand out well enough . It doesn't come up with anything new and original and even as a standard generic movie this movie is too lacking to leave a significant enough impression . Yeah well , it's a good looking movie , that certainly doesn't have a cheap look over it , despite its low budget . It has a good , though formulaic , visual horror style . It's good looking with its effects , make-up and gore as well , though I need to say that the movie is unnecessary gory , at the totally wrong moments ( for example during the bank robbery ) . You also just never care enough about any of the characters within the movie , also since basically each of them are murdering thieves , that are not to be trusted in any way . The potentially best and most interesting characters of the movie are getting killed off at first , which is very typical . The movie does feature some good and also quite well known actors ( Henry Thomas , Mark Boone Junior , Isaiah Washington ) but they have basically very little interesting to do in this movie , due to its weak script . It's quite silly really once you start to think about it ; the characters can all basically leave at any given moment once the terrifying and unusual things start to happen and their buddies are disappearing without a trace but yet none of them thinks about leaving , until it's too late of course . Nothing too horrible , just too lacking and not interesting or refreshing enough as a modern genre movie .
A fantasy movie without real good fantasy .	Well , I'm sorry but no matter how much I expected myself to like this movie , I just didn't . No it's of course not like this is the worst movie I have ever seen but I was shocked at how poorly this movie actually was constructed . Problem is that the movie feels way too messy , especially with its fantasy elements thrown into the story . Quite frankly the movie simply featured some poor storytelling and this movie is simply not how a fantasy movie should be like . The movie tries hard to create a magical kind of atmosphere but instead the fantasy elements often feel awkward and way too sudden . Sometimes it doesn't even serve a purpose for the movie it's story . It's just not a movie that could grab me . The storytelling is too messy and certain story elements seem very random and don't really blend in with the rest of the movie . The characters are confusing as well . Perhaps it would had helped if the movie was closer to 3 hours long , rather than it's now almost 2 hours of running time . From a movie with a fantasy story such as this , also some more entertainment was to be expected . The movie only mildly entertains throughout but the movie just never becomes an awful lot of fun to watch , due to its story or fantasy elements . But it needs to be said that for a 1943 movie this is simply a great looking one . It used some unique coloring techniques , Agfacolor , which German film-makers used between 1939 and 1945 . It gives the movie an unique , very bright looking style . But also the sets and costumes are fine looking , though obviously deliberately fake looking as well at times . A movie that tries really very hard but in the end just isn't good and entertaining enough .
More lame than funny really .	I like Ben Stiller but seriously he should stop directing movies . The directing is really the weakest element of the movie and almost kills the fun entirely . Stiller also seems to be seriously obsessed with getting as many pointless close-ups of his wife Christine Taylor as possible . I mean she sure is pretty and all but it just gets distracting and annoying after a while . This is one of those movies that has hits and misses and when it hits , it doesn't hit hard . The humor is kind of lame and too over-the-top to be funny . This humor works for , as for instance Austin Powers but not for Derek Zoolander unfortunately . The movie never really becomes really funny , this is also due to the totally ridicules story . Still the movie makes some good fun of the modeling world at times and the small cameo's by the many famous people also makes this movie still somewhat entertaining to watch . The acting of especially the main characters played by Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson is good and is probably what prevents this movie from a completely unfunny and unwatchable one . All the characters are good and funny but unfortunately the script and directing is awful , so they don't get an awful lot to do in the movie . You are better of watching a different Ben Stiller movie , or an Austin Powers movie if you like silly modern humor .
Odd title , odd movie .	Not too sure what to think about this movie . It seems like its a spoof , of what , I do not know however . Perhaps of comic-book type of movies from the ' 80's , or adventurous serials from the ' 30's / 40's ? But then again there's the problem that the movie is not really funny and on top of that , also not so very well made . Guess the movie can best be seen as a cult-classic , for the fans of it . To be honest , the movie began well and promising . It developed some potentially interesting characters and plot lines but for some reason as the movie progresses they don't get handled well . The movie becomes more crazy and crazy as the movie heads toward the ending . At one point I even stopped caring and wanting to understand what the movie was all about . It was confusing , it was poor but above all it was odd . The movie could had been fun , the movie could had been action filled but yet it all isn't . It's wasted potential , cause I guess that in essence Buckaroo Banzai isn't really a bad fun movie main-hero . The movie is only fun now really with its character's names . All of the alien's their first name is John and they have names such as John Bigboote , John O'Connor and John Smallberries . But other than that , there isn't really much fun present in the movie . The many famous actors however still provide the movie with some fun and this uplifts the movie . Amazing how many great actors are in this movie such as Ellen Barkin , Jeff Goldblum , Christopher Lloyd , Clancy Brown , Ronald Lacey , Vincent Schiavelli and Dan Hedaya . John Lithgow is deliciously overacting as the movie its main villain but I just wish that he had more sequences and was made more interesting as a character . Peter Weller was a great leading man in the ' 80's and he shows with this movie how well he can carry a movie . The special effects are all decent for ' 80's standards but perhaps overused a bit too much . The musical score is typically ' 80's like and absolutely horrible . Further more the movie is fairly well looking , too bad inexperienced director W . D . Richter doesn't know how to use everything to its full potential . Yet it's not all that bad and the movie still entertains , so the movie obviously still has some redeeming qualities which makes this still a bit of a watchable movie .
Drama and horror don't mix .	The mix of drama and horror is unusually and unfortunately it doesn't work . Actually I think that the movie would have been quite good if it had just been an horror movie but for some strange reason there is more drama than horror in this movie and the drama elements are far from interesting or original . A shame . Still it is a worthy early effort from the now famous director Oliver Stone . The movie has it's moments and it's nice to see some of the style that Oliver Stone also used in his later better known movies , in a way that makes it a must see for the Oliver Stone fans . Far from good but also far from bad . Only recommendable for the Stone fans .
Typical simple British humor that you'll either love or hate .	I guess this third ' on the buses ' movie is a typical case of you either love this movie or you totally hate it . The humor is typical British , far from subtle , very sexist and incredibly simple and predictable . If you're into this sort of early ' 70's British humor , this movie will be a simple pleasure to watch . Everyone else is probably better off avoiding this movie . I for one found the humor enjoyable but really , it really is purely a matter of taste , more than anything else . To me it the humor is comedy in its purest form , from the early decades of the 20th century , when film was a new medium , only set in a ' 70's time-frame . The situations are all very simple and predictable . Everything that can go wrong goes wrong . The story is non-present , or at least not the most important element of the movie . This is comedy in its most simple and perhaps also purest form . But no , that of course does not guarantee a good movie as well . " Holiday on the Buses " its simple humor certainly entertained me and kept sure that I was enjoying the movie but with my brains switched off , obviously . This movie really doesn't have the most subtle or well thought out humor in it . The movie has a very overly present sexist undertone , in which all the woman are basically portrayed as lust-objects . The sort of Benny Hill kind of humor . All of the moments are also terribly simple and predictable but yet you still laugh at them since it simply is too ridicules and over-the-top all to not to do so . Still " Holiday on the Buses " still work completely successful as a comedy since it lacks one important fundamental thing ; Good main characters . The main characters in this movie are dirty , not so good looking old men . How are we supposed to like or feel for any of them or even sympathize for them ? Because of this , the movie often falls flat as a comedy . It makes the movie its humor even more cruel and perhaps even offensive by todays standards . No way a movie like this could or would be made this present day . Only for the most hardened fans of British humor . Everyone else , just skip it .
Doesn't really deserve to be called a British comedy .	Of course I'm fond of British humor and comedies but problem with this movie is that it's a British comedy that tries to be like an American Hollywood teenage comedy , filled with all of the usual clichés . The movie is about two extreme teenage losers , played by a couple of actors who are closer to their forties than their teens , who are desperately looking for sex . Sounds familiar ? Of course it does ! It's basically the subject that got handled in many different teenage comedies before . Maybe with as one big difference that " Kevin & Perry Go Large " goes way more over-the-top . I must say that the fact that the movie and it's humor is so extremely lame and over-the-top , makes the movie actually still somewhat watchable . It's a movie that's mostly embarrassing to watch but because of it's extreme lameness also becomes strangely entertaining to watch still . It's by no means a great made movie though . The directing and storytelling is really severely lacking at times . Who knows , maybe , just maybe the movie would had been a better one to watch with a more experienced movie comedy director at the helm . At times the story just really doesn't flow and some plot elements and characters just don't work out because of that . Perhaps the funniest thing about this movie still remains that one of the male losers characters is not being played by a male but in fact by a woman . Quite amusing once you figure this out or learn about this afterward . Who did they do this ? I really wouldn't know . Probably they had difficulties finding two ugly enough male actors to play the role rightfully , so they casted a woman in the part instead . And seriously , what's with all these comedies lately that are making fun of Germans ? Not that I mind , since I always find this very amusing but it just seems odd that this is mostly a thing that's something of these past 10 years . Some other recent examples of this are " Dodgeball : A True Underdog Story " , " Balls of Fury " and I'm of course forgetting many more . Seems like something that only got featured before in Mel Brooks movie but recently has become a really popular issue again . A just still mildly amusing movie because of its silliness .
Enjoyable enough but nothing too remarkable .	Basically this is a watchable enough movie that however as a comedy is too lacking in humor and it suffers from some poor character treatment . It's by no means an horrible movie but it's one of those movies that make you wonder why it was made in the first place . The movie as a whole makes a pointless and redundant impression , especially when considering that this is a remake as well , of a 1950 , multiple Oscar nominated , movie . It's not a comedy with over-the-top humor or characters are comical situations . Instead its humor is more subtle with as a result that this movie doesn't provide one big laugh . The humor lacks some real creativity , even though the actors try really hard to make the humor still work . Without the fine actors the movie really would had been a lesser one . John Goodman , Melanie Griffith , Don Johnson and Fred Dalton Thompson are all fine actors . They still give the movie some flair and joy . However their characters don't really work out as good as they could had been . Griffith's and Johnson's roles are too blank and boring . Almost as if they were holding back . John Goodman's character is a hard one to understand . It's unclear whether the movie makers wanted to make him look sympathetic or like a ruthless hard corrupt business man . You don't know if you're supposed to like or hate him , which also does provide the movie with some uneven moments . Some serious poor character treatment if you ask me . But despite all its flaws , this movie still remains a perfectly watchable one . After all it's not a movie that will bore you to death or will make you cringe . However it's also a movie that you can easily do without seeing it .
Why isn't this movie any better ?	With all these great classic characters , how come this movie isn't that much good ? Yeah , well sure the movie offers decent enough entertainment but really , in its core this movie had far more potential . It features many classic characters everyone all over the world has heard of . Allan Quatermain , Captain Nemo , Mina Harker , The Invisible Man , Dorian Gray , Tom Sawyer , Dr . Henry Jekyll / Edward Hyde , all put together in one movie . It sounds like enough material to make an entertaining adventurous movie with . The movie is however seriously flawed with its story and character treatment and though its entertaining , it at the same time is a rather disappointing movie . The story is very messy . The reason for this is probably the fact that the movie is filled with so many characters ( yes , yes , I know that the movie is based on a comic book and therefor they couldn't do much about it . ) . Halve of them really don't serve a significant enough part in the movie . Seriously , what are Mina Harker and Tom Sawyer doing in this ? Especially the villainous plot of the movie is very shaky and far from interesting or completely understandable , though it really should be , since it's what the movie is all about . The movie tries to put in some clever ' twists ' and ' turns ' that just don't work out due to the fact that the story is a far from likable or interesting one . It's one of those movies you just couldn't care less about the story . I can't say I was happy about the casting either . Naseeruddin Shah plays Captain Nemo about as boring as possible . Somehow I have the feeling that the writers didn't intended the character to be that way . And who's bright idea was it to cast Peta Wilson as Mina Harker ? And really , Sean Connery is really too old by now to still play a heroic main character convincingly . Richard Roxburgh is still somewhat good in his role , too bad that his character isn't that very interesting . The action in this movie is pretty big and good looking but it all feels very random . This is due to the poor storytelling , that never ever really gets to flow well enough to consider the movie to be greatly compelling - or even entertaining . Guess that the movie is sort of like " Van Helsing " . It also puts many different well known characters in the movie , with as a result that the movie feels too crowded and messy . The movie tries to achieve way too much but doesn't succeed in halve of it . The movie has a good visual style and some impressive looking sets and costumes . At times the special effects are also impressive but at other moments they're very poorly done . In essence the movie had far more potential really . Will I give a sequel a chance ? It probably will never get made but I'm willing to give at a chance at success , as long as they've learned from the mistakes they made with this movie . In its core the stories and characters show some really good potential to make some good looking and entertaining movies with . Maybe just good - and entertaining enough to watch it just once .
I can appreciate a good drama but this movie simply isn't good .	" The Champ " is a completely over the top over-dramatized production that might be emotional for some but horrible for others , especially for movie critics . The movie starts off very slow and to be honest quite boring . After the first half hour the movie gets a bit better and more interesting to watch but after that the movie becomes extremely over the top dramatized and just when the movie starts to be interesting and the drama more believable , the movie suddenly focuses on Billy Flynn's boxing match instead of the drama . I liked the boxing match , I liked it a lot but it simply didn't fitted in the context of the movie . The relationship between the three main characters is done really well thanks to the good script . Jon Voight and Faye Dunaway are good actors however they seem to have been miss casted and both don't seem to be happy in their role and Rick Schroder who is now better know for his role in " NYPD Blue " gives a good lesson in overacting . All in all , a drama not worth seeing .
Watchable but just not among the best recent sport comedies .	Sport comedies recently really have become popular again , with movies such as " Dodgeball : A True Underdog Story " , " Blades of Glory " , " Talladega Nights : The Ballad of Ricky Bobby " and " Balls of Fury " . Some of them are great while others are just pretty lame . I'm afraid this movie is one of the latter ones . It's so easy to make fun of the ' 70's in comedies . This movie uses basically all of the clichés existing regarding the ' 70's . The movie comically only mainly purely relies on the fact that it is being set on the ' 70's . It relies a bit too much on it , since it alone just not enough to make a good and funny comedy with . It's also getting a bit old , comedies that are making fun of the ' 70's . Writer Scot Armstrong also already did it before for the movie " Starsky & Hutch " , which worked out still much better . Yes , of course it has some moments but it's one of those movies that has more misses than hits comedy-wise . But a bigger problem is perhaps the movie its story . It's such a simplistic , weak and formulaic written movie . It's also as if the story is being completely forgotten at times and the movie only serves as a medium for Will Ferrell to deliver as many funny moments as possible . Perhaps this is also due to the fact that Kent Alterman is still unexperienced as a director and this was actually his first directing job for a motion picture . He used to work before with Ferrell as an executive producer on the movie " Elf " . Still it's Will Ferrell who keeps the movie watchable and mostly fun to watch . This is a real Will Ferrell movie , which however also means that all of the other characters and actors are being pushed completely to the background . Even actors such as Woody Harrelson and Maura Tierney . Yes , they are in the movie but the movie basically would had been just as good with other , less known , actors in their roles , since this movie really basically is all about Will Ferrell . What's even the point of their roles really ? So in a way Ferrell is both a strong as well as a weak point of the movie . Still of course the movie remains perfectly watchable for the fans of him . It has entertainment value but not really a sport comedy I would recommend .
What happened to the show element ?	It all began so well with Billy Crystal's amazing opening number but after that nothing spectacular happened . What happened to all the musical and dance numbers the Oscar ceremony always used to had ? And as for the awards , nothing unexpected happened and it wasn't even tense since all the winners were already as good as known weeks before the ceremony . The only category that was tense was the one for best performance by an actor in a leading role . Bill Murray and Sean Penn were favorites but there also was a chance for Johnny Depp to win . Sean Penn won and most likely he deserved it to win and oh boy , Bill Murray looked mad and disappointing . Billy Crystal responded brilliantly with saying : Common Bill we love you ! And he was right at that . Anyway Bill Murray deserved to win an Oscar years ago for his role in " Rushmore " but that's a whole other issue . I just hope he will get nominated again . No doubt that he then will win his long deserved Oscar . And then the big winner of the night : " The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King " . It won 11 Oscars , in other words it won everything it was nominated for . Finally justice will most people say but as a movie critic you can hardly call it justice . Sure I understand why it won , it was a tribute to the ending of one of the best trilogy's in movie history and a compensation for the last two years when the previous two movie hardly won any Oscar's of importance . But I don't think it's really fair to give just only the last movie all the awards , they should have awarded all the three movies since they are all part of a trilogy that should be seen as one big whole movie . And really did they have to win really every award they were nominated for ? It wasn't really fair and it didn't do any justice to all the other movies that were nominated and it surely didn't do any good to the tension but at least the fans are happy now . The presenters were nothing special this year , except for Robin Williams and Adrien Brody that were at least a bit interesting . The " thanks speeches " were as always not interesting and nobody even cried although some came close to . But at least there was luckily hardly anything political said . All in all ; nothing spectacular or exciting this year . And thank God that " Lord of the Rings " will not be a contestant next year ! The only reason why it was watchable was because of Billy Crystal , the " in memoriam sequences " and the honorary award for Blake Edwards who in my opinion really deserved it .
Fairly dull ' 70's romp , made worthwhile by George C . Scott .	This is a fairly dull typical ' 70's movie that tries to be more than it really is . Problem is that there isn't much interesting ever happening in this movie , with also an unnecessary and also far from believable love triangle story in it . Hard to imaging that George C . Scott and Trish Van Devere actually got married one year later , after this movie . The movie movie clearly lacks a good main plot line and gets mostly carried purely by George C . Scott's performance . In this movie George C . Scott once more shows his talent , by giving away one fine performance . But no matter how good he is in his role , he still feels miscast . Even though Scott was ' only ' 44 at the time , he already looked far too old for his role , to consider him really believable . George C . Scott just wasn't an actor who aged really well . When he was 40 he already looked like he was 60 years old . The rest of the cast consists out of insignificant actors , who show why they never broke through as actors . At times the movie still is a typical ' 70's movie , with a good atmosphere and way of storytelling . Yet the movie doesn't always feel coherent , since its good at some times and completely dull and uninteresting to follow at others . It perhaps has to do with the fact that famed director John Huston walked from the movie after having heated arguments with George C . Scott over some script changes . Only a typical ' 70's car chase is good enough to grab your attention for a short while but the movie swiftly becomes less exciting and more dull after that again . The movie really could had used some more action and at least more speed at times . The movie tries hard to be in the same style as some old classic ' 40's but neither the script nor characters allow this movie to ever get close . The movie should had sticked more to its own style and time period . Really only worth watching because of George C . Scott .
Unsuccesful and above all unsatisfying genre attempt .	Director Val Guest got his fame for directing horror / science-fiction movies in the ' 50's . His movies never have really been the greatest but they were decent enough genre pieces , that are also quite well known , all over the world . With comedies he just never received much fame or praise and for a good reason , also especially when you look at this film . Though the right intentions are definitely there , this just isn't a good enough genre movie . The movie is obviously trying to be a light entertaining espionage movie , perhaps even a genre spoof - and cold war spoof at times . The movie as a whole just isn't light enough in its settings and events to consider this really an entertaining movie , that doesn't successfully parodies or even entertains enough . The movie works in parts as a comedy and entertainment , especially in the beginning but its many more weaker moments really downgrade the movie and in parts even makes it a totally unwatchable and bad one . The movie has a main plot line but it almost seemed as if they simply shot the movie as it was on the call-sheets , without paying much attention to development . Because of that the movie also becomes mostly uninteresting to watch and the events in the movie almost impossible to follow or care for . The movie its main problem is really how poorly developed it is . Also with its seemingly important characters in the movie , that come and go and never get properly introduced or developed . The movie has further more a great cast , filled with mostly some of the best British actors from its period . It are the sort of actors you perhaps not know by name but definitely by face . Of course David Niven is well known and he carries the movie well with his role and he also proofs how well he can handle the comedy genre but no matter how great he is , he feels out of place nevertheless , mostly due to his age . He just doesn't seem believable enough as a spy who gets the girls and charms his way through things . The movie is shot at some nice far off locations but still the movie feels very low-budget . This is also due to some incredibly lame and fake looking miniature effects . Pay especially attention toward the ending when a character is jumping from a riding plane . Not a complete train-wreck but not exactly a movie worth searching out either .
Incoherent movie .	" Mission to Mars " is far from a good movie but it's hard to say what it is that makes this movie a not so good one . It probably is due to the incoherent feeling of the movie . Most of the scene's and moments don't really feel connected and the movie feels like several separate scene's , simply glued together . The movie does has some good and powerful moments but because of the incoherent feeling of the scene's all together , the movie never truly works out as it was supposed to and the ending leaves a bad aftertaste . The movie has some truly excellent actors in it ; Gary Sinise , Don Cheadle , Connie Nielsen , Tim Robbins , Armin Mueller-Stahl . Those are some big names ! Every actor does really well in this movie and gives a truly excellent performance . The movie is professionally made . The movie is visually good looking and has some nicely looking special effects in it , even though they are a bit over-the-top at times . The are some typical trademark Brian De Palma tense moments in the movie but even those moments don't work out fully an 100 % . De Palma fans will be disappointed . Ennio Morricone delivers a really great musical score for this movie . It's both dramatic and heroic and is truly a pleasure to listen to . It sounds strange but I think that Morricone is really underrated as an artist . Most people will only know him for his Western score's but Morricone has really delivered some memorable and under-appreciated score's in his lifetime such as ; " The Mission " , " In the Line of Fire " , " The Untouchables " and many more . " Mission to Mars " is another of his under-appreciated score's . It truly is a soundtrack worth owning . From a technical point of view there is little wrong with the movie but it is the incoherent storytelling that makes " Mission to Mars " a failed mission . The scene's don't always feel connected and also the ending can't be called entirely satisfying . Also story-wise the movie doesn't always make completely sense and there are some implausibilities at times . Still fans of the science-fiction genre will find some joy in this movie . It really isn't a THAT bad movie and at times it also is a really entertaining one . It's just that the bad story and storytelling completely ruin all the movie its potential . It's still a watchable movie but I simply can not recommend it wholeheartedly .
Just one of those Italian " Cannibal Holocaust " - wannabees .	" Cannibal Holocaust " really spawned a whole bunch of cannibal movies during the ' 80's . Of course all these type of movies are more or less the same but this movie doesn't even try to be original or hide that it was heavily inspired by " Cannibal Holocaust " and uses lots of elements from the successful " Cannibal Holocaust " but it doesn't really succeed with any of its elements as well as " Cannibal Holocaust " did . The story , settings and atmosphere are all very uninvolved feeling . The movie features lots of random sequences , mostly which feature real animal killings . You're just waiting for the first killing to occur but it actually takes quite awhile for the cannibal themes of the movie kick in . The story wastes too much time on building up stuff that just isn't interesting . It develops its characters but what do we care , since we know that most of them are probably going to die soon anyway . Besides , they are not being played by very great actors , to put it mildly . But once the cannibalism kicks in the movie becomes quite good . It becomes an entertaining movie , that of course also features lots of graphic sequences , though it never feels as anything too shocking , since the movie doesn't really feel involving in any way . The movie also made an odd choice to feature also quite some sequences set in New York , at several points in the movie . It's really distracting for the movie and doesn't work well for the pace . The movie has too many slow points and its gore / horror is not quite enough to uplift the movie to great heights . Yet it's also far from the worst genre movie I've seen . Even though the quality of the directing and such isn't always top-notch , it's a well enough put together movie that features ingredients to please the genre fans , even though they will also probably be disappointed by the fact that this movie wasn't trying to be a bit more original of its own . Entertaining but not really pleasing enough .
The voice cast can't save this weak movie .	The movie has an excellent voice cast and some well placed jokes but it can't save this weak movie . The biggest problem is the absurd story . but i's not only the story itself that is weak but also the beyond believe action that even for an animated movie is way too much over the top . It seems like the creators abandoned all logic . A disturbing thing were the totally unnecessary computer animations , it simply didn't blended in with the normal animations and on top of that ; it didn't looked very convincing . And about the animation itself ; it was nothing new or special . But the movie is far from bad . It has some extremely well placed and funny jokes and the characters are excellent and so is the voice cast , especially Joseph Fiennes was great . Further more there are some nice scene's that are also very original and worth remembering . The music from Harry Gregson-Williams was also highly enjoyable . A weak movie but it has some nice elements in it .
It was fun !	Difference with other Ed Wood movies is that Eddy didn't took this project very serious . He puts in some jokes and some of the dialog even manages to be funny at times . A big accomplishment for the worst screen writer of movie history . The acting was really laughable and the story makes absolutely no sense . " Necromania " mixes porn with horror and the end result actually is pretty fun to watch . Most certainly not Wood his worst . The music really is something that made me laugh . It sounds like it was directly taken from an old Wood movie from the 50's and was just plain odd to listen to , especially with the images with it . It's a typical 70 porn movie meaning that it features lot's of hair and sideburns . Judging by all the other comments here , most people have seen the R-rated version , I've actually seen the X-rated version but seriously the X-rated version also isn't exactly something that will make you warm . The movie is just more fun than anything to watch and absolutely most certainly not Wood's worst .
It falls flat as an entertaining and ambitious movie .	" Timeline " is a movie that sounds good on paper but as a movie it falls flat . This is due to several reasons of which the cast and the script are a few . I really enjoy time travel movies in which 2 different cultures and times collapse . It's always good for some entertainment and an imaginative story . Than how comes " Timeline " doesn't work as entertainment ? Well , mainly because it's simply not entertaining . From a director like Richard Donner you should and could expect some more entertainment and fun . The movie takes itself very serious , which makes the story uninteresting and at times also hard to follow . Basically the movie is about the British and French fighting each other , without us ever fully understanding why , or caring about it . The story had all the potential of becoming a sort of new ' Indiana Jones ' like adventure movie but unfortunately the end result is far from that . At times the story gets incredibly lame and predictable . The movie is terribly miscast . Basically all of the archaeological roles , are terribly miscast and no one is believable enough in their roles . There are some good actors in this movie but they are however not suited for their roles in this movie . Because of the odd casting choices , we also never really get to care , or know the characters well enough . The movie also lacks a good real main villain , with some clear motivations . In a time when we are accustomed to movie fights like in " Gladiator " or the Lord of the Rings movies , you have to come to the simple conclusion that the fight sequences in " Timeline " are a disappointment . The scene's are relatively cheap looking and lack a sense of scale . The movie isn't bad looking and there are still some good scene's though . Also the musical score by Brian Tyler was a good one , even though I would had still prefer Jerry Goldsmith of course . Not entertaining enough and the story and characters fully prevent this movie from being a good one .
Even Cleese can't make this movie a memorable one .	" Clockwise " is a very forgettable movie with only one plus and that one plus is comical genius John Cleese . Even though Cleese makes this movie definitely a watchable one , he can't help to make this movie to be a memorable one . This is not Cleese's fault but the fault of director Christopher Morahan , who obviously isn't the director with the most talent in the business . The movie is very simply made and relies too much on the presence of Cleese . The rest of the characters , who definitely had some comical potential are ignored at too many points in the movie and therefore become completely unnecessary , distracting and perhaps even annoying , especially the three old ladies . Also the technical aspects of the movie are disappointing . The camera work is awfully simple and the camera positions are just plain bad at times . The story really isn't that bad and had quite some potential , however director Christopher Morahan didn't used the nice comical script to the maximum . The end result is a still watchable but certainly not memorable or recommendable comedy-movie . The movie has some laughs and it does has it moments but still it is a somewhat disappointing movie . Perhaps only true Cleese fans will find some joy in watching this movie but I'm sure that even they will be disappointed with this movie . As a Cleese fan you are of course way better of watching " Fawlty Towers " or the movie " A Fish Called Wanda " . You are better of watching another comical movie , still the movie is a watchable one for on a rainy afternoon .
Too many genres mixed together .	The mix of horror , thriller , spectacular science fiction and realistic science-fiction is not balanced very well and makes it confusing to see what you are actually watching . The movie is interesting in the beginning but after about an hour the movie goes wild and all of the sudden we get a whole different story and movie . I don't blame the directing , I blame the story . The movie also leaves more question than answers . And what was Morgan Freeman doing in this ? Don't be fooled people , his role is actually a fairly small one . Come to think of it , his role was an totally unnecessary one . Also Tom Sizemore seemed to be walking around in this movie without having any idea what he was doing . The movie had quite some potential but the execution of it is sloppy . The movie also fails to get scary and tense , instead the scene's get more comical in a way . Even though the movie is about 135 minutes long , it still feels short and very rushed , probably because there are too many story lines going on at once . Also the ending was quite disappointing . Certainly watchable because of the directing , cinematography , special effects and soundtrack but it's not a must see .
Great animations but falls way too short as a movie .	I never was too anxious about seeing this movie . I mean , an animated movie about horses ? Nevertheless I still decided to give this movie a shot , since it visually looked fine and the musical score by Hans Zimmer was just great . The end result was sort of relieving but also disappointing . The time that big animated movies only got made at the Disney studios are far in the past . DreamWorks Animation proved with its past movies " The Prince of Egypt " and " The Road to El Dorado " before that it could make good animated movies with an own style and aimed toward a different public the Disney movies always got aimed at . Nevertheless they sort of go into the more mainstream direction with " Spirit : Stallion of the Cimarron " . It follows the safe and usual formulaic road of an animated movie , that is predictable in almost every way possible . The movie is wonderfully animated and visually there is a lot to enjoy while watching this movie . Unfortunately the story is not doing much justice to its animations , or better said the way the story is told and progresses . Thing is that the movie its story just never could interest me . It also lacked a clear main plot-line and didn't seemed to have the right proper character treatment in it . You just never care about the characters and you're never frightened by the villains because just non of them are properly developed . The movie often repeats itself throughout and the action / chases and all are just more of the same the whole time . Spirit is really lacking a spirit . And its getting kind of annoying seeing animals all the time reacting and thinking as humans , in order for the viewer to be able to bond with the animal characters . Positive thing is that it was a good move not to give the animals human voices . The images and interactions between the animals speak for themselves and you always understand them , though like I just said before , it's kind of annoying that they are doing this in a more human behavioral way . The musical score nevertheless still brings some life to the movie and often its action . The music is so loud during some sequences that you can't help being blown - and carried away by it . It's yet another fine musical score by Hans Zimmer , who also did the music for previous DreamWorks animated movies . There are also some songs being sung by Bryan Adams but those songs are mostly blah and predictable sounding nonsense . Guess they tried to achieve the same thing Disney's " Tarzan " achieved by using Phill Collins , as a sort of singing narrator and describing character's thoughts and emotions . Didn't quite work out though . Still somewhat watchable for the movie its visuals but it's not a movie that shall leave an awfully big impression on you .
Just one of those pointless sequels that adds nothing .	It's not an horrible movie but it surely is a pointless one . Compared to the first movie this one adds very little new and originality . Seems like the only reason why they put Natasha Henstridge in this movie was to connect this movie with the first one . Her character is a totally better one this time and quite frankly I think the movie and particularly its story would had been better off without it . It would had also made this movie more fresh and original to watch . 2 other actors from the fist movie also re-appear in this one ; Michael Madsen and Marg Helgenberger . Michael Madsen is basically always awesome to watch in any movie and any type of role he plays . He is a pleasant addition to this movie , even though of course its far from his best movie role , which is also due to its silly script and poor dialog . The chemistry he had with Helgenberger in the first movie is also completely gone in this movie . Seriously the writing of this movie is so lazy . Her we have an alien that is being hunted down , who is inside the body of the first man who walked on Mars . That makes him about the number one most famous face of the world , yet he can walk around freely and the military and all secret agencies have a hard time tracking them down . Really not the most believable and likely plot premise . The movie is filled with some other holes and big improbabilities . There also are some new characters appearing in this movie , not played by the least actors . Mykelti Williamson , George Dzundza and James Cromwell are some well known names . There also is a quite nice little cameo by Richard Belzer as the U . S . president , which is quite fun if you know Richard Belzer . Unfortunately none of the great actors can really spice up the movie its script . The movie obviously had a lesser budget to spend this time . At times the movie even looks like a made-for-TV movie , which also might be due to the fact that director Peter Medak has a lot of experience with TV movie and not as much with big theatrical movies , even though he is capable of something better . Just watch the 1980 horror movie " The Changeling " . Despite that all , the movie its effects are all quite nice looking and the movie also has some good looking gore to shock with . What the movie is lacking though is its good eerie atmosphere of the first movie . It also makes " Species II " a less effective movie to watch . Also having a male alien this means a less seductive and therefore at the same time also less interesting movie to watch . It has some good elements and nice moments but basically you overall are better off by just sticking to the original .
If this is a comedy than were is the humor ?	Are you guys kidding me ? What's up with all the positive reviews on here . I enjoy watching old movies but you have to give credit where it is due and this movie does certainly not deserve all of that praising . It's a very simple made little movie . The story is incredibly simple and is not really heading anywhere . It's unclear to me what this movie is trying to be ; A comedy , a romantic movie or an adventurous one . The movie mixes many of all those elements and the end result is a mixed bag of a movie with an awkward love-story , sporadic action and a vague main plot line . This is really one of those movies that is heading nowhere and makes a pointless impression . Perhaps if the movie had a more clear main plot line and other small things , such as perhaps a more villainous opposite character , the movie would at least had been more interesting to watch . The movie mostly relies on its love-story but it is a rather awkward one , that is far from credible or likable . It tries to be original but ends up being annoying instead . The fun characters are about the only redeeming quality of this movie . They still make sure that the movie is a light and fun one to watch . The main character , played by Robert Taylor , is also quite good and enjoyable . A sort of Indiana Jones like character set in the Wild West . Not as good obviously but certainly comparable . Certainly not unwatchable but far from a good - or even interesting one to watch .
Watchable but I can't think of any reason why you should watch this movie .	This movie really had the potential in it to become one of my favorite movies ; Horror and Nazi's . I always found this combination to be an intriguing one and I in general always enjoy and admire movies that try to combine several different elements such as different genre combinations and time period combinations . Plus I like watching movies with Nazi's in it ( OK that sounded just wrong ) because they're basically the ultimate movie villains . The movie is from a period when the WW II genre was hot and popular again . A period that was launched by the success and critical acclaim of Steven Spielberg's " Saving Private Ryan " . This movie is just like any other genre movie that tried to gain some money after that success . The movie lacks in basically everything ; tension , mystery , character development , plot . On top of that the movie is obviously also made with a low-budget , which really shows on screen . The concept of the movie sounds good enough for a scary , tense and atmospheric horror movie . The movie is perhaps more atmospheric than anything else but this just isn't enough in this case , since the movie builds up and builds up to basically nothing . Nothing extraordinary , tense or even mysterious ever really occurs in this movie , which is of course a huge miss and rather weird and disappointing to watch . The movie has some good actors in it but none really shine in this movie . The characters remain too flat for that and the movie has too many characters in it and lacks a good - and likable main character . And yes it's definitely a bit weird to see some ' British-as-they-can-get ' actors play a couple of Nazi's . As a matter of fact is there any reason that the characters in this movie are Nazi's , rather than British or American soldiers ? As the movie progresses it becomes obvious why ; they did it because the characters in the movie are far from good guys , as strongly becomes obvious at the end and with the help of some flashbacks . Having Americans , British or any other allied group as the main characters would had been far too sensitive and would had aroused far more criticism and controversy . It's definitely not an unwatchable movie but I just can't think of any reason why anyone should ever watch this movie .
And I was expecting a fun comedy .	The movie was pretty disappointing . I never expected great things from it but it always looked to me like a fun and entertaining movie and most reviews also indicated this . The movie unfortunately comical wise has more misses than hits in it . Yes , its still a movie that has its moments and provides some entertainment . It's a movie that will make you laugh , almost guaranteed a couple of times but unfortunately most of the jokes are extremely lame and just totally predictable as well . The movie is just being too formulaic at times , despite having a good original and promising premise . It's a movie with lots of characters and big actors in it but it are the cameos and the performances from the non-comical actors are the most fun ones . Actors such as Ray Liotta , John C . McGinley , Peter Fonda and principal actors William H . Macy and John Travolta . Martin Lawrence never is really funny as a main lead but when he plays a secondary character or the main lead next to another big actor ( like in " Bad Boys " with Will Smith ) he is simply good and also funny . Same in this movie goes for Tim Allen . I'm not a too big fan of him but I could certainly stand him in this movie . I wished the movie had some more story though . It could had been a movie filled with life lessons but it's a pretty empty movie with its themes . There are some real missed opportunities here . The movie its story is just basically one big road-trip , with new adventures and characters around every corner but it's just not as fun as it sounds though . It's too simplistic and rather pointless . The movie even sends out wrong messages at times , that makes you think why did they ever put it in there . Just not the good fun movie that I expected .
A bad film but still with some good humor .	I don't think " Men in Black III " will ever be made . . . and after seeing " Men in Black II " I can't say that I'm sad about that . The first " Men in Black " already wasn't exactly a masterpiece but at least it had some fun moments and was original . I think that the originality is the main problem with this movie . Once you have seen " Men in Black " this movie can only be disappointing since it adds nothing as a movie . But a just as big problem is the story . It really is one of the weakest stories of 2002 . The movie is very simply and quite frankly it doesn't always make sense especially the horrible ending which I hate with a passion . However just like the first movie this one is also fun and has some good moments but unlike " Men in Black " it also has some very bad and unfunny moments . Wil Smith and Tommy Lee Jones are really the two highlights of the movie . The both are wonderful together once again . Also Michael Jackson shows up in a fun cameo and Tony Shalhoub reprises his role as Jeebs but it once again is Frank the Pug that steals the show . Just as in the first movie the special effects and most of the make-up are just plain horrible . They look so fake , I don't know was it intentional ? Either way I just can't like it . Lara Flynn Boyle is terrible as the main villain , for once I can fully agree with Razzie Awards for giving her a nomination . Johnny Knoxville is a waste of talent , he actually has lot's of potential as a comedy actor but his talent is truly wasted in this movie and his character is even irritating at points . About Rosario Dawson I also can't say much positive . . . Her character was irritating me and there was no chemistry between her and Will Smith . Believe me , there are some good moments in this movie and I laughed more than once it's just that there are so many things wrong with this movie and the movie leaves an overall pointless impression .
Incredibly bad movie gets uplifted by its performances .	In all fairness , this is one totally bad straight-to-video looking B-flick , that gets only made worthwhile by its amazing cast and performances . This movie is a good example of how not to tell a story . Halve way through the movie we still have no idea of what's going on and what the main plot line is and who wants what . And while the first halve of the movie focuses mainly on Elias Koteas , the second halve is all about Christopher Walken , Christopher Walken and Christopher Walken . Not that I mind though , it just makes the storytelling pretty incoherent . On top of that it's not like the story itself is also actually much special . Like I said , it takes too long for things to finally really start off and when it does it's just mostly disappointing . I mean , it's about the second battle in heaven but yet all we get to see is Christopher Walken against occasionally a different angel . You can say that this movie is a bit of a lackluster . All the more reason why this is obviously a B-movie . Also thing with this movie is , is that it's really made as a B-movie , so with bad and predictable editing and camera-work . And director Gregory Widen must have really counted his blessings when he learned that all those fine actors agreed to appear in this movie , since he himself obviously is not the most talented director around . So the movie gets only mainly purely uplifted by its actors . I just can't believe how many fine actors there are in this movie . This is of course one big fun role from Christoper Walken , who plays the fallen angel Gabriel . It's a delicious fun villainous role , with which he obviously can go over the top with at times . I'm not really accustomed to seeing Elias Koteas play a big role but he is a capable actors so he definitely pulls it off alright . Besides that the movie also features Virginia Madsen , Eric Stoltz , Viggo Mortensen , Amanda Plummer and Adam Goldberg . What a cast list ! Although yes it's true that most of them at the time were still fairly much unknown actors but that doesn't make them any less good to watch in this movie . I can't really say that the " The Prophecy " is a recommendable movie , although when you watch it you'll probably enjoy it for its acting . I can't believe they made 4 more sequels for this movie !
Thank goodness western-comedies are a rare thing .	There are tons of comedies made every year . Not too many of them are about the old west It's also not a mix that really ever works out , without becoming a spoof of the genre and use all of its formulaic elements . The story seems to lack a clear purpose . It's hard to say what the movie is really about and were its heading to . One top of that , things just don't ever flow well in the movie . Everything seems to happen suddenly and without a reason for the rest of the story . On its comical level its also a rather weak one . For a comedy it surely has some few real laughs . It's one of those comedies that keeps you waiting for a punch-line that just never comes . On top of that the situations in this movie just aren't humorous . Guess they thought that the movie would already be strong and funny enough by making it a buddy-flick , about an old bandit and a mute bandit-wannabe . Paul Hogan isn't too bad in this movie , although he was clearly far too old for his role at the time . He provides the movie with its best comical moments and some good funny dialog . The Cuba Gooding Jr . character is a bit of a weird one . He's a mute who works at a store and he obviously feel that he is above the simple town-folk and then for some unexplained reasons decides to become a bandit and team-up with , the obviously incapable , bandit Lightning Jack Kane . It also makes you wonder what's the challenging thing for a character to play a mute character . Cuba Gooding Jr . really isn't a bad actors but he too often appears in such weak movies and uninteresting comical roles , that it makes you wonder why he keeps doing it . Guess that he just has fun playing in these type of movies . I'm happy that at least someone had fun . Pat Hingle is also in this movie , in a typical Pat Hingle role . Too bad that they didn't gave his character more screen time , though they potentially really could had done that . The movie is rather good looking and it doesn't look like some cheap attempt . The costume were especially nice . The musical score on the other hand didn't seemed fitting . It's one of those simplistic scores that sound as if it was completed months before the movie finished shooting and therefor doesn't fit or add anything to the images . Has its moments but overall a below average and totally uninteresting comedy attempt .
A comedy short that's about nothing really .	This early silent comedy short seems like a completely pointless one . It has got a very weak and simple story , that doesn't even feature good comical moments and a weird ending . The movie features most of the cast members of the 1915 movie-serial " Les Vampires " , also directed by Louis Feuillade . It's perhaps the only redeeming quality of this movie . René Poyen plays the comical character Bout-de-Zan again and the main role is being portrayed by Marcel Lévesque , who certainly had a great talent for comedy , although that doesn't completely fully shows in this movie . The movie is just plain weird and halve of the time you really don't understand what is going on , or what the movie is even about . It took me awhile before I understood who all the characters were and what they were doing . The movie tries too hard to be funny with as a result that the humor in it feels very forced , which causes it to be not funny and it just doesn't work out . Toward the ending the movie definitely gets better and the movie starts to take more form . It really seems like they shot this movie without a script and just came up with things , as they went along with filming . Of course not a thing that was uncommon for comedy shorts made in the 1910's . The movie is also too short to say anything more negative or really positive about it . A pointless to watch silent comedy short , that barely entertains enough .
Oh my !	Watch out for those nude killer nuns ! Lets face it , Italian horror isn't anymore what it used to be and all of the best movies were made mostly in the ' 70's and ' 80's . In the ' 90's the genre was already pretty much dried up in Italy . The movie has a pretty good genre concept and story but it deserved a way better execution all . The movie its story also most definitely isn't helped with its dialog . You know , it's the kind of dialog that is so bad that it will make you laugh . The actors that have to deliver the lines also obviously aren't among the best in their profession . No matter how hard the movie tries , it just never gets real scary or mysterious . The movie is often more dull and a drag . Besides some of the moments are just too ridicules . For instance , an archaeologist that is being scared by a couple of bones ? That really doesn't sound likely . It also doesn't help that the movie doesn't feature an awful lot of gore or monsters / killers in it . At least not some good gore . The gore that is in the movie looks quite amateur like . It makes this a rather disappointing - and below average genre movie . The movie spends more than halve of its time figuring out a mystery , while we as the viewers already knew what happened , because it was showed in the beginning of the movie . The how's and why's of it all is little interesting . The movie could had better focused on the present time within the movie , to make it more of a scary one . The character treatment also isn't among the greatest . The person who seems to be the main character suddenly disappears out of the story halve way through , to appear again much later . Yes , there is a reason for it but it doesn't make it any less bad . Same goes for lot of other characters , that just come and go within the story . There are some way better genre movies than this one and Lucio Fulci also has made way better movies .
More campy fun with Superman .	" Superman III " isn't really a terrible movie but it's more a movie that has some flaws in it , which causes the movie to be a below average one to watch . The story really isn't that bad and works fine as a campy-comedy . The way the story is however told at times make the movie look lame and silly . So good moments in the story are ruined and not executed correctly by director Richard Lester , who just isn't Richard Donner , no matter how hard he tries . Of course the charm and atmosphere of the first movie is longtime gone . Only thing that is left is the typical humor of the first movie . This movie is quite honestly more a comedy than it is an action movie . It makes the movie fun to watch as long as you don't take it all too seriously . The atmosphere and story is even more campy as it was in " Superman II " . The movie really misses Lois Lane and Lex Luthor . Lois Lane has been extremely limited done in this movie and the main villain is this time portrayed by Robert Vaughn . He is a great actor but he just is no Gene Hackman . Hackman made the first two movies extremely likable and watchable and at the same time gave the movie some extra style and sense of profession . This time the love interested for Clark Kent is Lana Lang who simply is no Lois Lane . There isn't really any chemistry on screen and their love-story isn't worked out good enough . I was actually watching this movie when I heard the news that Richard Pryor had passed away , that was a pretty weird and freaky experience and caused the news to be extra shocking . I knew his health was declining rapidly the last couple of years but still his death came as unexpected . He was excellent in this movie and made it great as a comedy . There are some hilarious comical moments that involves his character . He was truly one of the highlights of this movie and prevented this movie from being completely lame and ridicules . The movie is extremely simple executed which wasn't always good for the story . Yes , there are some good scene's such as the Clark Kent versus Superman thing that was thought up pretty well and there most certainly were some hilarious comical moments that were truly fun , B-movie , campy like , at times . But most of the good moments are ruined by the poor execution of the movie in general . Still it can be a very fun movie to watch as long as you don't take it all too serious .
They achieved the impossible .	It seems like an impossible thing to create a non-scary movie with a concept such as ' The Ring ' but they really achieved it with this movie . " The Ring Two " is a stylish but flawed horror movie . It's pretty much a movie that got done in the same style as the first movie " The Ring " . Only this time without director Gore Verbinski at the helm . His replacement is Japanese director Hideo Nakata who also directed the original Japanese movie " Ringu " and " Ringu 2 " . This movie is not based on " Ringu 2 " though and it picks a totally different story . Perhaps sort of too bad , since I actually quite liked " Ringu 2 " as a sequel to " Ringu " , while in its return the first movie " The Ring " was still a remake of the Japanese " Ringu " . Even though " The Ring " was not THE best genre movie ever made , it still was one of the scariest movies you'll ever see in your lifetime . It's not as if this movie doesn't try it but " The Ring Two " just never seems to become a scary one to watch . The movie is more scary and better with its style than it is with its actual horror moments . The timing seems off , which causes the movie its scare moments not to work out . Problem also simply is its story , that just never gets believable enough and relies too much on its supernatural elements and special effects that go with it . The story just never really sucks you in , which is also part of the reason why the horror doesn't really work out , even though the movie still features pretty much he same characters and actors . Naomi Watts does her very best and there is no denying that she's a great actress but she can't help to make this movie any more believable . Cast additions this time are there in the form of Elizabeth Perkins , Gary Cole and Sissy Spacek but well , there roles aren't really big or significant enough to leave a true impression . It's not like this is the worst genre movie ever made but nevertheless it's sort of a dud and especially disappointing when compared to the first movie " The Ring " .
Way too formulaic .	This movie was way too formulaic for me to enjoy . It's a very standard thriller , that basically doesn't feature anything new or surprising and is one that is like hundred of other genres movies , especially like this made in the same time period . The movie is not just bad because it's so formulaic , it perhaps is even more due to the fact that the story is just so predictable . Seriously , the big twist ? Who didn't see that one coming ? It's no surprise , its predictable and you just wait for it to happen . It's not like this movie is horrible or anything but for a genre it isn't anything special enough . It's the reason why you're still better off not watching this movie , even though you most likely won't be bored when you still do so . Even though the story is just bad and filled with way too many questions and plot holes , it's still a fast moving one . The movie feels much shorter than it in fact truly is . And yes , Goldie Hawn is a good actress but to she seemed out of place in this movie . She of course also isn't helped much by the movie its lacking script . The movie would had also been better of if they didn't cast John Heard . Not that he's a bad actor but it would had made the story perhaps a bit more surprising and at least not as predictable as it is now . John Heard is a sort of a funny actor . He can always play the same type of roles in every movie and also his looks never seem to change , not even now when he's getting older . Perhaps only watchable once but even then it's a forgettable one .
Some serious twirling and kicking involved .	This film is part of the series of short Edison films featuring circus and vaudeville acts . Subject in this movie is the American dancer Carmencita . She was quite popular as a dancer at the time and a much asked painting subject for painters . She was also the first every woman to appear in front of the camera in an Edison film , which also makes her the first every woman to appear in an American shot movie . But that's about as historically interesting as this movie gets . The image quality isn't the greatest but the movements look at all times smooth and that's of course what was most important for Edison and Co . at the time . Camencita shows some twirling , with kicks and high arm movements . Her arms got out of the frame at times and the camera also didn't seemed to be steady . Perphaps it was standing on the same stage as Carmencita was dancing on , which caused the light camera shaking ? Interesting for those wanting to check out the early Edison Manufacturing Company films , but it's nothing too great or significant .
It just couldn't grab me .	Normally I enjoy watching old movies from the ' 20's , even the more slower paced one's but this movie just didn't do it for me , although it also is of course far from the worst I have ever seen . The movie has a good enough story but it isn't exactly the most intriguing or tense stories to follow . Lots of sequences don't seem to have a relevant enough importance . It might have to do with the fact that the original length of the movie was over 6 hours long , which might had shown some of the relevance of certain sequences and characters but there is really no way I'm ever going to watch this longer version . The movie was already overlong as it was . The movie didn't had very much interesting drama in it and although the main character seemed intriguing , it just didn't worked out powerful enough in the movie . The movie also isn't as technically advanced as some of the other movies from the same time period , clearly directed by more talented and more experimental directors such as F . W . Murnau , Fritz Lang , Victor Sjöström and D . W . Griffith , among others . But this all of course doesn't mean that the movie is a bad one to watch . The story of a fake Russian aristocratic lady-killer in Monte Carlo trying to get money from rich ladies as on its own quite a good story and in a way for movie standards also ahead of its time . Many more movies like this one , in many different forms were made and are still being made , many years later now . In this particular case this is a movie I wouldn't mind seeing remade , perhaps also with some more humor in it and a more clear message . The movie also uses some quite good camera positions , on a positive note . Also the acting is good enough , though Miss DuPont seems heavily miscast as a pretty 21 year young girl . She is too old looking for her role and she also most certainly wasn't pretty enough to find the story very convincing . Same perhaps goes for Dale Fuller . Erich von Stroheim plays the real main part of the movie and he does this with lots of flair . He also wrote and directed the movie . Laurel & Hardy regular Mae Busch shows up in a serious role for a change and it was refreshing to see her like that for a change . Certainly a watchable movie but really no essential viewing in my opinion .
Quite good , considering its limited resources .	This is obviously a movie made with a very low budget and low other resources . The movie however manges well with its limited resources and its good for what it is , although obviously its hardly a genre classic or anything else too remarkable . The movie begins well but for the viewers it becomes obvious too early on into the movie what the story is all about and where the movie is heading to . It doesn't ever make the movie good as a mystery-movie but its atmosphere and other things compensate for this . As other reviewers have pointed out already , the movie has a great creepy kind of " The Twilight Zone " atmosphere , despite that the movie itself not being scary at all . I am however convinced of it that if this was an actual " The Twilight Zone " - episode , it would be considered one of the best ever . The atmosphere and the professional feeling of the movie make the movie work out , even though it all is nothing too remarkable or original . The movie has a good visual style and due to the fast directing ( which was I think probably due to the limited shooting time ) the movie flows well . It's cinematography is good and it provides the movie with a couple of pretty pictures . The movie also tries to be creative at times and also provide it with a couple of scare moments but this mostly does not work out . The movie its concept is interesting and I guess that it even had more potential in it , than used in the actual movie now . All of the elements now used feel rather formulaic and predictable . The movie perhaps also feels a bit like a poor man's " The Village " . Jeremy Sisto is a good ' big ' leading man for a this kind of movie , though I expected more from him honestly . The supporting cast does a good job although this movie of course hardly features any of the best performances . Worth a watch , if you're into the genre .
Great concept but weak story .	The concept of the movie is great and original , however the story is weak and gets later on in the movie unbelievable when all logic gets abandoned . The movie start of quite well and promises to get very interesting and has some nice thriller elements , however halve way through the story takes a turn and all the feeling of tension between the two main characters ( young boy Renfro and old Nazi McKellen ) is suddenly gone because the story gets unbelievable and because of that also uninteresting to watch . Still the chemistry between the two characters is good and for that alone the movie is worth watching . Ian McKellen is surprising good as rotten old Nazi war criminal that fled to America after WW II and Renfro also once again proofs that he is a young talented actor . Decent movie that could have been great but still has some nice thriller elements in it and some well done scene's which makes the movie watchable but not recommendable .
Too bad that the movie sort of looses it at the end .	To be honest I more enjoyed watching this movie than its predecessor . The movie picked a less serious approach of things , which mostly made this an enjoyable one to watch . It was too bad that toward the end the movie becomes a bit too ridicules and its story seems to be completely thrown overboard . Still can't really understand the hate toward this movie though . If you take this movie for what it is it's simply a good and enjoyable one to watch . It's story might not be anything special but it's simply all good enough for the movie of this sort and it features all of the right required ingredients . It's also a movie done with some more style , which comes back in its more professional visual look . I found the characters from this movie to be also far more compelling as the ones from the first movie . Perhaps this is also due to the actors playing them . This movie has some more big names in it , such as Edward Furlong , Anthony Edwards and Clancy Brown . The characters work out as more entertaining and they are easier to identify with . It's true that this isn't really an horror movie and that's probably also why this movie is being blasted a lot by many people who were basically expecting another movie exactly like " Pet Sematary " . Perhaps this movie is also better viewed as a stand-alone . Sure the movie has some gore and shock but it's mostly being used for its ' entertainment ' . The movie is good and enjoyable for most part and in those parts the movie is in my opinion also definitely better as " Pet Sematary " but as the movie is heading more and more toward its ending it tends to get worse . A real shame , since it takes away quite a lot from the movie and its entertainment value . It turns into a real poor B-flick and I feel that the makers perhaps also had some difficulties at times finding the right balance between its humor and the movie its more serious intended aspects . Definitely still a good and enjoyable enough movie to watch , if you're willing to give it a shot and simply take it for what it is .
Has all the standard clichés in it but still is a movie worth watching .	" We Were Soldiers " is a nicely made movie but isn't exactly memorable , original or impressive enough to leave a lasting impression . There are several problems I had with this movie . Perhaps the biggest problem was that it wasn't easy to follow . It was hard to tell who was where at the moment fighting . Basically all we ever get to see are the Americans and the NVA shooting at each other through bushes and running towards each other . The movie lacks a sense of scale and because of that the movie also doesn't ever really become realistic . It's interesting that they also show the NVA side of the battle , something that's a very rare thing in a Vietnam-war movie but it's all done in a very shallow and formulaic way . Which brings me to another problem I had with this movie . It's all too formulaic and not original enough . The characters are build up in a sappy way and they lack substance and aren't likable or interesting enough . And having dying soldiers saying ' tell my wife I love her ' has got to be one of the biggest movie clichés in movie history . There were really some scene's that made me cringe such as the scene in which a dying soldier says ' I'm glad I could die for my country ' . I know it is wrong but I actually laughed and I mean really laughed during that scene . It was so embarrassing and totally unrealistic to look at . It took away all of the emotions and sense of desperateness and danger . It was a very over-dramatized and because of that also not a believable enough movie , to follow . They over-dramatized it even more to add the wives of the soldiers to the storyline . For me those sequences didn't worked and were only distracting and felt unnecessary . The movie is good looking and the battle sequences are nicely set up but it never becomes really tense or spectacular . Because of that " We Were Soldiers " is a good looking movie that is worth watching just maybe once but at the same time is also very forgettable movie that lacks real substance . The excellent musical score by Nick Glennie-Smith is wonderful though and is to be honest the only reason why I ever wanted to see this movie . There are better and more realistic Vietnam war movies to watch out there instead . Randall Wallace has created a sappy , over-the-top dramatic movie that doesn't make an awfully large impression .
Nice action but kind of lame story .	Once again the action is just wonderful ( what else did you expect from a man like John Woo ? ) but the story itself is kind of lame and ridicules . Some of the things just don't make any sense and even though it's just a few minutes short , the movie is still filled with plot holes . Not Woo's fault , he just does what he can do best ; Film breathtaking action sequence's . Also the movie is edited pretty poorly at times , especially towards the ending . The music by Steve Jablonsky also was one of the highlights of the movie . It was a good action score that suited the movie well . He is still an unknown composer but I expect this to change in the next few years . Remember this name people ! Still slightly a bit of a disappointing part of " The Hire " series of shorts but still very well watchable , thanks to the action .
Visually great but nothing more then that .	Visually the movie looks brilliant , the costumes , the sets , the cinematography , everything is perfect . However the story is at some point over dramatic and follows way too many characters in way too many long and sometimes pointless scene's . The cast is amazing it has so many great actors in it that I don't know where to start and they all give the performances of their lives . I especially mention Anthony Hopkins and Morgan Freeman . Then were did it go wrong with such a great cast & crew ? The story . The story itself is actually pretty weak . I'll admit that at first the movie seems wonderfully made with excellent dialogs and visually amazing scene's . However when you think about it ; how many of those scene's and characters are actually really needed ? For instance , what's the point of Morgan Freeman's character ? And what's the point of those long scene's were they do nothing but talking that hasn't really got to do anything with the main story . Yes sure the scene's are done wonderful and although they are long they aren't boring at all but just think about it ; are they really needed ? It almost seems as if those beautiful scene's and the acting are a cover up for the weak story . It would have been a better movie if it had been 30 minutes shorter and had lesser characters in it . Still the movie is very watchable . There are a few memorable scene's and like I said many times before ; visually the movie is wonderful ! I still find the movie recommendable , also because of the importance of it .
How is this even an horror ?	How can this movie be even regarded an horror movie ? It lacks some serious tension and scares and even though this movie is made in a typical horror movie style , this just is no horror movie . This was a real disappointing thing to me and definitely surely more was to be expected from a movie based on a Japanese horror movie , that however , as it seems , is just as much of a lackluster as this movie is . This movie jumps all over the place with its story . The one moment it's some pure drama and the other it tries to include some horror elements but it just never pushed through . It's like they trying to head into a certain direction at times but then suddenly stop and say ; ' Nah , this is not going to work , let's try something else now ' . It to me made this a pretty inconsistent movie to watch . Also the story its time-line and the way it progressed just didn't seemed right to me . The movie at times makes some sudden jumps with its scenes and it often feels like 2 or 3 scenes are missing from the movie at times . It really doesn't makes this movie a satisfying one to watch . But no , I still can't rate this movie really low , since it's definitely a good looking one with also some great actors in it . Even though it's a real lackluster , it's not a movie I hated watching or anything . The movie just left me hungry for more all the time , for something that just never came . The movie is like one big build up to absolutely nothing . It's fair enough to say that the actors are the ones that keep your interested throughout . Jennifer Connelly is a true great , already Oscar winning , actress . But also the supporting cast seems pretty amazing , considering the type of movie this one is . It features acclaimed actors such as John C . Reilly , Tim Roth , Dougray Scott , Pete Postlethwaite and Camryn Manheim in its supporting cast . A cast most in Hollywood would be jealous about . So this is not really an horror , does that mean that this movie should be regarded as just merely a drama ? I don't think so . As a drama this movie in its core might be solid but with all of those ' supernatural ' elements thrown in , you just can't really regard this movie as a serious drama attempt . The movie got also made too much into a typical distinctive horror movie style for that . A good looking movies that follows all of the usual Japanese horror remake steps but only forgets about its tension and scares . I even prefer " The Grudge " over this , at least that one had still horror elements in it .
Bad enough to consider this a good movie .	I couldn't believe how bad this movie was . This movie is a sort of a fan-favorite , mostly because of the reasons that this is an incredible trashy movie , so I expected some good old fashioned poorly made but yet great entertainment . In that this movie most certainly didn't disappoint . It's one of those movies that's almost so bad that it becomes a good one but not fully so I'm afraid . The movie is incredibly cheap looking , with bad sound recording and dubbing , simple compositions , almost entirely hand-held camera-work and lots of fake ' 70's blood . The movie was obviously made on a shoe-string budget . The movie really has some laughable bad looking sequences , mostly involving the Belial character going berserk , including some really bad stop-motion effects . The weak acting makes the movie seem all the more cheap . Most of the actors never worked again after this movie , or even before this for that matter . Really , who are all those people ? But the people involved in this movie were definitely creative with its horror - and gory moments . The director obviously has some passion for the genre . Some great creativity here . Lots of these sort of movies were made in the ' 70's and ' 80's all over the world . More than enough for the genre fans to watch in a lifetime . The movie has a real cool and also original horror concept . The story itself is of course quite silly and extremely far fetched but also all the more original because of that . It in all fairness really deserved a better execution , or at least an higher budget . That way this movie would probably also be a better known one and would it also be more appreciated . It's a movie that is filled with some great horror moments and some very gory killings . So plenty here to enjoy for the fans - and to make this is a memorable B-horror movie .
Too much talking going on on screen for a Laurel & Hardy comedy short .	This movie has one main problem ; It has too much talking and too little comedy situations . It makes " The Fixer Uppers " one of the lesser Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts . Yes , it's definitely true that the movie gets better toward the ending but that was all too late for me . Basically the movie relies too much on just one comical situation and builds the entire movie around this . The comical situation itself isn't even original and the boys used it before in one of their first silent movies together ; " Slipping Wives " . The entire first halve of the movie is too boring and too little is happening , mainly because there is way too much dialog in it . Of course the movie still has some well executed moments and it surely made me laugh at at least two occasions . It proofs that even the lesser Laurel & Hardy movies are still good enough to give you an overall good time and make you laugh , or at the very least amuse you . Laurel & Hardy regular Mae Busch shows up in a quite big and significant role this time . She shows that she was a great comedy actress and entertains in her role . Another Laurel & Hardy regular in this movie is Arthur Housman , who yet again plays a drunk . It's a less significant and a too forced role unfortunately to provide the movie with some good memorable moments . Weak first halve , too much talking and it relies too much on one comical situation . All the reasons why this movie is one of the lesser Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts that of course still entertains and amuses , especially its fans .
Wolverines !	The story is kept pretty simple and straightforward and also touched a sensitive nerve at the time , since the cold war was still fully going on at the time . It's about the Russians and Cubans invading the United States and thereby unleashing WW III . The movie focuses on a small group of teenagers in a small American town , who turn themselves into an effective guerrilla force , named the Wolverines , to battle the communist invaders . But the movie does not really have a sense of realism . The movie doesn't feel like this could have ever or shall ever really occur . It's because the movie is rather simple . It also doesn't really tries to provoke or anything . This movie feels more like a spoof of what can actually happen than a serious movie trying to make a statement and sent out a warning . It's hard to ever take this movie seriously and just see it for what it is ; pure entertainment . All of the Russians and Cubans are extremely stereotypical evil and their methods and regime reminds more of the WW II Nazi-regime . But I think that the movie also does a good job as portraying the Americans not as kind-hearted peace loving folks . It shows that nobody is really innocent in a war time situation and you're being forced into things you normally wouldn't ever do or even think of . The movie its battle sequence are pretty good looking . The invasion forces and their weapons look good and realistic and the movie has some nice action sequences . Overall the movie really does give you the sense and feeling of an actual war-time situation . The movie also has some nice looking scenery and with yet another awesome musical score from Basil Poledouris , who did some of his best work with director John Milius . The movie has a great ' 80's cast with big names from that period such as Patrick Swayze , C . Thomas Howell , Lea Thompson , Charlie Sheen , Jennifer Grey and Harry Dean Stanton . Grey and Swayze would later work together again as the two main characters in " Dirty Dancing " , despite the fact that they didn't like each other very much personally . It's not really a great movie but interesting to watch nevertheless because of its concept .
Unescary remake but luckily Gert Fröbe is back again !	This movie is not bad but it's a too simple entry in the Dr . Mabuse movie franchise . It's part of the long running Dr . Mabuse franchise and a remake of the 1933 movie with the same title , directed by Fritz Lang . It's a bit weird that they decided to do a remake this time , as if they ran out of original ideas of its own . But then again , can you really call this a remake ? It changed quite a lot , including the characters . It doesn't have an awful lot to do plot-wise with the 1933 movie and only a few sequences are similar . It also almost exactly copies the car chase in the finale of the movie but it of course can't beat the brilliant original . The movie is not really mysterious since it show Dr . Mabuse and his intentions pretty early on in the movie . In the original version it was still kept a mystery for long that Dr . Mabuse was still alive and that he still was just as much in control as always . This movie chooses a far more simplified approach of things . The movie is instead now often more silly than really tense or mysterious . It has some certain clumsiness's and silliness's in it , which makes the movie feel far more outdated than its 1962 year of production would normally suggest it is . And even though it's not a slow or boring movie , it just isn't a very exciting one either really . At least a real positive thing was that Gert Fröbe returned again in his role as Kriminalkommissar Lohmann . The same role he had played before in " Im Stahlnetz des Dr . Mabuse " . And what he great actor he was ! Also Wolfgang Preiss reprises his role of Dr . Mabuse once more , for the fourth time already . Luckily his role in this movie is much larger again and he is better than ever before in this movie . It's OK to watch , if you also liked the previous Dr . Mabuse movies .
The biggest flop of all time is not the worst movie of all time .	" Cutthroat Island " has gotten an horrible reputation , due to the fact that this is the biggest box office loss of all time . The movie actually managed to make Carolco Pictures go bankrupt . The company who brought us pictures like the first three Rambo movies , " Total Recall " , " Jacob's Ladder " , " Terminator 2 : Judgment Day " , " Basic Instinct " , " Total Recall " and " Stargate " . It's actually in the Guinness Book of World Records as the biggest loss of money for a film company ever . In that regard it's pretty amazing that director Renny Harlin is still working in the business , on also fairly large movies . But of course " Cutthroat Island " is far from the worst movie of all time . It's action packed fun non-sense , that is being pulled down as a movie by its script and wrong casting choices . Of course director Renny Harlin wanted to cast his newly wed wife ( and of course they are already divorced a couple of years later again ) as the movie's main lead . It's not necessary that fact that a woman plays the main part in a pirate movie that makes it bad but it's the fact that Geena Davis isn't showing her greatest skills in this movie . The movie also isn't being helped by the lack of chemistry between Davis and Matthew Modine . But in his defense , he was a last minute addition to the cast , after several actors already declined the role . Frank Langella on the other hand goes deliciously over the top as the movie its ruthless main pirate villain . I guess he must have really had fun playing in this movie . To bad that none of the other actors really put any fun in their roles . There lats perhaps one problem of the movie ; it's too serious all . The movie was obviously an attempt to put new life into the pirate / swashbuckler genre . After the failure of this movie , the swashbuckler genre seemed pretty death , simply because no film company dared to make another pirate movie again , until " Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl " , which came an unexpected huge success . The movie has a quite simplistic dark , serious color tone and atmosphere . Some more colors could had done wonders and would had made the movie a more interesting to watch . It now instead tries to be an hard entertaining action flick , with big stunts , explosions and fights but miraculously with no blood in it . At its time this movie was really big because of its stunt work . It also was one of the most expensive movies of its time with an close to an 100 million dollar budget . This big budget can be seen back on the screen , since this movie is an almost non stop action flick , with constant chases and explosions . This however of course truly goes at the expense of the story . The movie actually features one of the most awesome looking explosions in movie history , toward the end of the movie . It's one of my all time favorite movie explosions . Yes , I'm weird . It's story is way to simplistic and it's of course about a treasure hunt . The movie basically features all of the clichés the genre has to offer . It therefore is also predictable and perhaps even a bit tiresome to watch . Basically the biggest reason why you should ever watch this movie is the musical score by John Debney and performed by the London Symphony Orchestra . Can you just imaging how bad this movie would had been without its musical score ? I even dare to say that it is the very musical score which is the reason why this still is a watchable movie . It certainly is a reason for me to watch this movie once every few years . The score is totally overblown yes but it's oh so brilliant and sweeping . It's actually pretty funny how in some sequences absolutely nothing interesting or spectacular is happening but the musical score still manages to make it sound as if the most exciting and biggest thing in movie history is happening on screen . Yes it's a very well watchable movie , that perhaps is also better than the reputation given to it but it's also way too flawed to call this a great one as well .
Lacks a clear purpose .	You know , this sort of 10 minute short movies should always have a provoking or clever message in it , or just should purely entertain , also by showing of some skills from the director's part . This movie really doesn't do any of that . If there is a message in this movie then I surely missed it . The movie tries to handle a delicate subject , regarding falling for a Turkish girl , while yourself are Dutch and get confronted by the dangers of the so called ' honor revenge ' by the direct family of the girl , which still is a hot-subject in the Netherlands . Director Lodewijk Crijns uses all the stereotypes about the Muslim and Turkish culture in particular that exist and of course exaggerates them , to a point when they go completely over-the-top . It's probably also the reason why this movie probably works better as entertainment than as anything provoking , though of course some people will remain feeling offended by this movie . Lodewijk Crijns has a sort of reputation as a weird movie-maker . " Jezus is een Palestijn " is probably one of the weirdest Dutch movie's to have ever hit cinemas . This short movie also shows some weird tendencies and style but it overall is too short all to consider this movie an ' odd ' one , or anything like that . Yolanthe Cabau van Kasbergen doesn't seem like a likely pick for the title role , mainly because , well she is not Turkish at all and it's not like that there aren't any good Turkish actresses around who would had wanted to play the role . Plus on top of that Yolanthe Cabau van Kasbergen is a person who acts mostly in soap-series and other low-budget production , so she also isn't the greatest talent around , in the business . The only reason why they seemed to have cast her in the role was to receive some free publicity ( which mostly failed by the way , although I'm sure that if she wasn't in this , this movie would had been even more unknown to the public . ) , since she is considered to be one of the most beautiful Dutch-female at the time and since her role is a provoking one , when it comes down to showing some skin and I admit , she really is not punishment to look at in this movie . It's not really that this movie is bad or not entertaining enough , it's just that it lacks a real purpose and is nothing more than a simple pleasant waste of time . Only recommendable if you want to see Yolanthe Cabau van Kasbergen's hot body , which should be reason enough for some people to watch this .
Weak Columbo entry .	I wouldn't exactly call this movie an horrible one but compared to the usual Columbo movie standards , this is a rather weak entry in the long running successful series , starring Peter Falk . Some very odd things are happening in this movie , that just don't feel ' Columbo-like ' . I would call this movie a rather unrealistic one , even for usual Columbo movie standards . It also really isn't the most clever Columbo movie around and it's actually a quite poorly written one , that perhaps even becomes a bit ridicules at part . Also the way the murder itself is being planned out and committed is quite ridicules in my opinion . Vincent McEveety always was a director who tried out some new things for his Columbo movies , often with success but there also are some movies that simply don't work out well enough , of which this is obviously one . It's also often a real slow movie . Some of the sequences go on for far too long , which I blame to the dialog . Some of the dialog is absolutely dragging and its the type of dialog in which the same things get said 3 times over again . It makes some of the sequences within this movie annoying to watch as well . The movie also isn't really helped by its cast . George Wendt isn't an horrible actor but yet he really doesn't act well in this movie , so you can say he got miscast . It's still interesting to see Rod Steiger in this Columbo movie and his role is actually quite bigger than he gets credited for . Hardly the best or most interesting role out of his career but it's nice watching him in this nevertheless . Peter Falk also does his very best but I wouldn't call it the best performance out of his career , which again , is mostly also due to the movie its dialog . So really not the best Columbo movie around , although I also just wouldn't call this movie an horrible one .
A decent action-movie / adventure flick . What else did you expect ?	I think nobody expected this movie to be a masterpiece but people did expected this movie to be an entertaining action-flick , on par with the two The Mummy movies , of which this movie is a direct spin-off . The movie does not disappoint in its action , which makes " The Scorpion King " a far from great but still a certainly watchable movie . The Rock is no actor but he is a great action-hero star . Despite his flawed acting he is believable and likable in his role . The movie has a solid supporting cast . Steven Brand is a great villain actor and I expect more good villainous roles from him in the future . Michael Clarke Duncan is a welcome addition , even though the movie could had done without his character . It further more has well known actors Kelly Hu and Bernard Hill appearing in this movie . This is the sort of movie which I imaging would have been great for stunt performers to work on . The movie is action packed and filled with some nicely choreographed fighting sequences and other fine action sequences , including big explosions and all sorts of weapons . The action movie fan will not be disappointed with this movie and there is plenty for him or her to enjoy in this movie . Of course the story is almost non-existent but honestly what else did you expect ? The story isn't really anything new and it rips off multiple movies without shame . The movie is not filled with any surprises but anyone who had expected a tight waterproof , original plot are apparently also not familiar with the two The Mummy movies , which also were far from perfect or original when it comes to the plot and story . Unfortunately director Chuck Russell isn't the most talented guy in the business , you can tell that by looking at this movie . His style feels inexperienced , even though he already had quite some experience as a director while shooting this movie . At what it tries to achieve , the movie is successful . It brings some good mindless , action-packed entertainment .
Fun combination of horror and comedy . I wish the movie had more laughs in it though .	It's amazing that a movie with such a concept and people involved wasn't more fun to watch . The movie seriously lacked some good laughs at times and I feel that the movie in its core had far more potential . It's obvious that Gene Wilder wanted to make a Mel Brooks kind of movie . The movie definitely has the same atmosphere and ideas as " Young Frankenstein " . Unfortunately its not as good and it shows how much quality Mel Brooks actually has , to have the skill to have simple , predictable and silly humor and still make an hilarious and classic movie with it . The humor in this movie is just as absurd and predictable and unfortunately it just doesn't always work out . The story is totally uninteresting and just serves as an excuse to put as many crazy characters as possible into the movie . It's a weird looking bunch with Dom DeLuise playing a woman ! Could be me but I thought the sight of him was pretty darn hilarious ! Halve of the time I didn't even bother to wanted to know what the story was all about , it was that absurd really ! The movie of course also features Gene Wilder but unfortunately he hasn't given himself better material and dialog to work with . So it's hardly his best or most comical role . The movie further more also features Jonathan Pryce , in one of his earlier movie roles . Quite frankly I don't understand who the movie has such a bad reputation . I mean the movie is not all that bad . Yes , you have to like these sort of movies ( Mel Brooks-type of humor movies ) but I've seen far worse genre movies receiving far better criticism . It just doesn't seem really fair . The special effects are definitely acceptable for its genre and year it was made in . So was its make-up and its entire professional visual look . If you like these type of movies its very well worth seeing , though it's definitely not the best movie in its genre that is around .
Well made but lacks tension .	This is a rather well made and good looking 4th , modern , updated , Invasion of the Body Snatchers version that however lacks the tension and mystery that made the first 2 earlier versions so great . It's not as if the movie doesn't try but the end result is comparable to the 2005 version of " War of the Worlds " . It's good looking all , fine acted , directed and whatever more but it doesn't know to grab you and suck you into the story . Because of this the movie remains mostly bland to watch . The movie doesn't keep its mystery for very long . It's pretty obvious early on into the movie what is going on and it doesn't take a long time for the main characters to actually ' believe ' and tries to fight the evil . This also already takes away some of the tension of the movie . This movie didn't seemed like a logical next step for director Oliver Hirschbiegel , who had made the Hitler drama " Der Untergang " previously before this . This was also actually his first English language debut . but I must say he did a good job with this movie . The studio executives however though otherwise and brought in the Wachowski brothers for a rewrite and James McTeigue to direct some new scenes , after this movie already got first wrapped up in 2006 . No doubt they added some more action and pace into the movie , which I must say wasn't a bit choice but it however also doesn't exactly make the movie any more tense . Who knows , perhaps the original Hirschbiegel was a whole lot more tense actually . Perhaps it focused more on the psychological and mysterious elements of the movie , of which the movie still shows some small tendencies . You can also wonder if some of the ' modern ' updates for this movie version were actually really needed . Besides mobile phones and text massaging , the movie also makes terrorist reference as if the movie also tried to make a statement , which in the end just doesn't really come through . The lead is played by a female this time ; Nicole Kidman , who doesn't do a bad job but also seems a bit lost at times . Daniel Craig's role is perhaps a bit too limited and perhaps the movie could had used some more prominently featured characters . The movie now instead only mostly focuses on Kidman and occasionally but not consistently Craig . Wachtable enough but you can also easily do without this version .
Not sure why it's considered such a stinker .	This is a typical 13 in a dozen romantic musical movie from the MGM studio's . It's not any better or worse than most other productions , which means that the genre fans will most likely enjoy this movie . This is your typical enjoyable lighthearted romantic musical comedy from the MGM studio's , which means that the movie is mostly good looking , has some good musical moments but is predictable and formulaic to watch . Does it really matter all ? There only are a handful of MGM musicals that have gained the classic status . About 80 % of their musical productions are nothing more than simple lighthearted movies that are pleasant to watch but at the same time also extremely forgettable . These sort of movies are good to kill some time with , of course especially if you're a fan of the genre . Granted that the love-story is not the most believable or compelling one . I don't know but having a 60 year old playboy prince falling for a 30 years younger blond beauty by todays standards feels more dirty than romantic . Guess in the ' 40's / ' 50's this was Hollywoods idea of a romantic story and every young girl dreamed of marrying an older , rich , playboy prince . Who knows . Yet the story still works out alright enough , which is thanks to the actors Lana Turner and Ezio Pinza , who also have some good chemistry together . Further more the movie is filled with all of the formulaic genre ingredients and most things also don't really come as a surprise . The movie is not as musical filled as perhaps other MGM productions , which might disappoint certain people . The movie is pretty good looking , with some nice sets , costumes and setting , although it's all obvious fake at times . It helps to give the movie a pretty good light feeling and atmosphere , which helps to make this movie a pleasant one to watch . The movie features some good other actors such as Sir Cedric Hardwicke and Debbie Reynolds in an early role . Yet most of the other characters are underused in the story , which provide the movie with some missed opportunities . The movie overall as a whole has perhaps a tad bit more misses than hits in it , which does make the movie an uneven one to watch at times . More of the same all but I'm not complaining about it and so most certainly wouldn't the genre fans . The movie deserves a better reputation , for sure .
Entertaining enough little adventure movie .	This movie had everything in it to become the Indiana Jones of the ' 50's but yet it isn't . The movie its story had potential . The story of the search for holy artifacts supporting that the stories of the bible are true and the biblical Joseph really existed and lived in Egypt , sound fascinating and surely good enough to make a fun adventurous movie around . Yet the movie never becomes are really great and perfectly fun adventurous movie to watch . The story is not imaginative enough and basically there is very little interesting or spectacular happening on the screen . The movie could had really used some more action and better villainous characters , to make the movie more exciting , tense and entertaining to watch . There really isn't much happening in this movie , which seems odd , considering the genre of the movie and its story . The movie makes a redundant and pointless impression because of that . Even though the story sounds like it - this just isn't a fun or adventurous must-see . The movie is a bit clumsy looking at times . Though its production values are good and the actors do their best , the movie just isn't good enough to watch at times . The movie was obviously shot with only one camera , with as a result some silly and ineffective camera positions at times . It especially makes the more fast paced and action sequences look ridicules and ineffective . The movie uses some beautiful locations and is obviously shot really in Egypt itself , for most part . It uplifts the movie and gives it a certain extra sense of feeling of traveling , adventure and mystery . Too bad that the movie doesn't know how to fully exploit and use this feeling and atmosphere . It once again shows why Robert Pirosh wasn't the greatest director around . Considering its potential , it's a disappointing movie that in its core still brings some good entertainment . So not a completely unwatchable movie , even though it probably has more weak than strong points in it .
" The Hire " British style .	" The Hire " goes British style this time . The style is comparable to movies like " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " , " Snatch and " The Boondock Saints " . It is filled with some typical humor and overall is a lot of fun to watch . Still the short suffers from one big problem ; Madonna . I'm sorry but she really can't act . Even in the scene's were she has no lines she acts horrible . She really pulled the professionalism of the movie down . Also thing I was not to happy about was the editing , it was kind of messy especially in the car speeding sequences . Still the fourth " The Hire " short is a lot of fun to watch and the ending itself is really funny !
Quite stylish but somewhat disappointing movie .	Director Guillermo del Toro already showed with his previous movies that he has a great visual style . " Hellboy " is no exception and it has a great dark comic book atmosphere . Too bad that the story and most of the characters don't really work out the way they're supposed to . The character of Hellboy self works out just great ! This is thanks to mainly Ron Perlman but also to the very convincing make-up effects . The rest of the characters feel like they are only put in the movie to fill up the screen . Selma Blair is very boring as Liz Sherman and it never became clear to me in the movie why professor Bloom , out of all people picked John Myers . Not really a good character either . The two characters Abe Sapien and Tom Manning ( Jeffrey Tambor is wonderful ! ) , who were about the two most entertaining characters , disappear way too soon out of the movie . But most disappointing are the villains which are often the most important in ' super-hero ' movies like these . Having Rasputin as the main villain of course is already a ridiculous idea itself but on top of that he simply isn't a very good and convincing villain . Uber-Nazi Karl Ruprect Kroenen is a way more interesting villain . He is the kind of villain I love in movies , cool outfit , awesome weapons , he can't seem to die and he has no lines . Excellent , scary , cool and mysterious all in one . Not bad for a 107 year old . He also was way more better than the most of the time , special effects monsters . The special effects were at times good , mediocre and just at times unconvincing . The action also was somewhat disappointing . I think this is due to the wrong offbeat pace in the movie . Everything is happening way too fast . One moment Hellboy is giving away some great , fun and cool one-liners and the next he's fighting a monster in the subway . Because everything is happening so fast , the story also isn't always easy to follow . The movie wasn't as entertaining as I had hoped and expected . I'm sure that when I read the script I would like the story better than I did while watching the movie . It still is a somewhat entertaining movie to watch but not one that I would recommend to everyone . However I'm still looking forward to " Hellboy 2 " also because ' superhero ' sequels are only getting better and better these last couple of years ( " Spider-Man 2 " , " X2 " ) . Hopefully the title will be ; " Hellboy 2 : The Return of Kroenen " ? One could only wish for . . .
Thumbs down for story , thumbs up for action .	The story is filled with way too many twists and back stabbing characters . In a way it brings down the movie's entertainment value . " Ronin " is filled with some famous actors like ; Robert De Niro , Jean Reno , Stellan Skarsgård , Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce . They all do a good job and they can't help it that the movie is at times unlikely and hard to follow . The many plot-holes , twists and unanswered questions don't really make this a pleasant movie to watch over and over again . It's hard to tell in the movie who really is who and who is working for who . The fact that the movie doesn't really bother to explain anything makes it even harder and unpleasant to follow . The action on the other hand is worth watching over and over again . The movie has some nicely filmed shoot outs and some really amazing car chases . " Ronin " really beats modern ' cool ' movies like " The Fast and the Furious " on that front . Final conclusion is ; director John Frankenheimer did a good job , writer J . D . Zeik and script doctor David Mamet did not .
Enjoyable enough Muppet vehicle .	This is a rather enjoyable and harmless entertaining Muppet movie , featuring most of the well known Muppets . It really isn't their best or most memorable one though . Lets face it and be honest here , this movie really isn't the greatest made or best written one . The only real reason that the movie still works out is thanks to the Muppets . The humor actually isn't that much good , since its mostly simply written and the events are predictable . Nevertheless the movie still manages to become funny because of the humorous and well known characters , that need no introduction . For me it really was in this case Miss Piggy that makes the movie work out . Her character features by far the most humorous and enjoyable situations . Miss Piggy is basically a Muppet-favorite of every one ! She is such a great and comical character . Also the idea alone that a grown up man , such as Frank Oz , is with his hand inside a silly looking pig and doing a very feminine voice is reason enough already to crack me up . I really respect the Muppet-performers and their timing and handling is always just great , especially Frank Oz who always is subtle and handles the most enjoyable Muppet characters . Besides acting , Frank Oz also was the person who directed and wrote the movie . The movie concentrates a bit too much on just the two main characters of the movie ; Kermit and Miss Piggy . Also the human cast gets wasted because of that but of course also most of the Muppet characters . They put ( too ) many Muppets in the movie but doesn't provide them with enough room to let them shine , or their characters speak out . They tried to do so by putting in some extra solo sequences , featuring some of the Muppet characters , which felt like a last minute addition but was amusing , though distracting , nevertheless . The movie also features Rizzo the Rat in his first big movie role but it's too bad that he didn't teamed up with Gonzo yet in this on . The movie could had really used another and distracting from the main plot , comical duo , besides Kermit and Miss Piggy . The movie yet again features many cameo from well known actors and other celebrities . Celebrities and Muppets always have been a great combination . Not only well known ( at the time ) celebrities make a cameo but also the " Sesame Street " characters do so , toward the ending . It's obvious that they used this movie as a vehicle to also use some new puppet techniques , that in my opinion however don't work out and are redundant . Showing the Muppet's legs when they walk , bad idea ! Putting someone in a Miss Piggy suit when she is on roller-blades , bad idea ! Though the movie is mostly forgettable it of course still features some great sequences such as the one with the Muppet babies . It also of course features some good comedy moments and it obviously makes this an enjoyable simple movie to watch but it's all not quite enough for this movie to really make a lasting impression . Out of all the Muppet movies this is probably the one with the most less re-playability factor .
Perhaps the silliest Laurel & Hardy movie around .	This is perhaps the Laurel & Hardy movie with the most silliest and random humor in it . The movie has a silly premise and it is entirely set in the Stone Age . This movie perhaps was a sort of experiment to see how the audience would react to a Laurel & Hardy movie that was not set in the 20th century and featured some almost cartoon like humor . In my opinion it's a rather failed experience . Although the movie does entertain , it really misses the Laurel & Hardy touch . It makes this movie basically just as good ( or bad ) as any other ' 20's slapstick movie . Although the movie is simple and silly , it certainly is no bad movie to watch . It has some real good funny moments in it , especially the scene in which the James Finlayson character gets thrown of the mountain is priceless but overall it still is a pretty simple movie that is too odd and different to please the most hardened Laurel & Hardy fans . The comedy seems to be very random , just like is the case in animated cartoons . Probably the reason why this is the silliest Laurel & Hardy movie around . It also doesn't make the movie the most consistent Laurel & Hardy comedy short around . To be honest the title cards were often funnier to read than it was to watch this movie . Not a really a good or common thing for a Laurel & Hardy movie . Stan Laurel does play a pretty good and very different role . It shows his variety as an actor and he shows that he can be funny , no matter what sort of role he plays . When he enters the screen the movie becomes truly entertaining and fun to watch . It's too bad that he gets introduced rather late into the movie . The movie also features Laurel & Hardy regular James Finlayson , who doesn't play a very big or significant but still fun role . Further more the movie is mostly filled with some pretty looking young cave-women . A very silly movie . Beware not to expect a regular early Laurel & Hardy silent comedy short .
Good concept but average movie .	" Paycheck " is by no means a bad movie but it fails to become above average . There are several problems with this movie . One is the story . The concept of the movie really isn't that bad and actually is quite good , original , mysterious and tense . The execution of it all is however done very uninteresting . The movie rips-off a lot of other movies ( mainly " Minority Report " of course ) and it doesn't even try to hide this . Not even Woo's style is enough to make this movie above average . Another problem of the movie is Ben Affleck . Now , I'm not a Ben Affleck hater but he simply isn't much of an action hero , at least not in this movie . He also has absolutely no chemistry on screen with Uma Thurman who plays his love interest in this movie . Affleck is simply terribly miscast . The villains are also disappointing . There are too many evil villainous characters and it's not always clear who is the ' big-villain ' of the movie . The story is filled with missed opportunities and fails to become interesting or as mysterious as I could had been . The action is good . To be honest , I wish that there would be more action movies with sequences like in this movie . There is no doubt that John Woo is a fantastic action director . Watching a Woo movie is always a feast for the action movie lovers , " Paycheck " is no exception . It has some fantastic action moments but in this case action sequences alone are not enough to save the movie . It's a somewhat enjoyable action / science-fiction flick but it misses the depth that this kind of movie needs .
Would had been much better without all of that forced comedy .	This movie its weakness is its humor . The movie at times goes way over-the-top , in an attempt to make the viewer laugh out loud . The writing of the movie is not bad and fun enough of its own . It didn't really needed those forced comedy moments to make a good enjoyable comedy . The movie would had worked out way better with a more of a Wes Anderson kind of approach of film-making . The sort of non-forced way of trying to be funny but still have all the quirky kind of characters in it . Sounds weird coming from a guy who isn't even a Wes Anderson fan . The main lead actors all did a good job considering and they were given some good dialog to work with . The camera-work and editing were all good enough , as was it's overall style . Nothing to renewing or spectacular but it served its purpose well all . No , it's not a bad movie now and it's simply enjoyable enough but also a bit too lacking and too clumsy put together all , to take this really serious as a professional / serious attempt of creating a short film , though the intentions for it were definitely there .
Just really not that funny .	This movie might had been something and original at its time but this movie just isn't exactly my idea of a great or hilarious comedy . It's not like I hated it , I actually still quite enjoyed it but that doesn't prevent this movie from being an overrated one . Most of the movie its comedy comes from the character looking and talking into the camera and comical sequences that are being played fast-forward , " Benny Hill " - style . It just doesn't work out as being THAT funny . The movie of course has a couple of nice moments but overall the comedy is really lacking , which is a disappointing aspect of the movie . The story however is quite original , at least for its time it was . It involves time traveling and mistaken identities , when Ivan The Terrible find himself in ' modern ' Russia , while another man from the modern Russia and Czar Ivan look-alike takes over his place in return , in the 16th century . This concept of course provides the movie with plenty of comical situations but still I feel that this movie didn't exploited all of its potential . The movie and its comedy mostly remain very simplistic and therefore also somewhat predictable . Aside from its horrible bleak ' 70's Moscow look , this movie is a quite good looking one , with professional looking sets and costumes . No doubt that this was quite a cheap movie to make but for most of the time this doesn't show on screen . Directing-wise the movie is quite flawed , as some of the sequences don't flow in well with each other and the movie features some little mistakes , such as a boom-mike hanging in frame . Leonid Gaidai was a director who felled comfortable within the comedy genre and worked with a lot of famous Soviet comedians during his career . This movie is perhaps his best known - and most popular one . The actors also didn't convinced much within this movie but luckily saying your lines convincingly isn't the most needed required for a comical movie . Nothing too horrible but also far from the best that the genre has to offer .
Ridicoules concept makes ridiculous movie .	It's as easy as 1 + 1 = 2 . This movie features a ridiculous concept and therefor the movie as a whole is a ridiculous one to watch . The title " Danny the Dog " should already say enough . Beats me why these fine actors ever agreed to appear in this movie . No , I seriously didn't hated watching this movie but I can't really understand either why so many people love this movie . Yes , well it is a different and original movie but its concept just doesn't ever make me take this movie seriously . The movie tries to blend material arts action with serious drama . It could had worked out and it does work out in several other , mainly Asian , movies but I didn't found the story of this movie to be gripping and believable and therefor it just didn't worked out for me . Two persons are taking Danny in their home and they don't seem to find it strange at all that he doesn't speak much and doesn't know and understand much of our world . Instead of finding out what happened to him and or where he comes from and don't notify the right authorities , like any other normal person in such a situation would do , they feed him and care him and take the time to learn him things about everything in the world and emotions and feelings . They adopt him like a son and brother , even though they know nothing about him . The movie begins fine and stylish but as soon as the drama and serious plot line of the movie kicks in the movie becomes quite dreadful to watch . After an hour it starts to take up pace again and the movie begins to get better to watch again when the action starts to kick in again . Louis Leterrier is obviously a capable action director as he also showed " The Incredible Hulk " . This movie was his directorial debut , after working as assistant director in several big productions before . I must say that he could had done a lot worse directing wise . It's not the movie its style or directing fault that the movie isn't really a great or effective one . It the typical new French action and enjoyable style of directing , which also can be seen in for instance movies from Luc Besson , who also produced and wrote this movie and no doubt helped out fellow Frenchman Louis Leterrier , with who he had worked before on several occasions . You could say that its the action that still makes this movie good and interesting . Everything else is just blah . Of course it are also the actors that still makes this a watchable movie . Not that Jet Li is a wonderful actor but Bob Hoskins and Morgan Freeman are of course always excellent in any movie . Jet Li is mostly there to provide the movie with its spectacular action and he shows why he should never been given too much lines . A mixed bag but the movie remains mostly watchable thanks to its action sequences from Jet Li and directing style from Louis Leterrier .
Nothing too bad but the Dr . Mabuse series was obviously declining .	This is still a perfectly watchable Dr . Mabuse entry but unfortunately it's mainly the story this time that prevents this movie from being amongst the best in the long series of Dr . Mabuse movies , that started in 1922 with Fritz Lang's " Dr . Mabuse , der Spieler - Ein Bild der Zeit " and ended in 1972 with Jesus Franco's " Dr . M schlägt zu " ( unless you also count the unofficial 1990 entry " Dr . M " . ) . Wolfgang Preiss reprises his role as Dr . Mabuse for the third time and the character Joe Como and the actor portraying him , Lex Barker , from the previous Dr . Mabuse-entry " Im Stahlnetz des Dr . Mabuse " return in this movie again . It's a much needed presence since there isn't much that's connecting this movie with the previous entries . Perhaps it has to do with the lack of the presence of Dr . Mabuse in this movie and the absence of Gert Fröbe that this movie isn't as good as the previous entries . It also is quite confusing again that actors from previous Dr . Mabuse return in this movie but in totally different roles . The story just isn't much good or special this time , which is the main reason why this movie is unfortunately not as good as any of the other previously released Dr . Mabuse movies . There is no real criminal master-plan by Dr . Mabuse this time , at least nothing too solid or believable . The first part of the movie is just about an invisible man who spies and scares a girl . Oh that crook ! This is not what in essence the original Dr . Mabuse were all about . I also don't think that Fritz Lang would had been too happy with this movie . Yes , of course the movie does get better as it progresses though . The series sort of choose its own path during the ' 60's and it turned more into a funky typical ' 60's crime production . Sort of more like the James Bond movies , so to speak . Nothing wrong with this approach of course but you can wonder of it was the right approach for Dr . Mabuse movies , that in its earliest entries were still full with surrealism and were actually more horror movies then crime-mysteries . There also is a lack of mystery and thriller elements this time . At times it even feels like the movie is more like a comedy . Like always , it's kept a mystery throughout the movie who is Dr . Mabuse , even though he is being portrayed again by the same actor who played him 2 times before . Quite silly of course . Nothing too bad , just not as good when being compared to any of the previous Dr . Mabuse movies .
A decent movie but hardly worthy of its good reputation on here .	This is a decent movie at its very best . It's very well watchable but as a genre movie its too lacking in its story and execution of it . With all of its praising this movie is receiving on here , it surely is a bit of an overrated movie . Problem for me while watching this movie was that I knew that this was simply the type of movie in which nothing is what it seems , which made me all the more aware all of the time , making me see lots of the twists within this movie from miles away already . The movie was just being a bit too obvious with its intentions and what directions it was heading toward . The movie therefore wasn't really being very surprising , despite having more than a few twists to its story . Also a bit too many perhaps . It's best to have one big twist at the ending than to have multiple twists throughout its entire story . It's just less effective and powerful . Guess its a good enough first theatrical directorial movie debut for Bill Paxton , who doesn't provide the movie with a good style or distinctive atmosphere but nevertheless sets the right mood and knows to tell the story , despite the story not being all that great . The movie never made it to most cinemas though and its not hard to see way . The movie is too typical for its genre and it doesn't stand out in any way . Movies like this get made by the dozens each year , especially during those days and there simply are far better and more surprising genre movies to watch out there . For his first big movie Bill Paxton knew to get some big names involved . It makes you wonder though if they would had also agreed to this project hadn't Paxton been involved in it . Matthew McConaughey and Powers Boothe are some big name actors but also the crew has some big names in it , such as the director of photography Bill Butler . It's also hard to see what the movie and its story try to achieve really . Are we supposed to be sympathetic at the end and which side are we supposed to be on ? The movie perhaps in the long run leaves more questions than answers really , which makes the movie a bit of an unsatisfying one . No , it's no bad movie but it's also far from a must-see as well really .
Those clowns are killing me !	Well , you know you shouldn't really take this movie seriously , as soon as you read the movie its title . As long as you don't take anything about this movie too seriously , you will surely have a good and fun time watching this , just like I did . " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " of course features a ridicules concept in which aliens who happen to look like clowns come down to Earth , to kill and terrorize . The movie just simply doesn't bother to try to make sense with its story . It's basically a fun and deliberately ridicules B-movie , that mixes comedy , horror and science-fiction . But it's an ' 80's movie , so the special effects aren't much good unfortunately . Luckily the killer klowns are better looking . I don't know , they just have a certain look over them that just makes them look great . They are not simply actors with clown make-up on , it are complicated big masks ( after all , it are aliens ) , with no doubt also some animatronics in them for the support of certain facial expressions . It's obvious Stephen Chiodo is no great director . No doubt his brothers , who served as writers and producers on this film also helped him out though . The Chiodo brothers are best known in Hollywood as puppet makers , masks makers , creature designers , puppeteers and whatever more . They worked on some big productions in their career and they obviously know what they are doing . Luckily they don't bother with directing movies anymore , for the directing and storytelling for this movie is simply just lacking . It's nothing too great , impressive or memorable but it simply is some good simple fun to watch .
Weak attempt by Bruckheimer to try and win an Oscar .	After making big successful action blockbusters such as " Con Air " , " Armageddon " and " The Rock " , it was obvious that producer Jerry Bruckheimer tried to go for an Oscar with this little dramatic movie . A weak attempt . The movie could have been good but it doesn't get any better as average . Who's to blame ? Probably the director Joel Schumacher , he delivers a shallow drama without any emotions . Or maybe it's because of the main character . The character of Veronica Guerin never really becomes interesting or completely understandable with as a result that the viewer doesn't really get emotionally involved . Director Schumacher tries to make Veronica's character a warm loving mother and wife but fails completely in this and all the families scene's feel more like an obligation . Another crucial mistake is that in all the advertisements and also in the beginning of the movie it was told that Veronica Guerin was murdered . Now I'm sure that this is common knowledge in Ireland but I can assure you that it isn't in the rest of Europe and especially not outside of it . In a way it already ruined the movie for me . I know that this movie isn't made for entertainment but to tell Veronica's story instead but surely they could have made it more interesting for the viewer to watch by not telling how it would end . I know that Cate Blanchett was much praised for her role but quite frankly I didn't liked her all that much . But Maybe the reason for that had more to do with Veronica's character and not so much with Cate Blanchett's acting skills . But all in all this movie is not a punishment to watch but like I said before it simply doesn't get any better as average .
Unusual Steve Martin comedy that just doesn't fully work out .	The movie doesn't really have the usual typical sort of comedy you would expect from an ' 80's Steve Martin movie . It's humor is often more in its little things , or one word that is spoken in its dialog . The movie doesn't build up to its jokes like a normal comedy would do but often things just come out of nowhere . It doesn't make this movie as humor filled as you would perhaps expect but it does make the movie somewhat original and somehow also real pleasant . Too bad that the story is such a weak one . The story doesn't seem to have one clear focus and subplots are not handled well enough . This has as a result that some moments and even characters just don't work out properly for the movie . It makes the movie also really a weak one to watch at times . The love-story just was too weak and not well developed enough . Judith Ivey is also supposed to be in her mid-20's in this movie but instead looks closer to 40 , while Steve Martin also works around a bit too much without his shirt on . It are mainly small things such as these that also makes the movie irritating at parts as well as weak , simply since it doesn't work out all as well as obviously intended . This movie could had been a great homage to the lonely guy but instead its story is all over the place , jumping from the one thing to another . It doesn't really give a good or fair portrayal of the average lonely guy , who normally is shy and just not the way Steve Martin portrays it in this movie . Charles Grodin is perhaps way better but he's just only playing second violin in this movie . Still a pleasant enough little movie to watch but just no genre classic , since it has way too many weaknesses , mainly concerning its story .
An OK thriller that really lacks tension and a good pace .	Who will ever remember " The Missing " in 5 years from now ? Probably nobody . Although it is far from a bad movie , it also is hardly a rememberable one . Visually there is nothing wrong with this movie . The sceneries are beautiful and so are the costumes . The movie is supported by a nice James Horner musical score , even though he once more heavily borrows from his own earlier work but it doesn't really matter since it fits the movie just fine . The story felt kind of messy probably because of the lack of a good pace . The movie takes just a bit too long to get things going and once they're going the moments are not tense or exciting enough . The movie is saved by a good cast . Especially the female cast is top class . Cate Blachett is an excellent leading lady and Evan Rachel Wood really surprised me in a positive way . Val Kilmer has a cameo in the movie and I have to admit that I didn't recognized him the first time because I wasn't really paying attention to him and was surprised to see his name appear at the end titles . Not a must see in any way and also not really recommendable even though it is not a bad movie .
Some at times good slapstick moments in an outdated , not entirely great movie .	This is a fairly decent , typical Hal Roach slapstick comedy , which guest star's Stan Laurel , Oliver Hardy and James Finlayson as Asylum inmates . Real main characters of the movie though are played by Max Davidson and Lillian Elliott and with Spec O'Donnell as their stupid looking son . Especially Spec O'Donnell is great in his role who carriers the brilliant name ' Love's Greatest Mistake ' in the movie . Basically all he does in the movie is look stupid but he does this extremely good and because of that he is really fun to watch . The movie has some typical slapstick moments that are most of the time fun to watch but never truly hilarious . The way it is brought to the screen is simply too outdated for todays standards , also compared to other slapstick comedies made from the same time period . Especially the editing is lacking . There lies the main problem of the movie ; it's too lacking in it's humor and style . It certainly does have its moments but it is no essential viewing for the fans of slapstick comedy from the ' 20's . Perhaps still only for some , for the fairly small Stan Laurel , Oliver Hardy and James Finlayson roles in the movie .
Not surreal , just a movie without a story .	Well , first of all I really liked the earlier surrealistic movie " Un chien andalou " by Luis Buñuel but I guess this movie just sort of went too far for me . Story-wise , this is just an extreme odd piece to watch . Halve of the time you really don't understand what is going on and what some of the intentions are . But I guess that's also part of the charm of this movie and a reason why you can watch it over and over again , exploring and understanding more of its themes and surrealistic elements every time you watch it . It's a movie that is also obviously criticizing some themes such as against the bourgeois and religion as well as some social critiques . On that level I liked this movie , since it was also effective with it as well . Perhaps you also shouldn't view this film as an actual film but more as a piece of art , you can watch from different perspective and unleash your own interpretations on it . As a movie this one is just too lacking , since its an at times almost impossible movie to watch and follow . The dialog and some of the sequences just seem to pop out of nowhere , without making an obvious connection to the movie as a whole . And as strange as it might sound after criticizing its story , this movie just has too much of a story . " Un chien andalou " was a great dream-like surreal movie , without a story in it . This movie follows a main plot-line with characters in it and does feature dialog . Perhaps I would had liked this film more if it was made as an entirely silent movie instead . It would had most likely strengthened its surrealistic elements . The movie is now instead not surrealistic enough for my liking . Probably one of the most bizarre movies you'll ever see , without understanding it .
You can already tell by the title what for a kind of movie this is . . .	The movie its title is in my opinion extremely lame and so is the humor in this movie . It's a very easy and quite unimaginative parody of " Saving Private Ryan " . Sure , there are some funny moment but mostly the movie is filled with some , let's say not so subtle humor . Still this short movie certainly deserves credit . It deserves credit for how it looks . Visually the movie is nicely made and nicely imitates some of the scene's from " Saving Private Ryan " . Unfortunately the movie is quite short . I have a feeling that with a longer running time with some more ' story ' in it the movie could had really become interesting and entertaining . The movie is certainly watchable but only recommendable when you have also seen " Saving Private Ryan " . Only then you'll be able to understand the ' jokes ' . Still this movie is not must see and it's not exactly the worlds smartest and greatest movie parody around .
All in all really nothing too bad .	Even though this movie picks a less subtle approach than its predecessor " The Amazing Collosal Man " , this movie still works out as a rather good and enjoyable B-movie . Basically there is even less story than the last time and the movies starts off were the first movie stopped . You can say that this movie is more of the same , since it doesn't offer anything new really but its welcomed , since its basically some good entertainment . It's definitely way better than your average B-monster movie attempt . It remains rather amusing to see a 60 feet man causing mayhem , no matter how simple and ridicules it sounds . Of course the movie gets rather ridicules at times , also with its characters and dialogs but what else could be expected from a movie like this . The first movie still sort of picked a more emotional monster approach , in the same way as for instance was the case with classic monster movies such as " Frankenstein " and " The Wolf Man " . This movie still somewhat has a ' realistic ' approach feeling over it but the emotional elements involving the main character are pretty much gone by now because of the reason that the condition of him has influenced his brain , as already was the case at the ending of the first movie , causing him to be more of a growling monster this time . The movie is directed by the same director ( Bert I . Gordon ) of the first movie but yet the movie does not use the same actors . Sort of makes you wonder why , as if the actors from the first movie were classy actors who were in the position the make demands and ask for an high salary . It's not a big issue though that the actors are different ones this time , even though its definitely true that the acting in this movie is worse than was the case in the first movie . The special effects are just as effective looking as they already were in the first movie . Of course it doesn't look like much special by todays standards but back in the ' 50's this must have really scared some people and must have been amazed by some of the movie its effects . Even now the movie still remains sort of somewhat scary at times because of the make-up effects and growls of the amazing colossal man , or beast as this movie its title calls him . It's definitely more of an horror movie than the first movie was , that mainly picked a science-fiction approach . It doesn't feature as much action as the movie its title might suggest and actually when you compare this movie to the first one , you'll see that both actually feature just as much action . This might be a disappointing aspect , since the movie its title obviously suggest some bigger , better action . Oh well , of course back in the ' 50's they just didn't had a good idea yet of how to create an action filled summer blockbuster . More of the same but therefor also just as good and watchable as the first movie .
Choses to be sentimental instead of entertaining .	OK Superman is back ( and I'm glad he is ) ! But not with a blast . It's a recent trend in superhero movies to give the story and its character a deeper meaning and more realistic emotions . Most recent example of this is of course " Batman Begins " and other examples are " Spider-Man " and " Hulk " . " Superman Returns " also tries to put this in the movie . It however does not suit the main character and is not true to the spirit and atmosphere of the other original previous Superman movies . The movie takes itself far too serious with as a result that it isn't always a fun or entertaining one to watch . It tries to be more than just another superhero movie but it never knows to fully convince . The movie in the beginning takes it time to explain the story for the viewers who haven't seen the ' 78 original and its sequel , on which this movie is a direct sequel again . I can't say that I think this was the right choice . The movie would had been better of if the action , so to speak , started off immediately and didn't wasted any time on re-introducing all of the characters . The movie does however still show lots of respect to the original , mainly with its use of music . The opening credits are done in the exact same style as the original and they also didn't changed a not with its music , which really was the right thing to do . Let's be honest , the opening credits of the original ' 78 " Superman " movie are perhaps the most spectacular and most awesome opening credits of all time , which is mainly thanks to the John Williams music . Director Bryan Singer and John Ottman also seemed to realize and understand this and they use the John Williams at the exact right moments in the movie . John Ottman , on his turn , also composed a wonderful and suiting musical score on his own , complete with a wonderful new Superman theme . The movie feels like two separate stories . One story concentrates on Superman / Clark Kent and the other on his eternal villain Lex Luthor , who is out of prison again , due to the absence of Superman during his court hearing . The movie doesn't feel as a complete whole and it is not until when the two stories mix that the movie starts to take pace and become truly interesting to watch . This however happens too late into the movie to completely save it . The story itself is also very simple , a bit too simple for my taste . It also lacks some of the fundamental things a Superman movie needs . Superman movie needs to be fun , colorful and perhaps even a bit campy . Bryan Singer's Superman world is mostly dark . Also the humor is wrong . The movie does have humor in it but not the right kind . Superman movies needs slapstick , over-the-top sort of humor . The humor and atmosphere in this movie really doesn't suit the Superman character . It makes you wonder ; Perhaps isn't the Superman character a bit too old fashioned for the 21th century ? The movie concentrates too much on the dramatic and realistic aspects of the movie , such as the whole love triangle and problems between Superman , Lois Lane and her fiancée played by James Marsden , which is far from interesting or compelling . The movie still could had a great one , despite its plot , if it had been a more entertaining one . The movie is lacking in some real good action . Basically the biggest and most spectacular action sequence of the movie is already in the beginning ( the plane sequence ) . After that the movie and its action slows down and the end of the movie could had really used a big and spectacular finale . Instead now the movie doesn't know how and when to end . The ending is overlong , over-dramatic and completely unnecessary . They could had basically summed things up in 5 minutes but the movie chooses an overlong sentimental ending instead . Brandon Routh is perfectly cast as Superman and he also really looks like Christopher Reeve . As expected Kevin Spacey steals the show as Lex Luthor but his presence is perhaps not as spectacular or as memorable as Gene Hackman's . Kate Bosworth is really miscast as Lois Lane . Lois Lane should be a strong , independent woman with lots of life experience . With all respect but Kate Bosworth looks like a fragile teenager . Visually the movie is great and spectacular . All of the special effects are top-class ( Oscar nod , no doubt ) and they provide the movie with its best moments . I'm glad Superman is back on the silver screen but the the movie itself is nothing too remarkable . In the end it's a pretty forgettable , overlong movie , that is too simple , even while it tries to be so much more than just a superhero movie . I don't mean to sound cruel but you're better of waiting for the DVD . It's not really a movie worth seeing in cinemas .
Good , interesting subject but not exactly a groundbreaking or shocking movie .	Pedophillia is perhaps still the only remaining taboo that hasn't been fully broken in the world of movies . Over the years already lots of taboo's has been broken in movies ; Homosexuality , a look into the life and mind of a real serial killer , sex in movies , transvestitism , just to name a few subjects . Most of these subjects took years to be fully broken . " The Woodsman " is one of the first true attempts to handle the subject of pedophilia , in the way as it does in this movie . It provides us a view in the life of a pedophile and helps us more to understand what it is that drives him . Yes , it does give us a good view into the life of a pedophile . The main character in the movie hates himself for being a pedophile and wants to be ' normal ' . However the urge to be around children is simply incontrollable for him and even though he doesn't want to , he can't restrain himself . It is mainly thanks to Kevin Bacon's performance that helps us to understand his character . The pain and perhaps also embarrassment is notable in his eyes , in every movement he makes and action he takes . An even better performance is given by Kyra Sedgwick , who isn't a very well known actress and her perhaps only true mainstream movie is " Born on the Fourth of July " . Bacon and Sedgewick are in real life perhaps the only still truly happily married Hollywood-couple around . The subject is groundbreaking but the movie most certainly isn't . The movie is less than 90 minutes short which simply isn't enough to provides us with a full understanding view of a pedophile . It also never goes really far enough and it feels like the movie is restraining itself . Even though it is a shocking subject , the movie itself never shocks . There also are too many underdeveloped side plot-lines , such as the whole thing with the ' Candy ' character . Yes , I do realize and understand that lots of elements in the movie were supposed to be symbolic and were to be left unexplained but it doesn't do much good for what the movie truly tries to achieve ; to provides us a good , realistic and UNDERSTANDABLE view into the life and mind of a pedophile . It's obvious that Nicole Kassell is still a beginning director that doesn't have much experience yet . She is obviously still in search for the good and right style for her movies . She is close but not quite there yet . I'm interested to see how her style develops and I am looking forward to her new projects , because it's obvious that she has talent . It's obvious for this movie that she was inspired by the Nicolas Roeg movie " Don't Look Now " ( 1973 ) . It's filled with a sort of similar atmosphere and way of story telling and also has symbolism in it . She even tries to recreate the famous sex scene from the Nicolas Roeg movie . This movie is a good real first step of breaking the taboo and mysteries surrounding the pedophilia subject . Without a doubt , more movies like this one , about the same subject will be made in the near future . Maybe not in 2 or 3 years but certainly within 5 or 10 from now .
Believe it or not . . . this movie is pretty good !	This movie is easily Wood's best ! Of all the movies Ed Wood has written this one makes ' the most sense ' , even though the story and concept are still ridiculous of course . Yet the movie works as an horror movie , or like Ed wood would call it ; ' a supernatural thriller ' . The acting probably is the only thing that is truly bad about this movie . Lot's of people praise Bela Lugosi for his role in this but I think that's truly offensive to a great actor like him . Lugosi was hundred times better in movies like " Dracula " and " The Black Cat " . Bela Lugosi and Tor Johnson are terribly overacting in this ! Also it's too bad about the octopus scene's . It all was terrible fake and the use of archive footage was done horribly . The dialog and characters are the best Wood has ever written . Even though they are far from supreme , they work very well in the movie . Wood even manages to come up with some memorable quotes . This movie really doesn't deserve such a low rating and my guess is that more than halve the people who have rated this movie poorly had not even seen this movie but just rated it low because it's an Ed Wood movie . Be fair people ! I recognize a bad movie when I see one and this movie most certainly is not bad ! Even if you're not familiar with Wood's work but are a fan of classic horror movie's , you'll appreciate this movie . It really is not bad and works well as an horror movie . The story flows well and the ending is build up very good . By Wood's standards , an excellent movie !
Formalaic , though entertaining .	Of course this movie is a simple version of " The Da Vinci Code " but at least it's more entertaining to watch . It has just as many vague and unlikely clues at some unlikely historical places and on historical items , that lead to even more clues about the location of a large treasure . The whole concept of treasure hunting is of course one that really speaks to the imagination and this movie greatly takes advantage of this , by putting in the movie every formulaic element you would expect from a movie like this one . It's not that the movie is bad but it just isn't anything fresh or renewing either . It's an Indiana Jones and " The Da Vinci Code " wannabe that doesn't add enough on its own to the genre . Nothing wrong with a little bit ' borrowing ' from other movies , as long as it works good for the movie and its story . " National Treasure " is a movie that entertains but that's basically all there really can be said about the movie . The story is fun and adventurous and the movie features some good actors that are being played by some surprising big names . The movie has some good moments and action sequences , that aren't too big ( the movie most certainly does not look like an $100 , 000 , 000 movie ) but are entertaining nevertheless . The movie is good looking with a good visual style and a nice suiting action score from specialist Trevor Rabin . It's a bit of a shame that the movie is just so formulaic . Nothing in the movie comes as a surprise and it features all of the typical elements you would expect from a movie like this one . At times the movie could had really used some more originality to make it more entertaining - , or at least less predictable to watch . Like I said before , the movie is still good and fun enough to watch but it could had really been so much better with a tiny bit more of originality of its own . The characters are also quite formulaic , though it fits the genre well I guess ; a friend turns villain , a love interest and a comical sidekick . Why do movies always think they should have comical sidekicks ? It's starting to get really annoying , especially if the characters aren't even funny , like in this movie is the case . It sort of helps though that all of the characters are being played by some well known names . I like Nicolas Cage and he shows that he can also play a convincing main ' heroic ' character . Sean Bean plays the villain and like expected he does this in a great way , like only he can play a villain . The movie further more also features Jon Voight , Harvey Keitel and Christopher Plummer in some smaller roles . All good fun , as long as you don't expect something original - or to be blown away by it all .
Standard but well acted movie .	Basically this movie isn't anything new or refreshing , I mean movies like these are made dozens of times every year . This is one of those movies were not an awful lot is wrong with but its just to unoriginal or not refreshing enough to make this movie a must see . It's one of those typical movies . The movie is a standard police / crime movie in which the main characters has to solve a case . No the movie most certainly isn't filled with any new or original moments and elements but it serves its purpose well and the movie is technically not badly made . Finally a movie in which Rutger Hauer can show again how a great actor he is . Also Paulina Porizkova really isn't a bad actress despite the fact that she already had received a Razzie nomination for her role in " Her Alibi " from 1989 . Hauer and Porizkova make a great screen duo and make the story believable and likable enough . The story and the sidelines of it are interesting enough to fill 95 minutes . None of the dramatic and perhaps cliché sidelines of the story are ever getting distracting , which of course is a positive thing to say . Yes of course you're ten times better of watching a good English detective series but this movie certainly is a watchable one , despite the fact that it isn't anything new or really special .
A piece of animated movie history .	This is an historically little classic from early movie-maker J . Stuart Blackton . It's always interesting to watch a movie that is over - or near 100 years old . Movie-making obviously was still a profession yet in development which let to some many experimental little productions . This movie is one of those early experimental movies , that for one of the first times ever shows us a couple of fully moving animated characters , that also interact with each other . Of course nothing really happens in this movie . It's just merely used as a medium to show off the skills - and possibilities of this new genre . The movie features a couple of animated persons that get drawn by J . Stuart Blackton himself . The characters interact simply to each other . It doesn't make this movie very entertaining to watch , although the bit with the dog and clown was pretty amusingly done . The animations themselves are good and the speed is more than great . All of the movements feel right and natural . A real big accomplishment . It's hard to rate a thing like this . It obviously is a little piece of early movie history and is simply a must-see because its widely regarded as the first ever animated movie . But the movie itself is hardly interesting or amusing enough to watch . Nothing really happens and thank goodness that the movie doesn't run over 3 minutes . I therefor go with a safe .
Extremely average .	With so many good English detectives series out there , there is absolutely no reason why you should go and watch this movie . If you have seen a couple of English detectives you will notice how extremely average this movie truly is . The story is extremely average in every way and the plot twists are silly and mostly predictable , with as a result that the movie never really becomes tense . It really is a movie that already has been done dozens of times and uses too many clichés . Average however is not the same as bad of course . Sandra Bullock is a strong female lead but her character is not always likable throughout the movie . And the ' secret ' from the past she is carrying with her ; Silly and really unneeded . Real discovery of the movie are youngsters Michael Pitt and Ryan Gosling . Watchable but most certainly not a must see .
Not a great comedy but a pretty good sweet romantic movie .	It feels like the movie was trying to hard to be comical , with formulaic predictable comical moments , fast directing and editing and a typical comical musical score , that desperately tries to make some sequences look and feel more comical . The movie comically mostly relies on cheap gay jokes . With handling gay subjects in American movies always feel 10 years behind in time . It doesn't make the story and movie feel like the most original or clever one . The movie does have its fun and humorous moments but its not ever anything too hilarious . Luckily the movie does work better on its romantic levels . In that regard this movie is a pretty enjoyable and sweet one . It's still a well made movie . Seems to me that Damon Santostefano really is not bad director . Things flow well and it makes this movie a rather enjoyable 98 minutes . The movie has the power to make you forget how incredibly formulaic it all is while you're watching it but in the end you'll realize that this movie really isn't the best or most original movie around in its genre . Also the standard bittersweet ending doesn't help much to this . Matthew Perry isn't good enough to carry this movie . It was just too much his Chandler role from " Friends " all over again . It was as if he wasn't even trying to play a totally different comedy character . A different haircut is simply just not enough . Dylan McDermott on the other hand was simply good in his role and so was Neve Campbell , whose career unfortunately seems to go nowhere . But the supporting cast is perhaps even better and more impressive with high caliber actors such as Oliver Platt , John C . McGinley , Rick Gomez and Bob Balaban , though they certainly aren't their best playing comical roles , with the exception of John C . McGinley . who is great in basically every kind of role . Too bad his and other roles in the movie are too insignificant . Very well watchable , despite being not the best or most original in its genre .
Not a bad movie but its propaganda elements are too obvious and quite ridicules .	This movie does provide a good and realistic view of French POW's in a German camp . The story and its characters are gritty and those are the main reasons why this movie is quite a good one . It however is too bad that it's too obvious that this movie was a piece of allied WW II propaganda . This movie was made in the middle of WW II and it's quite ridicules to see how incredibly black and white the story and its characters are at times . The Nazi's are made to look incredibly ruthless and without an heart and conscience while all the French prisoners want to do is practice their religion , be kind to each other and make the best out of it . The story and its characters are so incredibly black and white at times that the movie becomes quite ridicules and not a credible one to watch at times . The movie also obviously tries to send out a message . To POW to keep fighting and resisting against the Nazi's , to French citizens to revolt against the oppressors ( according to the movie , they should even burn their houses down , just like the Russians used to do , so the Germans will find nothing but ashes along their way ) and to help the resistance in any way they can . The whole message and propaganda elements in the movie are all way too obvious . It makes this movie really a ridicules one to watch at times . There are some good actors in the movie but due to the simple way of directing and storytelling , none of them really shines . The talents of Gene Kelly ( in one of his first movie roles ) and Peter Lorre are wasted in this movie . Still I can't rate this movie any lower than a , since the story and atmosphere are quite good and also have some nice elements in it . I guess it's a pretty good though rushed , early , low budget WW II movie that intends well but is too obvious with its propaganda . Not much interesting is really happening in the movie and the action toward the ending comes too late to makes this movie a better paced - and in general a better and more interesting movie to watchA watchable movie that however by no means is a must-see or a really recommendable one .
Columbo's skills travel to Mexico .	I don't really know what it is with Ted Post and Columbo movies but the two movies that he directed are also both ( this one included ) among the least likely ones . Their stories are not really believable . In his first Columbo movie " Columbo : A Case of Immunity " there is an unbelievable story of Columbo trying to solve the murder committed by a person with diplomatic immunity on a premises were the LAPD simply has no jurisdiction and in this movie the in Mexico stranded Columbo is called in by the Mexican police to help and solve a murder committed on the bookkeeper of a famous former matador . Oh well it doesn't mean that his two Columbo movies aren't good and fun to watch but it obviously also doesn't rank them among the best Columbo movie entries . It's a movie that still features the usual successful Columbo formula , making this still a perfectly watchable Columbo movie obviously . It's not the first time Columbo travels to a strange foreign country and gets mixed in with a murder . It places the Columbo character once more out of his usual familiar environment , which of course provides the movie with some good comical moments , in which Columbo has difficulties adapting himself to the Mexican ways . He's also walking around in sunny , hot Mexico with his complete suit and trademark raincoat on . Unlike most other Columbo movies , this one doesn't feature many well known actors in the key parts . Sure Ricardo Montalban has done lots of work for TV that he is known for but he's not really the star that usually plays the killer in a Columbo movie . It doesn't mean that he's horrible or anything like that in this but yet the movie still feels as if it could had really benefited from a better and well known actor opposite Peter Falk . A slightly below average , though enjoyable , Columbo movie .
Joyce Van Patten's 15 minutes of fame .	Joyce Van Patten ( yes , indeed Dick Van Patten's sister ) is a big unknown actress who mostly works for TV related projects . Perhaps this was her biggest role as of yet ? It also is apparent why she mostly works for TV and doesn't star in many movies ; she just isn't a very great actress . In most cases a Columbo movie features a well known and established actor in the role of the murderer , who usually has some very good interaction with Peter Falk and his sluggish Lt . Columbo character . Obviously this just isn't the case with this Columbo movie , which is also the foremost reason why this isn't among the best the Columbo series of movies have to offer . But of course the acting is not just the only problem . Another serious problem is the movie its directing , which is way too simple and formulaic . Robert Douglas also used to be a director who spend almost his whole career working for television , directing many different episodes for many different TV-series , of which some were popular and of which some where just plain unknown . His directing style is typical for TV and uses lots of static shots , close-ups , zooms and simple establishing shots . Also most of the supporting actors are just plain horrible in this movie , so it can also be said that Robert Douglas was not really a great actors director either . It's not like the story is bad though . It's actually a quite good written episode and story-wise even a step-up from writer Peter S . Feibleman's previous already fine written Columbo movie " Columbo : Fade in to Murder " , staring William Shatner . The movie also features some good and the right amount of relieving humor . You can say that it's the story that really saves this movie from being a bad movie but also just can't prevent it that this movie is a tad bit below par , when being compared to most of the other Columbo movies . It luckily also isn't among the longest Columbo movies , since the movie tends to be a bit overlong in parts and starts to drag during some of its sequences . It often could had gotten more swiftly to the point . Even though the movie is still pleasant to watch , it just isn't the fastest going one .
Good premise and a promising beginning but the last halve of the movie is ridicules .	The movie starts of as a really promising science-fiction / thriller in the same style as movies such as " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " . Judging by just the first halve of the movie , this movie could had really grown into a science-fiction classic , if only the second halve of the movie had been just as good instead of just utterly ridicules and unlikely as it was . " Village of the Damned " , of which this movie loosely is a sequel , already wasn't exactly a masterpiece but it still grew out to be a classic , mainly thanks to its atmosphere and original story . " Children of the Damned " is in many ways similar to its predecessor . It has a promising concept and story but the execution of it all is just plain weak at times , which makes " Children of the Damned " nothing more than just an average science-fiction flick that just doesn't leave a lasting - or good impression . I loved were the movie was heading to in the beginning . The story seemed promising and it all seemed like good enough material to make a good and pleasant horror like science-fiction movie with . But then suddenly the movie takes a not so positive turn , from the moment on when the children hide in the church . The story becomes utterly ridicules from that moment on and on top of that it also becomes uninteresting and not always totally understandable . I still don't exactly understand what the purpose and plan of the children was because the second halve of the movie is told so weak and ridicules . The movie had potential but all of that is ruined in its second halve . The acting was quite solid and the movie had some good and interesting characters in it , that deserved a better character-treatment . There still are some good and memorable moments in the movie and fans of British science-fiction / horror will still find plenty to enjoy in this movie but it just isn't one of those movies that leaves a very big impression . The story-telling , in especially its second halve , is far too weak for that . Just as bad / good as its predecessor .
The title is probably the most brilliant thing about this .	Probably more famous and hyped than the Pamela Anderson / Tommy Lee stolen honeymoon sex tape , here it is ; the notorious Paris Hilton sex-tape . When you have no talent at anything and you're a bored , rich , young , famous girl and you're desperate for attention and fame , what do you do ? You make a porn video . At least that's what Paris Hilton and her then boyfriend Rick Salomon did . Although not as ' hot ' , shocking and much talked about when it first hit the web , " 1 Night in Paris " still remains an unique and amazing piece of work . Not in terms of quality of course but more because of the fact that it's the ' private ' tape of a well known public figure ; Paris Hilton . It makes you wonder what everyone involved was thinking . I mean after all , these persons have parents and expectingly still a sense of dignity . But fact is that this movie has done no bad for Paris ' career . She's more in the news than ever before and even got some acting jobs and a signing career after this . Would she still have gotten all these jobs if the tape never existed ? I don't think anyone can answer that but it most definitely at least helped her ' career ' and definitely satisfied her lust for media-attention . . . for the moment at least . Makes you wonder what she will come up next when her acting and signing career dry-up . As for the movie itself , it's sort of funny to see how Paris has more eye for the camera than for her bed-partner . Poor Rick Salmon . Paris has more the hots for the camera than for him but that is no surprise really . If you want to watch this movie pure for its adult elements , you're definitely better of watching other adult ( amateur ) movies . The movie and the sex in it really isn't of very high quality . No real passion or spectacular love making here . It's hard to rate a thing like this , since it isn't really a movie or documentary ( somehow this movie is credited as one over here . ) or whatever else . It also isn't of very high quality , in terms of both camera-work and lighting and stuff as well as the adult elements . It however is a well known and hyped piece of work , since it features a well known person in it . I therefor rate this a ' safe ' 6 . This movie will probably go down in history and will be remembered and talked about for years to come .
Absurd comedy !	This is a totally absurd comedy , with many silly humor in it , that in a way makes this a little irresistible movie . The movie features Peter Sellers in an early role . He plays three different characters in this movie , just the way he always liked it , including one female character . Sellers always had the power to play several different characters in the same movie , just as convincing and also let them convincingly interact with each other . Something other comedians impersonate but never succeeded at it as good as Peter Sellers . In a way it really is Sellers that makes this movie work . I can't imaging how this movie would had been without him . The answer is probably bad , very , very bad . For " The Mouse That Roared " is far from a good or clever comedy . It instead is a simple and silly one . The story is incredibly simple and the comical premise of the movie gets underused . It relies too heavily on its silly comical situations and silly characters , rather than its story or wittiness . The idea of the movie sounds really promising . Having a little bankrupt country , somewhere in the French Alps , who's still living somewhere in the 14th century , declaring war on ' modern ' America , in the hope that they will loose , so they will receive foreign aid . They head off to New York , with a couple of longbow-men . What they don't know is that New York is abandoned due to a nuclear weapon test . To everybody's surprise they succeed in capturing a new super-bomb and take some hostages with them back to Grand Fenwick , making them the victorious party of the war , to their own government's dismay . The movie is obviously a satire of the Cold War and the story also shows some indirect references to the later and inferior movie " The Producers ( 1968 ) " . However not all comical potential gets fully taken advantage off . The invasion of New York and the cultural difference between the two completely different worlds , could had been used better , to full comical potential . The movie is very short and that shows in the movie and its story - and its build up . It's filled with missed opportunities and not well enough developed comical situations . It makes " The Mouse That Roared " a sort of a lacking comedy , that could and should had been great but just isn't . Surely the movie entertains and some of the absurd moments are hilarious , so it still in its core remains a movie that is worth watching for a couple of laughs . Weirdest thing about the movie is that it is directed by Jack Arnold . A man who in the early ' 50's mostly got fame for directing some ( classic ) B-monster movies and science-fiction . It was like he was thinking ; Hey the ' 50's are almost over , lets find another genre to direct in . That's mostly how " The Mouse That Roared " feels ; a comedy experiment from a director who wasn't fully comfortable with the genre . Oh and by the way ; Jean Seberg can't act ! Highly annoying and distracting from the story . See if for its silliness and an early Peter Sellers , in good form .
Lame excuse to put as many stars in a movie as possible .	This is an incredibly simple movie with almost no-story present in it . The movie really feels like a lame excuse to show off with all of the stars that are present in the movie . Most of the stars play themselves in this movie . Some of them are in it for about 5 seconds . It's ridicules ! Yet in a way it also makes the movie irresistible to watch for the movie nut , like myself . The movie really features some great big stars of its period but also lots of one-day-fly's . no one now would had ever heard of . Big stars in this movie are Joan Crawford , Edward G . Robinson , Laurel & Hardy , ' Our Gang ' , Buster Keaton , Irene Dunne , Gary Cooper , Douglas Fairbanks Jr and Fay Wray , among others . Amazing the amount of celebrities present in this movie , yet only the comical actors feel really at place in it . The story is far from entertaining and the movie really relies on the purely the performances of the actors to make the movie work out entertaining . It has a couple of laughs and good one-liners as a result . The movie succeeds in some parts but also fails at others . It makes the movie an unbalanced one , though it still remains a perfect treat to watch to those who are familiar with most of the celebrity names attached to this movie .
Messy and not that funny .	Problem with this movie is that nothing in the movie really feels connected to each other . The story feels messy and weak . On top of that the supporting actors were also quite horrible in their roles . No , this is not the best Laurel & Hardy movie . It still is good for some laughs certainly but overall it's a disappointing movie to watch . The movie already begins weak and unfunny . The movie does get better as it progresses but it never reaches the same level as any of the other Laurel & Hardy movies . Another disappointment was Stan Laurel . He didn't seem to play his character with as much joy as he used to do and his acting was to be honest poor at times . Still watchable but not really recommendable , even though the movie does have its moments .
Almost completely unwatchable at times but it has a good story and way of storytelling .	Guess this sort of stuff just isn't my cup of tea . There are some weird and odd moments in this filmed ' stage ' performance of the Greek play The Bacchantes . Not everything made an awful lot of sense to me and that is the reason why to me some of the scene's were totally impossible to follow , making this movie an almost completely unwatchable one at times . Still the story is intriguing enough and so is the way it is told . The two main characters are extremely well performed by Will Shepherd and William Finley . The two of them also have some great stage chemistry together . The way Brian De Palma cut this movie entirely in split screen makes the story work even better and certainly doesn't make this movie a boring one to watch . There is always something happening and the split screen help to make the story and scene's work better since you can obviously show and tell more within 2 screens than in rather just 1 of course . It's an interesting , intriguing and certainly unusual project to watch . This sort of stuff isn't exactly my idea of having a good and fun time of watching something but it still was a good experience to watch , that certainly does have its moments .
Too serious for a Laurel & Hardy movie .	This movie is too serious for the comical Laurel & Hardy that we are so accustomed to and love so much . The movie tries to give the movie depth with as a result that Laurel and Hardy are not given enough opportunities to show their silly antics . I consider this movie to be more of a WW II movie than a comedy . This movie is a real piece of American WW II propaganda . The boys give everything to get enlisted , so they can do their part for Uncle Sam during the war , against the Japanese . And Laurel & Hardy chasing and fighting Nazi-spies ? Come on ! That just doesn't feel right . The movie really is too serious for Laurel & Hardy standards . The movie tries to create a movie with a real story and even attempt to give it all some depth . But that's not what Laurel & Hardy should be about . We want to see some silly naive harmless fun . Yes , of course the movie does have its comical and slapstick moments but the combination of it with the serious undertone of the movie just doesn't feel right . It does provide a fairly good view of how the average American town coped with the ongoing war , so from an historical point of view this movie still is an interesting one to watch . No must-see for the Laurel & Hardy lovers but also not a completely unwatchable movie . It really does have its moments and it never gets dull . Too bad that it's brought all way too serious and because of this Laurel & Hardy are also never really given the opportunity to shine , like the way they used to .
Overdone drama .	This is your typical average overdone MGM drama , with a sappy story and a fluffy look and feel all over it . Nevertheless , everything in it is done well enough to make this a good ( enough ) genre movie to watch . The movie is needlessly told as a flashback , which also makes us the viewers already aware of how the main story ends , in advance . Sometimes in cases this approach works well for a story but not for such a mediocre movie as this one I'm afraid . In the midst of all the formulaic drama there are some fine actors in the movie , that get to shine . Elizabeth Taylor is really great and to me she was the one that truly carried the movie , though in screen time it is perhaps Van Johnson who plays the real main role of the movie . The movie also has a supporting cast to die for ; Walter Pidgeon , Donna Reed , Eva Gabor and even a young Roger Moore in his first real notable movie role . I just wish that some of the character development would had been better though . Also the ' relationship ' between Charles Wills and Marion Ellswirth never gets developed well enough , though it plays an essential part in all of the drama in the movie , especially in the beginning and toward the ending of the movie . The movie is really typical for MGM ' 50's standards , meaning that the drama is heavy but the approach of it isn't always . The movie at times tends to be more cheerful than dramatic , which isn't always for the movie its own benefits . Toward the end the drama thickens , which especially gives the movie its ' overdone ' feeling , which also doesn't exactly make the movie more believable to watch . It's still a good enough drama to watch , just not one that will grab you . The movie uses some fine settings . Of course Paris is the perfect backdrop for a romantic movie and they used some nice locations in the movie ( not the Eiffel tower for a change , even though it's still featured on the movie its cover ) . Also the costumes are quite nice . Good enough for its genre and MGM ' 50's standards but that doesn't exactly mean that it's a highly recommendable one though .
A movie only made worth watching by its cast .	More was to be expected quite frankly from this Michael Moore political satire , poking fun at American society and politics . The movie did of course had its funny moments but the story was quite poorly done . Sorry Mr . Moore but the storytelling within this movie is just below average . Michael Moore obviously tried to make a comedy in a silly style but he just never goes all the way , presumably because he probably was too afraid his message wouldn't come across then . He also tries too hard to make the movie kick against several political issues , for which Moore is of course well known . It however doesn't always work out in this movie and it feels too forced . It also isn't always a good movie to watch since the way the main plot-line is told is highly unlikely . It feels like a too big coincidence all that Sheriff Bud B . Boomer and friends just happen to be involved in basically every aspect handled within the movie . This concept works in often lots of comedies but just not " Canadian Bacon " because of its quite messy storytelling . It made the movie painful to watch at times . What made the movie still perfectly watchable for me was its cast . John Candy , Alan Alda , Rhea Perlman , Kevin Pollak , Rip Torn , Kevin J . O'Connor , Bill Nunn , G . D . Spradlin , James Belushi , Dan Aykroyd , this movie has a true amazing comedy cast . They really uplifted the movie in my viewing experience . This was John Candy's last released movie and even though its not his best role out of his career , it's still a worthy one . It's silly concept and story also makes this movie worthwhile to watch in parts . It's of course quite funny to have a story involving America creating a sort of new cold war this time with Canadia , in order for the president to get reelected . It's even funnier to notice some parallels to the real world this present day and the Bush administration . So saying this movie is completely ineffective won't be fair . It also does some good job at times poking fun of American society , as well as the Canadian and all of their stereotypes . Of course Moore mostly kicks against the gun control , something he did of course much better and more effective later on in his documentary " Bowling for Columbine " , for which he won an Oscar . It's a watchable enough film , though you probably can't help ending up being slightly disappointed with it .
At best , an average typical horror flick , in the same style as the old Hammer movies .	Gordon Hessler was a director who made dozens of mostly unknown and mediocre movies but always with some well known ( horror ) names in it . This movie is also mediocre at best and stars horror icons Vincent Price and Christopher Lee . The concept of the movie is good , however the directing and unnecessary complicated storytelling make this movie nothing more than an average typical horror flick , in the same style of the Hammer movies . From an horror movie with both Christopher Lee and Vincent Price in it you would expect lots of goods . Their characters however get an awful few good things to do in the story and perhaps the movie was even better of with a cast consisting entirely out of unknown British actors . Sure , the fact that both Price and Lee star in this movie make this an appealing one to watch for the fans but they simply feel out of place in the movie and their talents and abilities are not used to the max . Perhaps this is mainly due to Gordon Hessler's mediocre directing , who obviously wasn't the most talented horror director of his time . The real main part of the movie is played by Alister Williamson as the disfigured Sir Edward Markham . The cinematography shows a few moments of brilliance and is quite refreshing at times , especially considering that this is a movie from the ' 60's . The costumes and sets are decent and help to create a good atmosphere and the amount of blood and graphic images is surprisingly high . The story is dragging at too many points and the story is told a bit too often unnecessarily difficult , which doesn't make " The Oblong Box " the easiest or most enjoyable ' old ' horror movie to watch . It's certainly a watchable movie and true fans of the genre will most likely find some joy in this movie but its too average all to really make a lasting or great impression . Also the fans of Lee and Price will be slightly disappointed by this movie , as the both of them get very little interesting to do in this movie .
Enjoyable but not really rememberable .	The movie is a good watch but it doesn't really impress . The movie feels like it had been made in an hurry . The movie is pretty short and even though the story covers everything that needs to be told it still feels hasty all . The animations are decent but turn pail compared to other Dreamworks animated movie " The Prince of Egypt " . The only scene's that are above average are the early dream scene's that seemed to be heavily inspired on the style of van Gogh paintings . Some of the other later dream sequences rely too much on some weak computer animations . The songs are simply horrible , there is no tone in them and are merely some spoking sentences that are sung with some music played under it . The song " Better than I " however is an exception and is actually very good . Pleasant to watch but also very easy to forget .
Well , at least it's still entertaining .	The movie is just beyond silly but still strangely entertaining . " Vertical Limit " has several problems , the cast and story are just a few of them . The movie has some of the worst casting since years , everybody seems to be totally miscast with the exception of Bill Paxton , Robert Taylor , Temuera Morrison and a few other minor roles . Chris O'Donnell is an horrible choice as leading man and all that Izabella Scorupco does is scream and look pretty . But maybe the biggest problem is the beyond silly story . The main story line is not that bad but the movie is full with dumb and completely unnecessary sub plots . And of course the movie is completely technical inaccurate but that doesn't really matter , at least that is what makes the movie entertaining to watch . Visually the movie also isn't perfect . Sure it has some nice scenery but the special effects are pretty disappointing , especially in the beginning . Still the movie is not a complete wreck , it still has some nice and even exciting moments and the musical score by James Newton Howard is also surprising good and so is the excellent camera work from David Tattersall . The characters Cyril and Malcolm also saves this movie from being a disaster . Still somewhat entertaining mainly thanks to Martin Campbell's directing .
Quite honestly the best of the " Species " - seuqels .	This fourth entry is surprisingly the best out of the series when it comes down to the sequels . Yet the movie is probably best to watch when you don't know any of the previous Species movies , fore in that way the mystery and originality of the movie will work out the best . It's also really not essential to watch any of the previous Species movies before watching this one , fore this movie and its story have basically very little to do with any of the previous entries , that were about aliens trying to breed and being hunt down by the military . This movie takes a totally different direction and approach . As a sequel and especially as a third sequel to the 1995 movie , this movie is surprisingly refreshing in its ideas and executions . No , of course it's no brilliant movie but I'm still raving about it since it's so surprisingly much better than any of its sequels and original as well . Of course not a lot of people are willing to give this movie a chance but I'll urge more people to see this , since it's simply a fine genre movie that is worth watching . It isn't the best or most exciting movie but it's a professionally made one , which makes this a maintaining movie to watch . It doesn't suffer from some of the problems of the other sequels , that had some bad actors in it , among other things . This movie has some good characters and even better actors portraying them . Ben Cross is a good actor and a nice leading man for this movie . Hard to believe he already was 60 years old at the time of this movie ! Still I would wish the movie was a bit more exciting . It's a bit lacking in action and definitely lacking in gore . All of the other Species movies were filled with gore and nudity , while this movie features basically little to none of any . It's a quite tame movie , with the expectations of some sequences , that are used to set up a specific mood and tone . The movie is a bit of a bore in parts and often drags on for too long with its story , which is the fault of its writing that offers the movie too little . Some things don't make a lot of sense within this movie and story and some things just don't really add up . However because it's such a fine put together , with a good visual look over it and some nice actors involved , this movie works out as a perfectly watchable one .
I expected more .	I expected more from this movie , after all its widely known and formed the inspiration for later movies such as " A Bug's Life " , " Mystery Men " and " Galaxy Quest " . Not the least movies in the genre . The premise of the movie also is good but this movie is a typical case of ; the premise is funnier and more original than the actual movie itself . The jokes are weak and the movie only relies on its premise , which basically forms the only comical situation of the movie . Even the great three main characters are pushed to the background . There aren't really many jokes present , which makes this movie also far from being one of the best or interesting comedies . The three main characters are good and they are a good spoof on ' 20's serial-movies . There are being played by ' 80's comedy icons Steve Martin , Martin Short and Chevy Chase . Especially Steve Martin is at his best as the leader of the bunch . But all of them however get a surprising disappointing amount of fun or interesting to do . The movie really is lacking in jokes and overall the movie itself could had been so much more of a fun one . Also the villains , who seemed to be interesting enough , are heavily underused in the movie . More was to be expected from ' 80's comedy talents such as John Landis , Steve Martin , Martin Short and Chevy Chase involved . Hightlights of the movie to me were the musical numbers , which were definitely the most fun sequences of the movie . The songs are from composer Randy Newman . The fine musical score itself is from composer Elmer Bernstein , who ironically also scored " The Magnificent Seven " , on which this movie is obviously based . Sure the movie is still a fun one to watch , mainly thanks to the premise that is obviously based on the Akira Kurosawa movie " Shichinin no samurai " and it's western remake " The Magnificent Seven " . Still the movie is a bit of a disappointment , considering the fact how well known it is over the world and how many later movies it inspired . Only really recommendable to the fans of ' 80's comedies .
Fun little movie	Just don't set you expectations for this movie too high or else you'll end up disappointed . " Thir13en Ghosts " is not a new " Aliens " , " Nightmare on Elm Street " or " Halloween " , but nevertheless the movie is entertaining and good in it's very own way . The movie tries very hard to created an " Aliens " like atmosphere but it never even comes close to it . It never becomes really scary and it lacks tension . The acting is OK and the characters are fine with the exception of a few needless characters that just don't add enough to the story . Some of the plot twists are pointless and the movie lacks a good final . The make-up however is fantastic , especially for the 13 ghosts . The special effects are nice too and only used when really needed which is a positive thing . The movie has a good quick pace and some nice camera-work . The concept is good : A man and his family are trapped in a glass house with ghosts in it . However the execution of it could and should have been better . But nevertheless it's a entertaining movie and well worth the 90 minutes of your time . Like I said before : Just don't set you expectations too high .
More a typical love-story than a biopic really .	I don't quite understand how people can see this movie as a serious biopic . It has all the typical ingredients and feeling of a romantic / musical MGM movie from the ' 40's . Not much in it that makes this movie distinct itself . Yes , it's really one of those movies of when you've seen one of them . you've seen them all ! Don't get me wrong , " Song of Love " is not bad , at least not worse than other same type of genre movies but it's also not any better . The movie is far too formulaic for that . You can say that the only real redeeming quality of the movie is its music . It features the music from composers Schumann , Liszt and Brahms ( characters also appearing in the movie ) . It's really beautiful music to hear and it gets featured prominently in the movie . Nothing wrong with the acting in this one . Katharine Hepburn was real great . I also liked Paul Henreid , who has also appeared in another couple of good well known movies . Not every character gets ever really deepened out unfortunately . It makes the movie with its drama mostly shallow and therefor the movie also doesn't leave a very big impression . If you like these type of ' 40's MGM movies this is of course a perfectly good watch or you . It features all of the ingredients and way of storytelling and it also most definitely has the same typical atmosphere all over it .
Laurel & Hardy in one of their first teaming ups . I wish I could say it also was one of their best . .	The movie is amusing enough but it's far from being the best Laurel & Hardy silent comedy shorts . The movie is at certain points dragging to much for that , especially toward its stretched out ending . It's a movie that certainly does have its great comical moments but not quite enough to really stand out as a comedy . The movie has a fun premise and some good comical moments and situations . However these moments and situations are rather stretched out in this movie , which causes them to be too long with as a result that it loses some of its comical power . This especially is the case in the ending of the movie , which takes too long . It makes the movie as a whole also feel too long , even though it of course is shorter than 20 minutes . But yes , the good moments in this movie certainly make sure that you'll still be entertained by this movie as a whole . The boys are in good form in this movie , which was one of their first teaming ups as a comedy duo . Especially Stan Laurel is in his element , while Oliver Hardy was still clearly searching and developing his character . It was a bit weird to see the boys without hair but unlike Samson , they don't lose any of their power . It's always fun to see James Finlayson in a Laurel & Hardy movie , even when it's a silent one . I thought I also noticed Walter Long as one of the convicts but I'm not too sure of this , also since he isn't credited . Slightly disappointing when compared to Laurel & Hardy's other work but entertaining enough to watch nevertheless .
Far from political correct or subtle but because of that also very entertaining .	This movie is really a breath of fresh . After watching almost nothing else but heavy Dutch period drama's , drama's in particular and war productions , there finally now is a simple , spectacular and entertaining Dutch movie , in the form of " Vet Hard " . The humor in this movie is cruel and violent . Though it's far from subtle all , it still makes you laugh . To be honest , I think you have to be Dutch to fully understand and appreciate the humor of the movie . The movie however does goes a bit too far at times , even for my taste . I mean having one of the main characters being a necrophiliac serial killer just is not my idea of good taste and quality of humor . The story is simple and almost non-existent . It's just a pile up of gangster movie clichés and over-the-top comical situations . You clearly shouldn't take this movie serious and watch it for what it is . This movie is a real no-brainer that certainly does entertain and give you a good 88 minutes . As simple as the movie may be , the quality of it is certainly good . The movie is directed with lots of feeling for pace and handles the characters nicely as well . The action sequences are definitely the best elements of the movie . They are superbly choreographed and even brought better to the screen , also with the help of some excellent editing . It makes it obvious that Tom Oliehoek is a great new young action-movie director , who perhaps already is too big for the Netherlands . Of course the quality and size of it all doesn't hold a candle to an average overdone Hollywood blockbuster production . But this has nothing to do with the directing qualities and talent of Tim Oliehoek but more with the low budget , though for Dutch standards this still was a very expensive movie . At least the movie is no ' Hollywood wannabe ' . It has quality and style of its own and it gives the movie its very own unique identity . The acting to be honest surpassed expectations . You normally wouldn't expect quality acting in an action / comedy like this but his movie has some good actors in it , who all did a good job . Jack Wouterse normally doesn't play main characters and in some movies his role is even no more than just a bit part . I already liked him very much as an actor before this movie but I like him even more now . He shows that he can handle bigger roles and that he is capable of carrying an entire movie for most part on his own . Other fine Dutch and Belgian actors also portray some fine other roles . So , Tim Oliehoek is not just a great action director but also one fine actors director . Only thing is that the movie has a bit too many characters with as a result that not every characters works out as fine or comical as the other . The movie is also filled with lots of cameos of famous Dutch celebrities . I was afraid this was going to get an overkill of it but the did a good job at keeping it to a minimum and till a point were it doesn't get ridicules or distracting from the story . The fact that I rate this movie only a 6 has nothing to do with its entertainment value . It's just as entertaining as some other movies which I rated a 8 in the past , it's just of lesser quality all . But seeing the circumstances ( only 40 days of shooting , for many complicated action sequences included , a ? 3 , 700 , 000 budget . ) you have to give credit to this movie and its entire cast & crew .
Uhmm , no .	Although I just adore Laurel & Hardy , I can't say that I was very amused by this early attempt of the two . It's definitely true that this movie can't really be labeled as a Laurel & Hardy movie , since they don't appear in this movie as a comical duo . They play two separate roles , although they also interact with each other during some of movie its moments . It's one of the earliest movie starring the two boys . Their later trademark style of slapstick humor and chemistry is not yet fully notable in this movie . Instead the movie features some highly predictable and far from original comedy moments . The movie isn't even ashamed to recycle some of its own jokes time after time . Of course it's true that the movie also does have its moments . It's still fun enough to consider this a watchable movie but I have the feeling that Laurel & Hardy fans will probably be disappointed with this movie . It's not a movie that made me laugh a lot , though I think I smiled a lot . Especially the moments with the ' baby ' were amusing . Kind of spooky to find out that the ' baby ' was actually being played by an actual adult . Freaky ! The movie is a bit longer than other Laurel & Hardy silent comedy shorts . The movie is 26 minutes long ( so the 20 minutes runtime shown on this site is false ! ) . It definitely shows on screen that this movie is longer than average . Some moments are overlong and tiresome . Seemed that 20 minutes was really the ideal length for a comedy short , at that time period . Perhaps if the movie had been shorter , I would also had been more positive about it . Obviously the boys and Hal Roach were still searching for the right comedy style , timing and pacing . This movie just does not yet fully show the Laurel & Hardy we all love .
Even the battle sequences are a disappointment .	" Kingdom of Heaven " is a good looking but heavily flawed movie . I never expected too much from this movie but I was disappointed in the fact that it even failed in creating memorable and impressive battle sequences . From a movie like this and certainly from a director like Ridley Scott you may and should expect some good looking massive battle sequences . Yes , there were massive battle sequences in the movie but it was all way too short to make a lasting impression . Main problem with the movie is the storytelling . The movie never really seems to find a right pace . Just when you think you're finally going to see some action the action is cut of already . Such as when Balian and friends rides off to stall some time . Just when the action has begun the movie cuts to the ending of the battle . Or when Guy de Lusignan and Reynald battle the Saracens in the desert . That battle isn't even shown ! Not one second of it . . . Also during the siege of Jerusalam the movie cuts off multiple times just when the action takes pace and becomes interesting . It was an huge let down . But of course there is more to a movie than just action , so how about the other elements of the movie ? Well , the story itself is also too uninteresting . There isn't really a clear plot-line for most of the time and it is unclear were the movie is heading to , especially in the first halve of the movie . Not everything in the movie feels connected with each other , or really flows well . Many characters are introduced in the movie but almost none of them is ever really used . As a result we get to see a movie about some two-dimensional characters that we never really get to know or care about . Because of this the battle sequences also never got tense , why should we care if anyone of them dies ? Also none of the characters seemed to be afraid to die and everyone seemed to be thrilled and glad that there was a war going on . The movie also tries hard to be political correct towards all parties involved . Many people find this disturbing and annoying but in this case I never really had any problems with it during the movie . I also had no problems with the historical inaccuracies . I look at this movie as entertainment not as a documentary . Visually there is nothing wrong with the movie . The camera-work by John Mathieson is good and there are some impressive looking landscape's , sets and costumes . The battle sequences and mass scene's are good looking and the movie has some impressive special effects but it's too short all to make those moments memorable . The movie also shows that Ridley Scott is of course still a great director and almost every scene is a real beauty to look at . It really is the story and pace that kills this movie . It's not Scott's fault , he was given simply too much story material to work with , to make it all fit in a two and an halve hour movie . Because of this there are many moments in the movie that feel ' incomplete ' . Also the casting is quite weak . Strangely I'm not revering to Orlando Bloom . Lot's of people felt that he wasn't ready yet - or believable as the main ' hero ' . I had no problems with him and I actually thought that he was pretty good as the main character . I had far more problems with the other typecasting of the movie . It was distracting to see Brendan Gleeson from " Braveheart " , Marton Csokas from the Lord of the Rings trilogy and David Thewlis from " Dragonheart " in the movie . They are all actors who already played memorable parts in movies from the same genre . Liam Neeson was good as always but underused in this movie . The movie could had really used him as an actor and character at times . Simply fantastic was Jeremy Irons but also he had unfortunately a quite small role . It was almost like as if the best actors were given the smallest and least interesting roles of the movie . This also implies for Edward Norton who played King Baldwin . Of course by no means an ' horrible ' movie but it simply is too forgettable all , mainly due to the storytelling , to really recommend it to everyone .
Formalaic standard thriller . Good but not surprising enough .	This thriller certainly is a good enough one to watch and it also is a very professionally made one but it however offers very little new or refreshing enough material . It makes " Don't Say a Word " nothing more than a standard thriller , with some good actors in it . The cast is really the saving grace of the movie . It still provides the movie with some good moments and characters and also give the movie an extra sense of professionalism involved . Sean Bean is a great as the main villain and delivers an absolute fine performance . Michael Douglas is also great as the leading man , mainly because he doesn't play him as an ' hero ' but an ordinary everyday person instead . Douglas is always fine in these sort of roles . Some other excellent actors play some smaller parts in the movie . Actors such as ; Brittany Murphy , Oliver Platt , Victor Argo and last but not least Famke Janssen . They all help to make the movie look better and more interesting than it in fact really is . Most of the characters are however pretty flat . Why does Famke Janssen even play the wife ? It's a role basically every actress could had played . This movie just didn't seem like a very challenging or original project to get involved with . And I also have the feeling that the movie would had been better of without the Jennifer Esposito . Just think about it , was she really necessary for the movie and its story ? Her character is not engaging enough , since it's not she we need to care about or cheer for but the Michael Douglas character instead , who is the main lead of the movie . Her character is distracting from the movie its main story . The movie is certainly style-full and it does have its moments . But in the end it just really falls flat as a really good or original thriller . All of the moments in the movie are just too predictable and the movie doesn't offer any real surprises . Therefor this movie just isn't anymore than a well made but standard formulaic thriller . It's a movie that does serve its purpose and the movie certainly is watchable as a simple standard thriller . Fans of the genre will probably still be the most entertained by it but even they have to conclude that this movie is far from being one of the best thrillers released in recent years . It's the sort of movie that is only quite good enough to watch it just maybe once . Don't expect too much of this and you might end up liking it good enough . Nothing too remarkable , just a well made , simple thriller , with some great actors in it .
A good looking - and good enough movie .	The movie is wonderfully made and has a perfectly , moody dark atmosphere . The visual effects are convincing enough and there are some nicely shot action sequences . Still the movie is not as good as it could had been , especially when considering what its concept is . Problem with the movie is that it isn't really an entertaining one to watch . The movie could had really used some humor at times and the story and the movie in general , takes itself way too serious . It makes the movie a bit heavy and hard one to watch at times and because of this all the movie doesn't really have an high entertainment value . Another thing is that the story becomes unnecessary hard to follow at times , because of the very same reason . The movie is not halve as entertaining as it could had been . The concept of the movie ; Werewolves versus vampires sounds good but the execution of it is done too seriously . It's done with style certainly but not with a sense for entertainment . The result is a good looking - but mostly empty movie that isn't really always constantly pleasant to watch . The movie also lacks some real likable characters . Seline is a cool chick but I don't have the feeling that we ever fully get to know and understand her . Also there is absolutely no chemistry between Kate Beckinsale and Scott Speedman , which makes parts of the movie weak at times . The acting is fair enough . The actors fit their roles well and that is what really counts . Bill Nighy is always great to watch in a movie and this one is no exception . He plays the best part of the movie , a sort of über-vampire . It certainly is a watchable movie , especially to those who also liked the first two Blade movies . I'll probably also watch its sequel " Underworld : Evolution " but probably not earlier until when it arrives on DVD .
What's with the hate ? This movie is good for what it is .	Like most others who have seen this movie , I also grew up with watching the first " The Hitcher " movie . Even though it was far from a masterpiece , it has still grown a bit into a classic over the years , mainly due to Rutger Hauer's impressive and scary performance . This movie doesn't have Rutger Hauer in it , so I wasn't expecting a better movie and expected the worst . But why compare this movie to the original in the first place ? You should take the movie just for what it is , a straight-to-video thriller . And for what it is , a straight-to-video thriller , it's a pretty good movie . It's professionally made , with good camera-work and editing and some fairly good performances by the cast . The movie might not be that scary but it does have a few surprises in it . It does have some returning element from " The Hitcher " in this movie but it does it in an original way . Fans of the first movie should be pleased by some of the subtle and not so subtle homage to the first movie and not be offended or angry about it . It also does have more than enough original moments in it and the movie is mostly unpredictable , in terms of who dies and who will survive in the end . Even though the budget of the movie was probably low , it doesn't really show on screen . There are some spectacular moments , with gunfire and explosions and also the visual look of the movie is good . The cinematography is nice and the movie is told with a pleasantly fast pace and with some nimble editing . The performance are fairly good . It's sort of fun to see C . Thomas Howell reprising his role but was it really necessary ? Real main part of the movie is being played by Kari Wuhrer , who has appeared in quite a few B-movies over the years . She is good enough as the new main character of the movie . This time the hitcher is being played by Jake Busey . Leave it up to the Busey's to play a convincing and scary looking psychopathic villain . Of course he is no Hauer but he pulls it of pretty well and is more than good enough in his role . Of course the story does have its flaws and improbabilities but when you watch a movie like this , you know you shouldn't expect to much from its story . Especially when you've seen more straight-to-video and TV thrillers , you have to admit that this movie is a good one or at least an above average one , that has a professional look .
Slightly weaker stories but still good fun all .	When you compare this movie to its predecessor , which got released 11 years before this one , you'll have to conclude that this movie is not a better than its predecessor because of the reason that it's stories all are slightly weaker ones . Again , just like its predecessor , this movie tells 3 different , unrelated stories that somehow all involve the supernatural . What they have in common is that in all 3 stories the main characters is being played by the same actress . In " Trilogy of Terror " this was Karen Black , in " Trilogy of Terror II " its Lysette Anthony . She of course is not as great as Karen Black , though its fun to see her playing 3 totally different characters in each story . This is more an horror movie than its predecessor was . All of the stories this time feature horror elements . Again , the last story of the movie features the Zuni doll , which also was the highlight of the first movie . Perhaps this is also the reason why it's named " Trilogy of Terror II " ? Fore otherwise this movie of course has little to nothing to do with the first movie that got made 11 years ( ! ) before this one . None of the stories are extremely well written or anything and they all got based on different short stories . The movie is longer than " Trilogy of Terror " and every story this time is about 30 minutes long instead of 20-something minutes . That doesn't really mean though that the stories are well layered or anything like that . At times they are even a bit dragging , which causes them to be a bit uneven in parts . The build up to the eventual horror often takes too long , which makes the movie itself needlessly long as well . Of course these type of movies are never dull for the lovers of the genre . Dan Curtis is obviously a director with a love for the genre and that passion really shows on the screen at certain points .
Well , at least it has an interesting original concept .	A war movie done John Woo-style sounded like such a good idea on paper . The slow-motion action sequences and other typical Woo-ism elements are often even more laughable than beautiful or realistic . Same goes for the deeper and sentimental meanings of the movie . It's obvious John Woo wanted to make a " Saving Private Ryan " realistic like war movie but the movie gets stuck somewhere between Hollywood action / war entertainment and a serious war movie . The battle sequences look too fabricated and planned out , which is of course a killer for the movie its realism . Sure the battle sequences all look fine and it obvious cost some serious money to make this movie . Between all of the battles and action within the movie , there are lots of slow moments . Guess it tries to be deep or something , also about the Navajo-culture , in those moments but it instead feels pointless and often like a drag . Same goes for most of the sentiments within the movie . It's also the reason why the movie is quite long . The movie is an underwritten one that for a genre movie is too formulaic . It's mostly a predictable movie that offers very few surprises or original moments . A shame , since the concept of the movie is definitely an original one . The movie also doesn't bother to tell where and why they are fighting . What are all these battles ? Why are they being fought ? And yes , of course the movie also finds room to put in a love-story . All of the character also remain pretty shallow one's , no matter how far they dig into their past . Nicolas Cage just wasn't made for these sort of movies . The movie is filled with some other well known names in it and most of them do a good job . It's not like the acting is one of the weakest elements of the movie but that still doesn't mean that everyone was correctly cast . It's definitely a watchable movie but its shortcomings just prevent this movie from being a great or really memorable one .
The first 21th century Columbo movie is not among the best .	The Columbo series , starring Peter Falk in his famous role as Lt . Columbo , first started off in 1968 with the movie " Prescription : Murder " . Five decades later the first 21th century Columbo movie got released . It's a known fact that all later Columbo movies are not as good - and lack the charm and simplicity of the earlier Columbo movies , from mostly the ' 70's . Unfortunately this movie also suffers from this . Like basically every ' weaker ' Columbo movie entry , the introduction takes far too long . The movie is only about 98 minutes short but it isn't until about halve an hour into the movie . It of course is only also after that , that Lt . Columbo first shows up . It's extra disappointing that this movie isn't among the best Columbo entries since it got directed by Patrick McGoohan . He directed more Columbo movies , prior to this one and his movies always had a certain bit of extra style , which made the movies rise above the level of average . He also had some misses in his ' Columbo-directing career ' though and this movie is among one of those misses . Problem is that the story is really not that interesting . It really isn't a very exciting murder-mystery movie to watch . It's way too slowly progressing and besides , the reason why the murder gets committed seemed quite dodgy to me . Come on , why does he kill the boy ? Was he really such a big treat to him or his career ? He still had his reputation in his advantage after all . Why risk so much ? It above all is also a quite poorly executed murder . It's done needlessly complicated and left for too many traces at the same time . That alone is also already a real accomplishment . Yet Lt . Columbo at first doesn't pay attention to the most obvious clues as well ( the pieces of glass in the hand , the tox screen , etcetera ) . Seriously , that's not really Columbo style , now is it . The movie is about a movie composer , so throughout the movie we see him conducting . It's however quite annoying to see that he's never conducting to the music we hear . I'm not even a musical person but you don't have to be a musical genius to see that his conducting and the music we hear don't mix with each other . This to me was quite annoying . It also was quite annoying to hear the actual music , that obviously come straight of the tape and wasn't being played by the orchestra we see on screen all the time . Sounds nitpicking but those things simply bothered me and also prevented me from taking the entire movie and story serious as a good and professionally made one . Peter Falk is still in good form as Lt . Columbo in this movie , despite his age . He already was well in his 70's at the time of this production . A real good and clever police man would be enjoying his pension by then . Billy Connolly is also acting nicely but I think he deserved a better script to work with . He does his very best with his character but due to the story you just never get close enough to the character . Richard Riehle also appears in the movie again , who previously starred also in the other previous Patrick McGoohan directed Columbo movie " Columbo : Ashes to Ashes " , in the same role . Not a great 21th century Columbo-entry .
Life is boring , why make a movie about it ?	I'm fond of Scandinavian movies but I have just never been a too great fan of Icelandic movie . Yes , I know Iceland is not really Scandinavia , even though it officially is on paper . Let's say it's more of a semi-Scandinavian country . Just like in every other Scandinavian movie , this movie tries to take a realistic approach , with slow moving scenes and lots of different characters and build up involved . Only difference is that there is some more quirkiness added to it all . Most of the characters and some of the events seem definitely weird ones . In that regard Icelandic movies are somewhat similar to Danish films , that often also features quirkiness . Perhaps no coincidence , since Icelandic used to be a part of Denmark for a long time , until 1944 . Now , nothing wrong with some quirkiness but if it plays a too big part in the movie it goes at the expense of the credibility and the realism of the whole movie . In my opinion this is the case with " Nói albínói " . It's obvious that the main character is living a very boring life , due to the place he is living at . But why bother us with it ? We see how all of his days are always basically the same and that there is absolutely nothing for him to do . It's a good portrayal but it just isn't the most engaging or interesting one to watch as a viewer . Like I said , it's a good portrayal and definitely a well made movie , with all of the right intentions but that doesn't always make a great movie as well , when the movie doesn't have the most engaging story . And then the ending . Sigh , well I don't know , I definitely can understand the film-makers motivations and intentions of it but it nevertheless comes rather sudden and isn't in context with the rest of the movie . It gives an already ' depressing ' movie an even more depressing ending . I'm probably sounding too harsh , since I definitely enjoyed watching " Nói albínói " but in some cases an enjoyable good watch isn't the same as a great movie . The atmosphere is definitely good . Due to the nature conditions the movie also has a very special kind of lighting that adds to the movie its special atmosphere . It's a very cold feeling and bleak looking movie , that often uses empty long shots of the empty snowy streets and white covered small houses , with little of valuables in it . There is nothing wrong with making a little depressive humble movie , with some much required comical undertones , that doesn't really have a story , in general movie terms , but is more a sort of an observation of life . But to devote an entire movie to the boring life of a gifted ( which is mentioned but never really shown throughout the movie , except him being able to solve any kind of puzzles quickly . We only really get to see him as a lazy person who doesn't bother with anything . ) . Icelandic teenager is perhaps a bit too much of one thing . The sort of movie that is still good and fun enough to watch it once , when there really is nothing else on .
Such a silly movie that I can't help enjoying .	" Thinner " is just one of those movies that I always enjoy watching when its on . It's basically a great way to spend 90 minutes . I think the foremost reason why this is such a watchable movie is thanks to its wonderful concept . Its highly original and you just can't go really wrong with it . The story nevertheless is quite silly in parts , which is I think also mainly because there are some difficulties with the book translation to the screen . What works in a book just doesn't always work for a movie . Another problem with movies based on books is that a book has a beginning and an end , with in between a couple of hundred pages to lay out the story and characters and everything that happens in between . You then next have to try to put this all in an under 2 hour movie , without loosing the core and essence of the story . This most of the time has as a result that some things get rushed in the movie to get from point A to B . The actual ending is just great but there are also still some problems with it . Problem with the ending is that it's totally unclear why the main character is suddenly freaking out so bad and why he suddenly turns into psychotic murderer . Apparently a real returning theme in Stephen King novels ; the main character going psycho toward the ending . He blames his wife for everything that has happened but this is totally unbelievable and unlikely this would ever happen . She at least most certainly did not deserved to die because of it . They try to ' justify ' his killing of her even more by implying that she cheats on her husband with doctor Mikey . But again ; now way that that justifies the thing happening to her in the end . No way the story would had still worked out as good if the make-up effects weren't as good . Robert John Burke goes from extremely fat at the start to extremely thin toward the ending , all with the help of make-up . The movie looks like a made for TV movie , which is obviously due to its restrained budget . So don't expect anything big or surprising camera movements and innovating directing or editing . The movie also doesn't have a too great cast but each actor serves its purpose and fits its role . Actually quite silly and nothing too great but it's a perfectly watchable and enjoyable little movie .
Weird adult horror fairy tale .	In this strange mix of folklore , fairy tales , horror , symbolism and sexual werewolves , that isn't understandable for the casual viewer . The story nor the style is significant present enough with as a result an unique but not so successful movie . The directing by Neil Jordan doesn't seem daring enough . The style isn't enough present and the story doesn't quite flow like it should . I'm sure that the story works better in the book and I feel that this movie might should be remade by for instance Tim Burton or Sam Raimi , I'm confident that they could do more with the style and story . The cast is quite good with a convincing Angela Lansburry and a good young Sarah Patterson in her debut . Some of the scene's are pretty gross , thanks to the good special effects by Toby Philpott but it doesn't always look convincing . Interesting movie that could and should have been made better .
Good movie but not THAT good .	I was surprised by the overwhelming amounts of positive comments and reactions , not only on this site but by the public in general . Yes I admit that " Witness " is the best movie about Amish people ever made ( I am not counting " Kingpin ) . But does that automatically mean that it's one of the best movies of all time ? I don't think so . In my opinion the movie suffers from some serious pacing problems . I don't always like the point of view the story is told from and the order it's told in . But the movie also has good some good things in it . Actually lot's of them ! For one I really have to say that this is possibly Harrison Ford's best role till date and Lukas Haas was a great child actor at the time . Way better then most of the kids these days . Also the little soundtrack from Maurice Jarre is very good . I also like the portrayal of the Amish people , actually watching this movie is a great lesson about the Amish . One more thing I liked were the characters . The story however is not always interesting and seems to take forever even though the movie has a good finale without falling into any cliche moments . Better as an Amish documentary then as a movie .
Flat comedy .	A flat comedy with flat characters and a flat story line but still very funny . In other words ; an uneven movie . The most disappointing thing about the movie is the flatness of it . The characters and story are just way too uninteresting and shallow . Also , the movie is way to short . The villain played by John Malkovich is highly underused and is given way too little screen time , which is a real shame because he could have made the movie at least a bit more interesting to watch . Still for a strange reason the movie is funny and entertaining , some of the scene's such as in the hospital are just hilarious . The action is also very good , not comedy good but action movie like good . Really spectacular . Rowan Atkinson was fantastic . He really made me forget he was the guy that played Mr . Bean and Blackadder . He showed in this movie that he actually is a pretty good actor . Ed Shearmur delivers a great David Arnold like James Bond score which adds well to the movies feeling and atmosphere . I still hope for a sequel , I feel that Johnny English deserves a second change . Uneven movie with some nice moments that makes the movie worth watching but not a must see .
Watchable but certainly also not as great as it all could had been .	The movie has the right intentions and the right talent is also definitely involved but yet it all does not work out as completely successful as it could had done . Perhaps you can wonder if this movie wasn't a little over-ambitious . It tries to put way too much into the movie and its filled with many different supernatural things and elements . It's a bit incoherent and you can often wonder what the one thing has to do with the other . This is also because a lot of things within this movie remain unexplained . It works out good for the mystery and overall atmosphere of the movie but when none of it reach a satisfying enough conclusion it starts to work against the movie . The movie is in constant motion but it doesn't feel like it's progressing . At the start of the movie we know and understand just as much what happened as we do at the end of the movie . Still its story and concept in particular is good enough to keep your intention till the end and director Mark Pellington is obviously a capable director , who knows to handle the genre but just didn't really knew to keep control of the movie its story . The story should had made some more choices but instead it decides to have a little bit of everything in the movie , with as a result that just nothing works out as well as it all could had done . It's not really the type of movie you would normally expect to see Richard Gere in but he fits the part really well . It was good to not see him for a change in a middle-age chick flick , or overly moralistic themed and dramatic movie . It's not necessarily a ' typical ' Richard Gere movie . He's real good and convincing as the movie its likable main ' hero ' , you can also care about . The movie also features some fine other actors but they get more pushed to the background of the movie because of the reason that the movie its story is so overfull with all kinds of things . All in all , yes it's a watchable enough movie for when you're bored or for on a rainy night but the movie is just not as great as it potentially really could had been . Genre fans will probably still enjoy it best .
It takes longer to read this review than it takes to watch " Kung Fu Kenobi " .	" Kung Fu Kenobi " is an interesting test movie , it can be seen as the test movie for Evan Mather's later ' Star Wars action figures ' movies . In 1999 Evan Mather made another Kung Fu Kenobi adventure called " Kung Fu Kenobi's Big Adventure " , it's pretty much in the same style as this movie and both have a fun and fitting soundtrack . It's a kind of weird movie but fun at the same time . I especially like the slow-motion scene . A fun and greatly made animation movie . It takes longer to read this review than it takes to watch " Kung Fu Kenobi " so go and watch it now !
A compilation of the TV series , rather than an actual movie .	I have only seen a couple of episodes of " The Dudesons " in my lifetime but it seems as if I had seen the best of them , since 90 % of what I had seen is also in this movie . This ' movie ' is merely a compilation of the televisions series episodes . This obviously was a bit of a disappointment and it also doesn't really make this a ' movie ' at all . But OK , it's a compilation of their best moment and its uncensored so obviously there is plenty to enjoy . Apparently the dudesons already shot some of their stuff before " Jackass " aired , so simply calling this just another " Jacksass " rip-off wouldn't be fair , even though the first " Jackass " episode aired in 2000 and the first " Extreme duudsonit " ( " The Dudesons " ) episode aired in 2001 . It's also original in its own way , since it has created a style of its own and the Finnish environment is of course also different and something that makes the series and movie also special . What also makes it special is that the guys are living together on their ranch , just outside their home town . They perform a lot of their crazy stuff in and around their ranch . This makes it all the movie fun and gives the whole series and movie a more good and fun brotherhood like feeling as well . One thing I don't like about the dudesons is their laughing . No matter what they do , they always think its very funny . It's as if they in advance decided in their own minds they are going to laugh , no matter what happens , with as a result that they are always laughing like maniacs , even if it isn't that funny what they are doing . Another thing I don't really like is how irresponsible they are . They don't think , they just do things without taking any precautions . You can call it spontaneous and call it one of the strong points of the dudesons but sometimes its just to stupid what they are doing . For instance , they are putting things and each other on fire without making sure there is water around , just in case , which is also the reason why their ranch basically burned down . But also the stunts themselves seem to have been hardly thought out . Sometimes it just plain dangerous what they are doing , which is also the reason why all of them have broken a lot of bones already and some of them have permanent damage on their young age already . I seriously wouldn't at all be surprised to hear one day one of the dudesons died or becomes an permanent invalid , during one of their stunts and antics . Some of their bone braking stuff can be seen back in this movie , as well as the almost complete burning down of their ranch . Best parts however of course still remains the stuff with Mr . Hitler . One of the best things about the dudesons is how fast going it always is . Normally the episode are also around 20 minutes short , rather than half an hour , which is a more standard time . It's always well edited and cool looking . But still thing is , I still have difficulties with knowing who is who exactly in the series and movies . Some of them look alike and change their appearances often and their odd Finnish names aren't that easy to remember as well . I'm still learning though . It's fun and enjoyable but if you're a follower of the series , there is basically no point in ever watching this movie , since it's a mere compilation of episodes , without any new stuff added to it , except the fact that it's uncensored , which means there is some nudity . ( Still , funny enough the male nudity is still being censored though . )
Yeah whatever !	This really is a movie with a story you just couldn't care less about . The movie had some good potential , with a couple of at that time well known actors appearing at a Hollywood party . Sounds like enough material to make a fun and good movie with . The movie however isn't that much fun as you would expect . It's totally uninteresting to follow , with a bunch of characters and different love stories you just don't care about . The movie gets still fun and is somewhat saved toward the ending of the movie when Mickey Mouse and Laurel & Hardy appear in the movie ( yeah a weird combination I known ) . The movie also features some horrible and typical signing and dancing routines that don't seem to end and at times go on for over 5 minutes . You know , songs that always sound the same and are about cheerful things , with lines that don't even sound musically . Thank goodness for the fast forward button . It's a real waste of some good potential and some good actors . Obviously Laurel & Hardy are underused , also because at the beginning of the movie they are falsely presented as two of the main characters . Jimmy Durante is a good and fun actor but it just isn't enough to spice things up in the movie . Guess that the highlight of the movie really is the animated chocolate soldiers sequence , presented by Mickey Mouse himself , who also gives a pretty good Jimmy Durante imitation . The move could had been so much more fun to watch but it still definitely has some moments in it that makes this movie a still perfectly watchable one .
More of the same but it's welcome !	This movie is a typical sequel , meaning that everything is bigger . More action , more special effects , more comedy , more new characters and more different plot lines . Is it all better ? Perhaps if the movie was more original and not so much an extension of the first movie , then perhaps it would had been . If you enjoyed the first " The Mummy " , you'll probably also enjoy watching this movie . It's in the same style and follows the same characters , with just a few more new adjustments to it . Not all are for the best though . Compared to the first movie , this movie obviously has an highly budget and it uses this for some more big scale battles , at the beginning and end of the movie . It also puts in some overall more action sequences and more traveling elements , which helps to provide the movie with its fun and adventurous feeling . They also tried to put some more layers into the story , involving the same characters from the first movie but none of this ever really works out , since these plot line differ way too much from the characters as we got introduced to in the first movie . There also are some new characters in the movie . The O'Connell's now have a son . Why oh why do movies always feel the need to put in kids into the story . As a matter of fact the character is quite entertaining in the movie but at the same time annoying because he just feels so completely redundant . Luckily John Hannah is still present for the comical notes of the movie and Arnold Vosloo as the charismatic mummy . This is the role he definitely will be remembered for , even though it isn't a very demanding role . Very much like the first movie launched the careers of Brendan Fraser , Rachel Weisz , John Hannah and Arnold Vosloo , this movie launched the acting career of The Rock . Yes he's painfully horrible in this movie , despite having no lines but he's such a great new action hero star . He definitely is the new Arnold Schwarzenegger , who obviously also wasn't the best actor around but still a big and popular one . It was also fun to see Alun Armstrong in the movie , though he's hard to recognize . Also Patricia Velasquez's role has been extended , which is a welcome thing . Like most sequels , it's tries ( too ) hard to surpass its first movie , in terms of size and spectacle . Yes , it provides the movie with some great moments but yet the movie feels more of the same . It's not a bad thing , since the movie is still perfectly fun and entertaining but its lack of originality and new ideas is disturbing at times and makes me worried for " The Mummy 3 " , if there is ever going to be such a movie . The ending is sort of an anti-climax , when a computer animated scorpion king appears , that looks nothing like The Rock and looks as if it came straight out of a playstation game . It's a bit of a disappointing ending but luckily the rest of the movie is good enough to compensate for this and still make this is perfectly fun and watchable movie .
Not pure enough for my taste .	This is a rather cheap movie and I don't mean cheap in terms of its budget ( well , perhaps also a bit ) but more in terms of its story and clichés . Seriously , this movie fairly much progresses just as you would expect it to and it just doesn't really have any surprises in it . Yet it picks in original approach , by telling the story from the viewpoint of an 10 year old boy , who's mother is an heroin addict . So you see the usual story from an unusual viewpoint . It adds some originality and effectiveness to the story but yet overall the movie remains mostly shallow , which is not due to the acting or overall written but more to the directing . The movie really isn't always flowing well and it also isn't helped much by its horrible musical score . The way the story is being told is weak at times and the movie too often chooses fast cuts and scenes often end too abruptly . The movie at points often leaves an unsatisfying impression because of this , though the movie its intentions are all good . Because of the storytelling I felt a certain distance to the story and character and wasn't overall grabbed by it . The movie because of this also doesn't work out as realistic as it potentially could had . Despite the actor's efforts most characters remain mainly stereotypical ones . No , I can't say Gillies MacKinnon is my favorite director , even though this movie is the only one I have seen by him . The movie is just not the most effective or powerful one within its genre . All of the actors are basically doing a good job but they don't really make the movie , or their characters more interesting than they are . Harry Eden is praised to heaven for his performance and it is a good role for an 12 year old but no people he really isn't that great . In some of the sequences ( especially the emotional ones ) his acting is simply lacking and I couldn't ever feel any of the pain or anger his character went trough , which again , might also be rather due to the movie its directing approach than anything else really . The movie also stars David Wenham and Keira Knightley before their days of fame . I like Keira Knightley and all but you can actually wonder what she is doing here in this movie . Her role on paper might seem like a relevant one but in the movie it works out as a redundant one , whose plot line is distracting from the one the movie is really all about . I don't mean to sound too harsh about this movie , since its definitely a watchable one . It's just that it's also currently being overrated and overpraised on here , for something that it just really isn't .
Quite formulaic and maybe even borderline boring but still watchable for the true movie-buffs .	Reason why this movie in a way is perhaps a bit of a must see is because this movie features Jean Harlow in her last role before her death . She collapsed on the set and died not much later in the hospital at the age of 26 . She must have been quite ill during the entire production of this movie . Is this perhaps also a reason why her character becomes ill in the movie ? Because there is no real obvious other reason I can think of as of why they put that in the movie , it had little use or value to the movie its story or her character . But I surely wish that her last movie would had been a different and more worthy one . This comedy offers little entertainment and perhaps even is a bit boring at times because of the formulaic story . As a comedy it simply ain't funny enough and as a drama it ain't powerful enough . So it's a bit of a ' pointless ' movie to watch . It's an extremely average romantic movie were oh so many movies like this one had been made of already . Still the atmosphere is quite good . The movie has a kind of an almost childish innocence that lot of movies made for WW II had . During and after WW II , movie's became more serious and perhaps also more meaningful . It's obvious that this movie was made just to bring shear joy and entertainment to the people in the cinema . The whole singing in the train sequence's is perhaps the best example of the movie its innocence . Clark Gable is quite good in his role but the line's he has to deliver are simply at times just plain annoying . Also the fact that Lionel Barrymore was in this movie didn't do much good for me . As an actor I can't really stand Lionel Barrymore , he so often irritates me . Most certainly not recommendable , unless you're interested in seeing Jean Harlow in her last role .
Very simplistic but it works because of that .	The movie is obviously inspired by " Night of the Living Dead " , in which lots of simple , gory and mysterious things are happening , at one location , without ever trying to explain anything . It's a very simply approach , that works out for this movie as well . You just sit back and enjoy watching it , without really having to think much about anything . The movie is definitely gory and good looking enough to please the genre fans . It's definitely a movie that doesn't take itself seriously and leaves room for lots of humor and over-the-top characters . It makes the movie fun and entertaining to watch . But yes the movie is pretty restrained because of its one location and in its originality . It also makes the movie drag on a bit after a while . Basically the movie doesn't offer too much new elements and most of it has already been done before and in a better and more original way . Nevertheless this doesn't mean that this movie has completely nothing to offer to thrill its audience . It definitely helps that the movie is a good looking one as well , despite its low budget . It also provides the movie with a good and suiting horror type of atmosphere , even though the movie doesn't really ever become scary . It's too deliberately gory and fun for that . The build up and character introductions take far too long . For the rest of the movie it keeps focusing on all characters evenly . This is a bit of a problem because there are really many characters in this movie and none of them really gets developed or interesting because they are never given the room to . It's now hard to keep all characters apart and really care for any of them . An enjoyable gore feast but perhaps for fans only .
Entertaining enough but lacking in action and tension .	This movie is entertaining and good enough but from an Errol Flynn movie you would normally expect some more fireworks . The story for most part is good but the movie is lacking in both some action and real tension , which makes this movie a bit of a bore to watch . The movie begins well and promising . The story seems solid but some unlikely and ridicules events in the story almost completely ruin the movie its story and credibility . Especially the ending is disappointing as well as ridicules , when the Nazi's are building a complete bomber from the parts that are in a couple of crates . It's ridicules and helps to make this movie a bit of a disappointing one . The movie also begins to drag pretty fast after the promising beginning . The second halve of the movie is especially a bore , when it starts to drag on for too long . Still it entertains enough to make this movie still a watchable one . Errol Flynn plays his character well and convincing and proofs that he can still play a great leading man , even when the movie itself is a lacking one . The movie would had been a so much better one if it had had some more action and tense moments in it . It instead now falls flat as well as an action movie as a WW II thriller . The story itself is original and interesting enough , had it not been filled with so many ridicules moments . It's also sort of ridicules to see how morally right and the Errol Flynn character is but that is sort of a trademark for all the characters he ever played . And of course the Nazi's in this movie are made out to look as ruthless cold-hearted villains . It's pretty obvious that this movie was of course a piece of anti-Nazi propaganda , released in 1943 . Still watchable , as long as you don't expect too much fireworks from it or of Flynn .
Better than the first movie but still suffers from some of the same problems .	What I sometimes like about sequels is that they make seem that the film-makers have learned from their previous mistake during the last movie . This was previously for instance the case with the other superhero movies " X2 " , which was a better movie than " X-Men " and " Spider-Man 2 " , which was better than the first movie . This movie also learned from some of its mistakes it previous made in " Fantastic Four " . Well , not all though . What it definitely learned was that it needed some more fun in it . The movie is more entertaining to watch and there is some more comedy to enjoy as well this time . Unfortunately the story is just as weak and gets also brought just as weak as was the case with the previous . The main plot just never gets developed good enough and the movie seems too much in love with its four main characters . The ending just also seems to come out of nowhere because of that , since how , when , why just never got explained good enough . Luckily it has the Silver Surfe in it this time , who still nice to spice up things . There also is some more action but it also gives you the feeling it is not enough or it certainly isn't big enough . The special effects have definitely been improved this time , which makes the movie more convincing to watch . Also the make-up for The Thing seemed to had been even more improved but Jessica Alba's chest on the other hand was still as distracting as ever , which is not a bad thing though . Basically all the characters from the first movie return and then there are also some new additions to the cast this time . The Silver Surfer is a welcome addition and he is a good looking and also interesting character . But you can wonder if it was necessary for the movie to bring Dr . Doom back . You sort of feel that the only reason they included his character was because when was being hinted at a sequel , during the previous movie , it was hinted that his character had survived . But you can actually really wonder if his character for this movie really adds anything and was necessary at all . Just basically some good simple fun , as long as your expectations for it aren't too high .
The Za ginipiggu-series goes comedy !	The previous Za ginipiggu movies were all quite serious movies , featuring as much blood and gore as possible , without serving a purpose - or try to tell a story really . This entry picks a more light approach , making this movie more like a comedy than anything else really . It makes the movie a more pleasant and entertaining watch , which in return also makes this a better and less pointless movie to watch than its predecessors . Yes , of course the movie still features lots of blood , when a man tries to commit suicide in multiple different ways but fails each time . It makes the movie strangely morbidly funny . The guy is a looser , who can't even commit suicide right . It's comedy doesn't make its gore any less gory though , just more easy to handle . Its different approach of things makes this definitely a better and as well a more entertaining movie to watch . It's still a pretty pointless movie but it's fun nonsense .
Professionally made and with some great acting but the script could had used some more work .	I heard lots of positive things about " The Interpreter " and expected a good tense thriller . " The Interpreter " however turned out to be a rather messy movie with an unclear story . It wasn't clear from the beginning were the movie was heading to . The movie is lacking a real main plot line and seems to consist only out of some side-plot lines thrown together to make a movie . The movie isn't really interesting to watch cause we never get to care about the characters . Nicole Kidman's character remains too mysterious and unpredictable to connect to and Sean Penn plays a standard typical US Secret Service agent role , who recently lost his wife . Nothing new here . Yes , of course Kidman and Penn are great actors and a great as well in their roles but still they don't succeed in giving the movie a humane , realistic face . It really isn't their fault , it simply is the incoherent script that obviously went through many rewrites , that ruined all of the movie its potential . Sydney Pollack ( he also plays a small uncredited role in the movie ) is a great actor-director but he isn't an awful good storyteller . Most of the scene's don't really feel connected and almost every scene has a kind of ' unclear ' feeling . I say ' unclear ' because it's ' unclear ' in some of the scene's were they're heading to and what their purpose in the story is . Some moments simply don't connect and / or don't feel right . Still the movie is somewhat saved and carried by Penn and Kidman . Especially Penn is great in his role , as always . The movie is professionally looking and is made with lots of talent and flair but it simply is the story that makes this movie nothing more than an average thriller . Yes , it certainly is a watchable movie but I most definitely won't recommend it wholeheartedly to anyone . A disappointment . Still ( political ) thriller fans will find some pleasure in watching this movie . Don't expect to be blown away by it though .
The guinea pig-series goes all weird again .	The guinea pig-series is a quite odd and unique franchise . The series began as a snuff-type of franchise in which women get tortured in as many ways as imaginable . The series then also picked later some more comical and artistic approaches . This movie is like a mix of a more comical and artistic approach . It isn't really the best blend imaginable but this movie is maintaining enough to please the fans of the genre and of the odd Japanse series in general . Due to its approach the movie is never quite serious to look upon its gore as something shocking or disgusting . Yet this movie still foremost picks a more of a serious approach with its story and because of this the movie also can't quite be called a humorous one . The movie is basically in between genres and it's also a real middle of the road movie . Obviously it's not really a movie for just everyone but if you are familiar with some of the other movies from the series , this movie is still well worth watching for you .
More professionally done and this is definitely an improvement	Compared to the first movie , this is is considerably better . It's done far more professional and has a better visual look over it , making this movie more convincing and compelling to watch than the first movie from the Za ginipiggu-series . This movie really looks - and is made like a movie , rather than a cheap and lame snuff-wannabee . The concept remains the same though ; A young woman is being kidnapped and held captive , with the pure purpose to torture her in as many different ways as imaginable . It's a rather graphic and gory movie , with some convincing effects but unfortunately not so convincing sound effects . Sometimes the sound effects are unintentionally hilarious , which does take away some of the power of the movie its visuals . Of course it's a totally pointless sadistic gory shocker but the fans of gore simply don't need more . The movie for them will be a memorable and ' enjoyable ' experience . The movie is quite short and also the torturing itself is ended pretty quickly when the torturer simply decides to switch over to dismembering his victim pretty early on . The movie could had worked out more interesting and intriguing had it been a bit longer and taken some more time to build up to its ' climax ' . Better than the first one but still a pretty pointless movie to watch .
Can't believe how much this movie is being praised .	Most of the time it's not OK to like a Steve Martin movie , except for one of his early movies , of which this is one of those . However this movie really isn't as good as funny as people making it sound it is . Basically , the movie was simply not funny enough . And it's not like my name is Grumpy . I chuckled only a couple of times but further more the movie only annoyed me with its stupid simple story and not really likable characters . Not really Steve Martin's fault though that this movie doesn't work out as funny . He is really great as a half-man-half-woman , when a deceased woman possesses the right side of his body . He plays it convincing and funny and it's a pretty amazing job , the more you start thinking about it . It also is not like I hated watching this movie , since it's basically a non-stop comedy that trows jokes at you , of which only a few are really effective . I sort of hate this comedies with simple , stupid stories with no effort put into it . Most plot-lines also really don't get wrapped up properly . It also disturbed me how totally non-likable the characters were . Basically each character in this movie is a beep or a beep . How are you seriously supposed to care about them or what will ever happen to them . Especially Edwina Cutwater is not a character to love and so is also really the Steve Martin character , who cheats on his girlfriend , even after telling her he wants to marry her he still runs off with another dame . Still worth watching on a rainy afternoon when you really have nothing else to do .
A mess but not always a fine one .	I don't really understand why this movie is rated so highly , especially when compared to other far more superior Laurel & Hardy shorts . Real problem with this movie is that it only relies on one comical premise . The jokes and humor are because of that restrained and too often too much of the same . The movie is lacking in some true laughs and comical / slapstick moments , even though of course the movie still perfectly entertains . The story is simple and a remake of the far superior comedy short " Duck Soup " . Of course Laurel & Hardy movies always have a simple story , as they should in my opinion but in this case some more creativity wouldn't had been a bad idea . Not even James Finlayson in a small role can make the story feel lively and creative . Basically the most amusing character of the movie is being played by Charles K . Gerrard . Never a good sign when the most amusing character in a Laurel & Hardy movie is being played by a supporting actor . Sure , Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are amusing in their roles and they provide the movie with some good moments but it all was a bit too simple for my taste and really lacked in true comical creativity . Certainly not a bad movie and still worth seeing and entertaining enough but nevertheless the movie isn't as good or funny as the rating here at the moment ( 7 . 4 ) would suggest .
Greta Garbo is in top form in this hard to watch and somewhat disjointed movie .	This is Garbo's first ever talking role but she acts as if she has done nothing else before . What makes the movie however hard and also sort of unpleasant to watch is it's storytelling . The movie is set up like a stage-play , so most of the time the characters just sit around and talk . All we see in the first 30 minutes for instance are characters being drunk and complaining a lot about life . The movie is of course also based on a stage-play , so no great wonder that the storytelling in this movie also feels like one . But if I want to watch something like this I would to to the theater . There are of course some good stage-play to movies translations but I guess that back in 1930 they didn't had a real good idea yet or the experience to translate a stage-play well to the silver-screen . The movie is now instead a sort of a bore in parts , since its obviously dragging at moments . The movie is also of course very limited in its settings and the movie often jumps from the one setting to the other , as if the curtain had dropped and a new set had been build-up during the break . The movie just never really feels as one big whole and it instead feels as if it consists out of different acts . It's a very static movie . It's not just only a hard movie to follow because of its storytelling and settings but also because of all of the heavy accents of the actors . On top of that , the sound recording quality of course wasn't that good yet back in 1930 so not everything that is being said is understandable . Also the picture quality of the movie isn't that good anymore . Time hasn't been kind on it . The image is sort of fuzzy in parts and the movie is perhaps more gray than truly black & white . It is definitely true that the movie gets better and better when it heads toward its ending but it didn't made me forget it's way weaker first 30 minutes and disjointed storytelling in the movie overall .
Udo Kier shines as a sensual and dramatic Count Dracula .	Even though this movie is far from the best Dracula movie and it doesn't live long on in memory , it still is a perfectly watchable movie to watch . Main and perhaps only reason why this movie is perfectly good to watch , is the portrayal of Udo Kier as Count Dracula . He doesn't portray Dracula really as a scary character but more as a tragic and vulnerable villain . I like his approach of the classic character . Also both his accent and looks are just simply perfect for the role . The story however is a bit dragging and doesn't really seem to go anywhere . The characters also aren't really much good and I couldn't tell the 3 daughters apart because they looked too much like each other ! Oh and Joe Dallessandro is an horrible actor , amazing thing that he managed to play parts in movies ever since . Funny thing is that Arno Juerging once again plays Udo Kier's servant , the same sort of role he played in " Flesh for Frankenstein " . The movie is not really scary or gory , except for ending , what a gruesome death for Dracula that was ! Yes it's watchable but not a must see Dracula movie by any means , not even for the fans .
Promising beginning and a good ending but a weak , underdeveloped middle part .	The movie starts well and promising . Initionally the movie seems like a cool , simple , typical ' 80's action flick , with some well known actors in it . However as the movie progresses the pace is gone and the movie gets filled with underdeveloped plot lines and characters . Luckily the movie re-finds its pace toward the ending , which helps to make this movie still a watchable and good one , for the genre-fans . I think that the main problem with this movie is that its too short . Because of this nothing in the movie really fully gets developed , such as Sylvester Stallone's character's relationship with his ex-wife or who exactly was Peter Hartman , who seemed like a good and interesting enough character but unfortunately was highly underused and developed in the movie . He walked around without a real purpose despite the fact that he could had been a so much more relevant and interesting character for the movie and its story . Also they could had made the whole hunt of DaSilva ( Sylvester Stallone ) on Wulfgar ( Rutger Hauer ) so much more exciting , tense and spectacular . An hunter who hunts a hunter . Instead now their hate toward each other feels unfounded and perhaps even silly and unlikely at certain moments . Yet the tree main characters of the movie are still quite good . The two cops played by Sylvester Stallone and Billy Dee Williams form a nice and credible duo and Rutger Hauer perfectly plays a villainous cold-hearted terrorist . Hollywood needs more villain actors like him , it would make so many movies so much better . Its definitely true that the presence of this tree fine actors uplift the movie and help to make this a still slightly above average one . The whole plot line of a ruthless , professional terrorist causing mayhem in New York is quite original ( at least for its period ) and works refreshing and help to make this movie quite an original action-flick , although his motivations still remain a bit in the dark and shaky to find it all credible enough . But of course the movie works well enough as mindless entertainment , though it perhaps could had used some more and bigger action sequences . The movie has ' 80's written all over it . Movies from the ' 80's don't have the greatest visual style and also mostly always have some horrible ' 80's music . This movie is unfortunately no exception on this all . All in all its not a bad action flick and it will most likely please the genre-fans , also thanks to the presence of ' 80's action icon Sylverst Stallone and villain expert actor Rutger Hauer .
Way too predictable and over-sentimental at times to make this a good movie .	The story is way too predictable , basically you already know how this is going to end after you've seen the first 5 minutes . Also some of the scene's are way too over-sentimental to make the story feel believable and touching . I mean , Billy and his tough father playing and laughing on the ground ? Please . . . I seriously almost changed channels after that . Still there are some elements in this movie that prevent this from being a silly over the top drama . The good subtle British humor and atmosphere is one of them . Jamie Bell's acting is the other . This is one tough role for such a young guy and he pulls of more than great . Watchable but not really that recommendable .
Cheap looking , incoherent put together movie , that is only watchable due to its originality .	Talking about over-hyped . . . This independent movie does not live up to its hype . It's a poorly put together low budget movie that nowhere gets tense or engaging . Still the originality of the concept makes this movie a somewhat watchable one , even though the end result still remains disappointing . It looked as if like they didn't even had a finished script while shooting this movie . To me it seemed like they randomly shot some sequences and the movie was put together in the editing room , out of several hours of random shot footage . It seemed like they were improvising as they went along . At times there was really no connectivity between the different sequences and the time-line was flawed . Yes , it really is the amateur look and feeling of the movie that kills it . The sound is really poor at times , as is the camera-work . The dialog of the movie was perhaps even worse . And no , I'm not really talking about the dialog when they are in the water but more about the dialog before that , when the movie is still set on the land . The dialog is really about nothing and incredibly lame at times . Also this of course can also be due to the poor actors that deliver those lines . The concept of the movie is great and it sounds like great thriller material . The movie however feels really distant and the characters and storytelling are not engaging enough . Because of this the movie really lacks tension and realism , which is also due to the amateur quality of filming of course . Not bad but still very flawed piece of independent film-making .
Stupid and lame but funny at the same time .	The movie is full with very , very stupid scene's that are funny at the same time which makes this movie in a way irresistible to watch . The story is just a lame excuse to make a movie full with jokes . So Basically the story serves no purpose at all and it are the jokes and the jokes only that make the movie . Some of the jokes are really lame and stupid and some of the jokes are so lame and stupid that they are actually funny . The humor is typical Jim Abrahams like and a must see for his fans and fans of Leslie Nielsen movies . I never thought I would say this but Charlie Sheen is unfortunately no Leslie Nielsen . He just is not the greatest comical talent I have seen . Cary Elwes however does surprising good and Lloyd Bridges is simply hilarious , I have to admit that I laughed at nearly every scene with him in it . Not the best comedy of all time but funny enough to watch over and over again .
The ultimate kids movie !	The movie serves it's purpose very well and that purpose is to entertain the young ones . Oh boy , did I loved this movie as a kid and so did all my friends . However now that I'm older I of course look differently at the movie and I've also more critic at it . It's a fantastic fantasy movie that suffers from a silly story and bad looking sets . It's so obviously filmed in a studio , that it truly reminded me of an old B-movie from the 50's . And sure , the story is original and fun but it also has some silly and just plain weird plot lines in it , that don't suit the movie because they distract too much from the main plot line and will probably bore the kids as well . The performances are excellent . Robin Williams actually plays one of the best roles out of his career ! Dustin Hoffman is highly amusing as Captain Hook and the lost boys are just awesome ! The movie has some excellent jokes and funny moments in it , which all makes the movie more than pleasant to watch . The action is Spielberg-like-good and the cinematography and music are more than excellent . The ending is somewhat disappointing because . . . well , it just looks weird and too fake , like it was rushed ( which it probably also was ) . However I don't think it's really fair from us grown ups to judge over this movie since it was obviously made for kids . So let the young ones judge this movie . I'm sure they'll enjoy it and are capable of looking past the fake looking sets and other weaker points of the movie . They most likely won't be disappointed and shall enjoy watching it from start till finish , unlike probably most of the fair and objective adults . Nevertheless , I still consider this to be the ultimate kids movie !
What a bleak show .	" The 80th Annual Academy Awards " shall go down in history as the show that almost wasn't there and the year without any surprises . The evening was nothing too bad but it all was just so standard and also the winners themselves didn't really gave away any memorable speeches or moments . While watching this I couldn't help wondering ; How good would they show had been if there was still a writer's strike ? Because of the writer's strike , this award show got almost narrowed done to an evening that would show montages from previous Academy Awards ceremonies and the winners being announced in between . It's obvious that they still implemented some of these montages in the actual show and to be honest , the montages were also the best moments during the evening . It showed all the previous movies that ever won for best picture and lots of winning actors and actresses as well as a couple of humorous montages such as one that paid homage to binoculars and one about waking up after having bad dreams . When especially compared to other years , there were hardly any political jokes or statements being made . Not even a lot of Obama , Clinton or Bush references . Not by presenter Jon Stewart , nor by any of the award winners . Not even any Iraq references were being made , other then of course the nominated documentaries , focusing on Iraq . Jon Stewart himself did a fair enough job as the evening's presenter . He had a couple of good fun moments but for most part of the evening he was just standing there filling up the gaps and announce the next categories . There was hardly any improvisation involved . Blame it on the writer's strike ? Most likely yes , for also the award presenters themselves hardly said anything , funny , good or memorable . All of the usual suspect were also present handing out the award , also no big surprises or anything memorable there . The only surprising thing perhaps there was Owen Wilson , who a couple of months ago attempted a suicide attempt . Guess he just wanted to show his face that he was still around and ready to make his Hollywood return . But also then again ; what's the point of letting him present something if he isn't going to do anything funny ? Basically all he did was entering the stage and said ; the nominees are . . . and the winner is . And as for the winners , well really were there any surprises ? The only thing perhaps was Marion Cotillard wining best actress in a leading role for " La Môme " . But other then that ; " No Country for Old Men " winning best picture , the Coen brothers winning best director , Daniel Day-Lewis winning , Javier Bardem winning and so on . None of the categories provided any surprising winners . Besides " No Country for Old Men " , the other big winner of the evening was " The Bourne Ultimatum " for winning three out of three Oscar ' , even though not for the most important categories obviously . Some great filmmakers spend their entire directing career without winning an Oscar ( Hithcock , Kubrick ) . I just can't help that I lost some of the respect I had for the Coen brothers after appearing on stage for each of their 3 wins , including best picture and best directing . I always thought that they were a couple of awesome young dogs who only made movies they really wanted to make but as it turns out they are pretty boring individuals . They acted like this was a normal every day for them and the Oscar was not a big thing for them . Perhaps the nicest winners of the evening were Diablo Cody for winning for best original screenplay for " Juno " , who was genuinely happy and emotional and Glen Hansard and Markéta Irglová for winning best original song for " Once " . It was nice that they won , since it was a simply made movie , made on a shoe-string budget and with a couple of camcorder but became an huge success nevertheless . It also was nice that they allowed Markéta Irglová back on the stage to make her acceptance speech , after being cut off by the music before . Perhaps a good idea to give EACH of the award winners the time to make an acceptance speech ? I think it's quite disrespectful that in the case of three winners , only one is given the chance and time to make a speech . I mean , some of these people will probably never win an Oscar again . so please let them just enjoy this moment . Interesting thing to notice was also the amount of international winners , from outside the English speaking countries . It shows that not the best movies and filmmakers are all come from Hollywood and film-making has become a real universal thing , perhaps more than ever before . But really , do you always need to make a WW II to get nominated for best foreign movie ? When is this going to change . It was nice for Austria to win their first ever Oscar for " Die Fälscher " but they really need to broaden their view on foreign films , since there are so many other nice films around , concentrating on totally different subjects . Forgettable show , without any surprises , which perhaps is also a good thing since this doesn't annoy - or make anyone mad about things .
Could had been way better with a more experienced director .	" Hitman " is basically a well made and good looking movie but with one big flaw to it . The story just never really flows well . The movie feels inconsistent , with basically just the one action sequence after the other , which really makes you loose interested into the actual story of the movie . Because of this , the story of " Hitman " just doesn't work out . The story instead now mostly remains confusing and not everything seems really connected enough . I'm not saying Xavier Gens is a bad director , or " Hitman " is a bad movie but you can just tell by looking at this that with a more experienced director at the helm , who had the abilities to the make the story flow well , this could had really been a superior modern action-flick . The movie now instead is perhaps style over substance . Especially its action sequences are well directed and great looking , making this simply a fine action-flick to watch . The movie gets really carried by those sequences and are what is making " Hitman " still a seriously fine and enjoyable flick to watch . You don't have to be a fan of the video games to enjoy this movie . Because the story doesn't really work out , the character of agent 47 also doesn't really . They try to give him a more humane face and he wants to start a normal life on his own . The movie builds up and hints to this constantly but in the end it doesn't wrap it up properly , which makes it look like as if all those moments within the movie are pointless and don't serve a significant enough purpose for the main character . Same goes for the love interest played by former model Olga Kurylenko . In the long run you're only wondering ; ' Now what was exactly the purpose of this character in the movie ? ' . Perhaps it's also Timothy Olyphant fault , who plays the movie its main character . At times he's acting too much , rather than being agent 47 enough . Agent 47 is cool and to the point , who never looses his focus on things . In this movie he's constantly struggling with himself and the world and by default he also has way too many lines , in my personal opinion . I think that the character would had worked out way better if he had been an almost complete mute . It would had made the character cooler and more mysterious and would had given the other actors , mainly Olga Kurylenko and Dougray Scott , to do their thing and become the more ' human ' face of the movie . For Olga Kurylenko is especially a real discovery . She had starred in movies before but mostly in small unknown small French flicks . But main thing is that she can really act and she of course also has the looks , which helps her a lot . Because of those two reasons she also got cast as Bond-girl in the new Bond movie " Quantum of Solace " , which will be released later this year . All in all , " Hitman " is a movie , with superior action sequences , that I enjoyed watching but its story and main approach of things prevent this from being an absolute genre must-see .
Interesting and uninteresting at the same time .	The concept of the movie is pretty interesting ; The post WW II effects on Germany . Too bad that the movie chooses a completely uninteresting approach . The story seems to be going nowhere and for an hour it mostly consists out of continuing drivel between Gene Kelly and Pier Angeli . The movie shows some mystery and action tendencies but none of them really pushes through . It makes " The Devil Makes Three " an unsatisfying and also quite redundant movie to watch , despite its very interesting and also original concept . There really aren't that many movies that concentrate on post WW II Germany . Too bad that they couldn't come up with a more interesting story and approach of it . The movie does get much better and interesting in the end , when a new Nazi order comes in the story but there is nothing in the story before this that even hints to this plot-element . The movie as a whole therefor feels disjointed and the ending comes too late to safe the movie as a whole . Director Andrew Marton had more success working as a second unit director , with movies such as " Ben-Hur " , " Kelly's Heroes " and " The Day of the Jackal " . It definitely helps that the movie was obviously shot at location and in the early ' 50's , right after WW II . Germany was still in ruins for some parts and the movie uses this backdrop gratefully . It helps to make the movie look and feel realistic and it works obviously better than the normal fake - and studio work . All of the locations seem to be the real thing , including Hitler's Eagle's nest ( The Kehlsteinhaus ) , that was near Berchtesgaden , which at the time of filming was subsequently used by the Allies as a military command post until 1960 , when it was handed back to the State of Bavaria . Guess lots of people are having trouble with seeing Gene Kelly in such a serious role as this one but in all fairness , he pulls it off quite well . He shows that he also knew how to act , besides being normally mostly just a ' show-man ' or entertainer . Pier Angeli also plays nicely but her character just isn't the most compelling one . At first you mostly hate her and she is irritating , in the second halve of the movie you're supposed to care about her . This approach just doesn't work out , at least not good enough . Not an awful movie but still an uninteresting and redundant one .
An OK comedy .	The most funny thing about this movie is the concept . A man ( Samuel L . Jackson ) is because of his skin color mistaken for a burglar . When the police surrounds the house and realize the mistake they made they come up with the idea of letting a real criminal ( Nicolas Cage ) take the black man hostage and hold him for ransom to avoid the bad publicity . Sounds like a good concept for a comedy , unfortunately it sounds better than it is . Nicolas Cage is not the greatest comical talent and Samuel L . Jackson once again plays the role that he played so many times before , the black man who becomes the victim of white society . He plays the same role as he did in " Die Hard : With a Vengeance " and to be frank I'm getting tired of him playing this kind of roles . I really love Samuel L . Jackson but he should stop playing this kind of roles . Luckily Dabney Coleman and Brad Dourif still provide some good comical moments . For a comedy it certainly lacks some funny moments , there are some but simply not enough to make a good comedy . A nice effort but the result is a not completely successful and at times empty comedy . An OK comedy to kill some time with but not a must see .
Good enough but hardly the best the genre has currently to offer .	This is a good looking and also rather cute movie . However the story is lacking and I just can't help seeing this movie as a missed opportunity . Like often is the case with animated movies , there is a morale to find in the movie as well . They did not only tried to put one moralistic message into the movie but more than a couple of them . The story suffers from this , especially toward the ending of the movie . It also has as a result that not all of the messages work out well enough in the movie , because the one is more obvious and prominently featured than the other . Perhaps the movie should had stayed put more to its main story-line , instead of diverting so much with its side-plots and characters . It would had made the movie overall more consistent and the its morals and messages all the more powerful as well . The movie showed some more potential really with its songs . The movie uses some famous evergreens and combines several songs brilliantly ( done by John Powell himself ) . The dancing routines from the penguins all add to this as well . As a purely musical orientated movie , this would had been a great movie to watch I'll bet . But like I said before , the movie chooses the divert constantly from its main-plot , in order to develop and create some overly present morals and messages . It's a good looking movie , so nothing wrong in the graphic department but it also isn't exactly anything new or spectacular looking . When computer animated movies were still new , they really put some time and effort in those movies , with as a result some visual spectacles . When the big studios realized some serious money was to make from those movies , dozens of movies got created each year , preferable for less money and done in less time , in order to raise the profits even more . " Happy Feet " is obviously one of those movies . Nothing wrong with this if the movie actually still entertains and knows to grab you . Overall this movie does entertaining but I also must say that the movie could had been made way more entertaining as well . The movie isn't filled with an awful lot of jokes and more leans on its cute looking - and odd characters . However when the movie makes some hits , it really hits and knows to entertain and make you laugh . Like most animated movies , this movie also has an impressive A-list voice cast , with people such as Elijah Wood , Brittany Murphy , Hugh Jackman , Nicole Kidman , Hugo Weaving and of course expert Robin Williams . It's an overall watchable and entertaining enough movie from George Miller but the story just didn't do it for me .
Quite bad actually , if it weren't for the Ali G character .	This is actually a quite lame comedy with some extremely childish humor but it all still somewhat works out due to the presence of the legendary Ali G character in it all . Even though this movie has basically nothing to do with the " Da Ali G Show " the character still works out as well in this movie . It's of course a ridicules and outrageous character but he's all the more hilarious because of it . It's obviously a satire on the whole rap and hip hop scene and it's still Sacha Baron Cohen most legendary character , despite the successes he has had with Borat and Brüno . The movie has some very childish humor , which mostly is about sex and it has an almost non-existent story . It's just the kind of movie in which the story really doesn't matter . It's all purely about the main character . Even the lamest and most predictable movie in this movie will still surely make you laugh a couple of times . " Ali G Indahouse " is not the most hilarious movie ever made or the best thing Sacha Baron Cohen has done in his life but it's good enough for a couple of dumb silly laughs . Still the movie gives you the feeling it has more misses than hits in it but jokes are bombarded at you so fast that you just tend to sort of forget the movie its weaker moments and enjoy the movie its more funny moments . Quite amazing actually that respected actors such as Michael Gambon and Charles Dance appeared in this type of movie . Or perhaps they knew of Ali G's success and just wanted to be a part of it . Still I feel that when looking back at it they won't regard this as their finest moment . Good enough for a couple of dumb laughs .
A few hundred snakes and 2 minutes of Clint Howard .	You could call this movie " Arachnophobia " only with , well , snakes . It has a comparable story and even some of the characters shows similarities . " Arachnophobia " is still a more entertaining movie though , while " Rattled " also isn't too bad on its own . It chooses a more serious approach but not without being entertaining . Quite amazing that a movie with such a concept still picks a serious approach . Nevertheless it works out better than you would expect . While " Rattled " isn't exactly an exciting or scary movie to watch it's still an effective one . Maybe it would had been better still if it had picked a more B-movie , over-the-top , type of approach but this also didn't really worked out well for " Eight Legged Freaks " , so well who knows , maybe this was still the best possible approach to go with in the long run . It's of course a fairly predictable movie , that because of that , also doesn't ever become an engaging or thrilling one . The characters also aren't interesting enough for that and at times the movie even feels more like a soap-opera than a real horror flick . Also quite disappointing that the snakes get to do so little interesting . Or at least I expected an higher body-count . Only poor Clint Howard gets killed , after he has been in the movie for about 2 minutes . The snakes do attack but they could had given the movie a bigger sense of danger and more horror like if more characters got killed off and also in some more gruesome ways . The movie now remains fairly light and tame to watch , which is also understandable , considering that this is a made for TV movie . In that regard of being a made for TV movie , this is still a rather good one and well made one . It's definitely better than you would expect in advance for it to be and the concept works out better than it looks like on paper .
Stone's attempt to tell an entire political life career is an uneven one .	In one way " Nixon " is an excellent movie , on the other it's a failure . The movie is made with lots of style and solid acting performances but on the other hand the story is confusing , due to the high pace , much information and many characters . The movie is simply too short to cover the entire political life of Richard M . Nixon . Watergate , the Vietnam war , the white house tapes , Nixon's two terms it simply is all too much to tell in just one movie . Stone even manages to put some flashbacks in , about how Nixon grew up , something that was not really needed in my opinion . The movie too often gets confusing also because the pace is so incredible high . There is too much information to deal with . Still the movie is perfectly watchable , especially if you're a fan of Stone's visual style . I love the editing and the cinematography by Robert Richardson is superb ! The acting is also great but what else did you expect from a cast like this ? The movie is filled with some big names . OK Hopkins doesn't look at all like Nixon but still his performances is an impressive one and Joan Allen truly deserved her Oscar nomination . She perhaps is the strongest character of the entire movie . So conclusion is , is that this movie is best watchable for the Stone fans . If you want to know more about Nixon's political career this movie is not the best thing to start of with .
About as good as a 2 minutes short can get .	When you are going to watch a 2 minutes short animated film you know it is not going to be a masterpiece unless it has a good joke at the end . Unfortunately " Date Double " doesn't has this . It sounds weird for a 2 minute short but the movie is a bit too long . After about 30 seconds you have already seen it and you are waiting for it to end . It is good for a few laughs but it is just not something I rave about and tell my friends to have a quick look at it on the Internet . The quality is good although the voice recording is not top class . You can hear that none of the voice actors where in the same room at the time of recording . They say their line's without really acting to anyone , at least it sounds that way . Not a bad short film but no must see or anything .
Really misses the entertainment of the original .	What made the 1999 cut of the movie so great was its entertainment value . It was an incredibly fun movie to watch , with a cool fun style and soundtrack and some nice twists and turns to its story . All of that is basically gone in this version and its a much darker and serious one . After production finished the Brian Helgeland was deemed too dark and not suitable for the mainstream public . A re-write got done and scene's got re-shot by a different director for the original theatrical release . 90 % of the times that a studio decides to do this and changes a movie entire , it isn't for the best . Director's cuts are therefor often way better than the original released versions . However this time I have to say I agree with the studio . This version is a much poorer written and constructed one that lacks whit , charm and whatever more . The 1999 " Payback " was an original and fun movie to watch , " Payback : Straight Up - The Director's Cut " however is just one typical revenge flick that just isn't among the best the genre has to offer . You could say that this movie is more of a thriller , while the original , even though it was more entertaining , was done much more film-noir style , that was also a more violent one as well . What is surprisingly different as well in this movie are its characters . It's amazing what some editing , a visual - and musical style and different scene additions can do to a character . The main character is much darker and seems basically depressed all of the time . It just makes Mel Gibson less great to watch in this version . Also most of the other characters don't work out halve as effective . The whole Maria Bello story-line and character in particular don't work out at all and seem totally out of place . The movie is just overall also often too slow and dull to watch . Some sequences drag on for too long and not everything in the flows well . The movie story-wise actually isn't that much different from the original release , until its final 30 minutes or something . The movie its ending is a totally different one . I must say that the ending of this movie is just a much weaker one that besides comes far too sudden and isn't really very satisfying . Lacks all of the whit , charm , originality and entertainment of the original version . As a director's cut this movie is nothing but a disappointment . Just watch the 1999 " Payback " instead .
Die Hard on a ship .	This movie is one of the best Steven Seagal movies but not that that is saying much of course . It's a pretty simple action movie , as action movies are supposed to be . It has a simple plot and basically only serves as an excuse to let the Seagal character kill as many villains as possible , preferably with a knife . It however is a better than average movie for a couple of reasons . Most important reason for this are the villains . Not the characters themselves but more the actors that portray them . Tommy Lee Jones , Gary Busey and Colm Meaney play the main villains . Three awesome actors . Especially Tommy Lee Jones is great , namely toward the ending when all the breaks are off by him . And I never expected to see Gary Busey as a drag queen . That was awesome , as well as unexpected ( and completely unnecessary by the way once you really start thinking about it ) . I however felt that the villains were not enough present in the movie and the movie mainly was a Steven Seagal-flick , which will definitely still mainly pleases his fans of course . The action is good , although it mostly consists out of only shootouts and a couple of explosions . The knife fights were a bit too ridicules in my opinion but I guess Seagal himself enjoyed it more as I did . It didn't exactly made the movie any more credible . The movie itself is quite honestly nothing too spectacular , just an entertaining enough action-flick . The movie its reputation is definitely better than the actual movie itself . The musical score by Gary Chang is surprising good and worth owning and listening to . In the end the movie is nothing more than a " Die Hard " wannabe set on a ship this time . It still has power and quality on its own but not quite enough to regard this movie as one of the best or most memorable movies out of the genre . The movie is only maybe a little memorable thanks to its three main villains .
Too stylish for its own good .	This movie is so flashy and fast put together , that it starts to look and feel like an overdone attempt , with lots of ( ridicoules ) computer gadgets and fighting sequences . The style works in the wrong way , especially in the action sequences . I'm sorry but I really found the action sequences to be very laughable and completely overdone . It always seems weird to me how Asian action movies constantly seem to be stealing from The Matrix movies , with both their action and style . As if Asian action movies need that . This movie also unfortunately is an example of this . The editing is way too fast and to me it seemed like it was done in a very childish and predictable way . Again , as if they were just trying to hard . It also gets sort of annoying after a while that there constantly is a ventilator aimed at Qi Shu in basically every action sequence . The movie has some irritating and weird choices in the use of music , as is the original movie score on its own , that just does not seem to fit the movie very well . The movie features some bad acting . Even though I don't speak the language I could tell that the actors really weren't much good , in the way they were delivering their lines . The story isn't that much special . It's not very well developed and the movie isn't really going anywhere . The movie too often seems to be concentrating more on the personal and the drama rather than its action , which seemed weird to me , since this is a movie that's made completely in action movie style . Sure , it has some interesting developments and themes in it , such as lesbianism and it's a nice approach that all of the action heroes in this movie are women . So it's a real feminist action flick but that perhaps is the only real good and original element about this movie . OK I did not found this movie to be terrible but it was just lacking on so many fronts . In all fairness it remains a perfectly watchable movie but only to kill some time with and if you have nothing better to do . The movie was unfortunately not as good and certainly not as original as I initially hoped .
I laughed , so somehow it works .	first of all I can understand how someone could love this movie but I can also understand how someone could totally hate it . This movie and especially its humor is really a matter of taste more than anything else . I wouldn't dare to call this movie a good one . In fact it's far from it . Most of the moments in the movie make absolutely no sense and there is almost absolutely no story present . Most of the humor is also very vulgar and just totally over-the-top gross and visual . But yet this movie also really made me laugh . So how could I , when being completely fair and unbiased , possible call this movie a bad one ? I think that this movie is so bad that it becomes good . The jokes in the movie really aren't that strong but because they are delivered so incredibly over-the-top and stupid , it becomes truly an hilarious movie at times . Yes , so basically the movie is so stupid that it becomes a good one . The story is just totally weird and stupid and lacks some consistency . All of the events occurring in the movie don't really always feel connected . The comical situations are far from believable and they almost have nothing to do with the main story . In fact most of the time they are completely tasteless . Some , if not most people will probably not be able to handle this not so subtle sense of humor ( also hence the low rating here ) . No it absolutely is not the most subtle and consistent comedy ever made . Tom Green is totally over-the-top and crazy . He is not always funny but his character makes the crazy story somehow work . Rip Torn also shows his comical talent and he perhaps plays the best part of the movie . All of the other characters are somewhat muddled in to the crazy story . A comedy that doesn't make any sense but because of that becomes quite hilarious to watch at times . Clearly not a movie for everyone's taste obviously though .
The Muppet movie with the best human cast	The Muppets are back ! And they're having another great adventure . The story seems like a poor excuse to let the Muppets do so more and new crazy things . But does it really matter ? I don't think so , it's very entertaining and good for more then a few laughs . The characters are highly amusing and Sam The Eagle as always steals the show ! But the human cast is also amazing and forms the best Muppet movie cast . Tim Curry is excellent ! And Jennifer Saunders and Billy Connolly are very entertaining . Kevin Bishop however seems like a better stage player then a movie actor . The movie features some wonderful songs and the music by Hans Zimmer is surprising good ! The sets and all are however obvious fake and shot in a studio which is a bit of a shame but it doesn't make the movie less entertaining . Not at all ! Granted that it's not the best Muppet movie every made but still it's worth watching if you like the Muppets or if you like Tim Curry because he really is excellent in this one .
Be aware , it's a chick-flick !	It must be really hard to make a chick-flick . Take a couple of young female leads , some strong and some insecure characters , throw in a couple of love stories , preferably one about a forbidden and / or impossible love , some personal problems and death and you have basically all the ingredients you need . But then again , all genres are of course more or less like this . Throw in a couple of scares in a horror movie , some explosions in an action flick , etcetera . You just either dig a genre or you just don't . Chick-flicks are obviously just not my thing . Of course chick-flicks are more or less all the same , because they feature all of the usual ingredients , which I just mentioned . The movie also knows this , so it tries to throw in an original concept about a pair of pants that travels between 4 different befriended owners , who are spending their summer holiday for the first time away from each other . To me this whole pants thing just felt like an excuse to connect all of the 4 different stories within the movie , which are focusing on the 4 main characters . Basically when you put 4 episodes of a random similar American TV-series in a row , you'll have a movie just like this . The story features all of the - and as much drama as you could expect . Still the movie is not an horrible one and yet is also knows to become an original one with its approach and story , which in my opinion is mostly due to the leading actresses of the movie . They give the movie some life and emotion . It's also no coincidence that these actresses are leading ones in some successful TV-series , of which some got launched after this movie , while others already had a successful television career prior to this movie . They are also acting well with each other in this movie , which makes them look convincing as a group who has been friends since childhood . I especially liked Alexis Bledel very natural seeming acting style for this movie , even though normally I'm not a too big fan of her acting skills in many other things . Basically credit needs to go to all of the leading actresses but lets also not forget the young Jenna Boyd , who is a child-star that isn't annoying for a change and can also really act , as she proofs in this movie , with a very difficult and hard to play role at such a young age ( She was only around 12 at the time of this movie . ) . Thing with chick-flicks or most romantic movies for that matter , is that they pretend to be just like life and realistic with its story and approach but of course life as portrayed in these sort of movies just isn't true . You could say that the movie are ' falsy-realistic ' . But apparently this is just a thing to seems to attract ( teenage ) woman , making these sort of movies and this movie in particular also a perfectly watchable one for them .
It serves its purpose well enough .	I've seen the first movie " National Treasure " but I basically remember nothing about at it , so it really didn't made a lasting impression . I'm sure that in a couple of months from now I will have forgotten all about this movie as well , since its entertaining and all but also all pretty forgettable . The movie serves its purpose to entertain and you'll probably won't be bored while watching this movie but the movie also really isn't anything to spectacular . Both ' National Treasure ' movies were expense blockbuster , of well over $100 . 000 . 000 ( this movie actually cost about $130 , 000 , 000 ) , which sort of makes me wonder what all that money gets spend on these days . 10 years ago every $100 . 000 . 000 would had easily been amongst the top 10 of most expensive movies ever made , now days $100 . 000 . 000 will only give you movies such as " National Treasure : Book of Secrets " . It really doesn't look or feel as an over $100 . 000 . 000 production . For that amount of money some more fireworks could be expected . Basically " National Treasure : Book of Secrets " doesn't feature anything big or exceptional , which we haven't seen in any other movies before . The first movie was basically more or less a simpler version of " The Da Vinci Code " , while this movie tends to lean more toward the Indiana Jones movies , with a sniff of James Bond to it . So seriously nothing too original or new here , which is of course mostly due to the movie its script and storytelling . The script is simple , though yet of course not very likely . Sure , it's fun to treasure hunt and look for clues all over the world , on famous landmarks but not when basically every 5 minutes the movie is set at a different location ( probaly also partly explains the movie its high budget ) and we're looking for a new and different clue . This is just the kind of storytelling that does not ever work out very well . Basically the movie tries to achieve too much and a too short amount of time . But no , I wouldn't call this movie horrible or anything . It's still professionally made , though not with a lot of imagination . Perhaps it's time for Jon Turteltaub to pass on the directing honers to a new and different director for the third movie of the series , which is currently in its early production stages . It also obviously wouldn't hurt to hunt down a better script this time . But oh well , I at least I wasn't bored while watching this movie and therefor I can't really regard this movie as a weak one , since it obviously served its purpose to bring entertainment . Nicolas Cage seems to enjoy his role in these movies , which shows on the screen and he is well cast in his role . His acting is right for the part , though probably not a lot of people will agree with this , or at least they won't admit that they do . Most of the characters and actors from the first movie return again in this one ( Justin Bartha , Diane Kruger , Jon Voight ) , which is probably due to the fun it must be to make these sort of movies or perhaps just because of the fat paychecks . It also explains why actors such as Helen Mirren , Ed Harris and Harvey Keitel appeared in this sequel . They are just not the type of actors to normally appear in a big summer blockbuster . Nevertheless they of course are a welcome addition , though their characters aren't the most interesting ones and some roles even feel a bit redundant for the overall movie . Nothing too remarkable , just some decent entertainment .
Just one of those typical ' 40's WW II movies .	Often problem with these war time made WW II movies was that they were all basically the same . They of course all had a different story but were still all the same in terms of storytelling , overall style and character portrayals . In that regard " The Conspirators " is one of those dozens of typical made war time made movies about WW II . The movie features a quite messy disjointed story , involving Nazi's , underground fighter's , a romance and one traitor . It also is nothing too spectacular or original . The movie once more features both Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet . They played in quite a few movies together in the ' 40's , of which of course the most notable ones were " Casablanca " ( also starring Paul Henreid ) and " The Maltese Falcon " . My only complaint is that their roles are being pushed too much to the background . It focuses too much on Hedy Lamarr and Paul Henreid and their romance , which just isn't the most convincing or interesting element of the movie . Especially Lamarr is dreadful and feels terribly out of place within this movie . I must admit that the ending is absolutely fantastic though , which involves a game of roulette , with the resistance fighters sitting across a couple of Nazi's , while it is known that one of the resistance fighters is a mole and traitor and must pass a message to the Nazi's within 10 minutes , while they are playing the roulette . It probably sounds very James Bond like to you know but trust me if I say that this is one great and tense build up sequences , that forms a perfect finale for the movie , even though the movie does not end right after it . The movie as a whole just isn't always the most fast going one and therefore it also doesn't make this movie the most exciting or tense movie within its genre . Still of course the movie remains a perfectly watchable enough one .
Too slow , too boring , too average to be considered a worthy sequel .	This movie is not bad but it is simply too much of a repeating session of the first movie . The movie moves very slow and only really starts to become interesting after an hour . Luckily the movie begins to get pace a lot from the moment Rocky begins training again , which are also the best parts of the movie . The drama in the beginning just didn't do it for me , mainly because you already knew how it all would end . I'm sorry to say but Sly can't act . But still he is perfect for the role and I don't think the movie would have been any better without him . Somehow he still brings much live to the movie and the character . Talia Shire is good and believable as Rocky's shy girlfriend / wife . But what am I talking about drama and acting skills ? " Rocky " of course is all about boxing and everything else in the movie doesn't really matter . All the boxing scene's are amazing and I'm not just talking about the end fight but also about the training sessions also helped by Bill Conti's famous musical score which really gets you're adrenaline flowing . The biggest adrenaline rush of the movie is of course the end fight which just couldn't be long enough for me . The movie is worth watching for this alone and the ending actually always keeps bringing tears of joy to my eyes . Yes , I know I'm pathetic . The ending is of course totally over the top ; the music , the slow motion , the crowed , the tension but I love it ! Worth watching for the end fight alone .
One of the weaker Bond movies . Still good entertainment to watch of course !	I consider this movie to be one of the weaker one's out of the long series of Bond movies . Yes , sure it still has an entertainment value but it lacks some of the fundamental things that made most of the other Bond movies so good and fun to watch . Perhaps the thing that I find to be most disappointing about this movie is the action . Most of the Bond movies always have some cool fist fights and a big spectacular finale . The biggest fight sequence and finale in this movie are set underwater . I could be me , but I don't find underwater fights to be spectacular or terribly exciting to watch . Also the ending is completely ridiculous , mainly because it's so incredibly fake and ridiculous looking . Also the fact that James Bond doesn't kill the main villain in this one but another person does , just doesn't feel right and not suiting for the style of the series . The movie seriously lacks some memorable impressive sequence and therefor " Thunderball " is one of the more forgettable Bond movies . Another disappointing aspect are the Bond girls . Bond-girls have never been known for their acting skills but Claudine Auger really is a bad , charismatic-less actress , that just doesn't known how to make a lasting impression on the silver screen . Also Rik Van Nutter is a horrible Felix Leiter in this movie . The plot and the way it is told also isn't terribly exciting and might be a bit too confusing for the more casual viewer at times . So it could be just the story which makes this movie to be in my opinion , one of the weaker Bond movies but I think it's a combination of all those elements I mentioned before . Luckily Sean Connery still is in good form though in this movie . He is in his element as James Bond and he delivers some good one-liners . Also Bond-regulars Desmond Llewelyn , Bernard Lee and Lois Maxwell are luckily present in the movie , to still give the movie that typical ' Bond-feeling ' . The movie still is decent entertainment to watch but it's nothing memorable really , with the exception of the Tom Jones theme song maybe .
Nothing special or spectacular , just a well executed thriller .	" Still Nacht " is average in many ways . It's one of those typical movies were there is not an awful lot wrong with but it also ain't exactly anything special to watch . A typical movie . Watchable but not that highly recommendable . A thing that could have helped to make this movie a better one is the script . It's obvious that they wanted to create a realistic story and atmosphere , which makes it even more silly that yet the have put in some typical ' Hollywood ' thriller moments in the movie , including a typical Hollywood like ending . All of the male characters in the movie are also portrayed as sexual obsessed creatures . The anti-male message is a bit too much present for my taste . The acting is good but the good actors can't help concealing some of the weak dialog at times . There are some truly talented young actresses in this movie , of which I'm sure we will hear a lot more about in the future ( well , at least in The Netherlands we will . ) . The typical thriller like atmosphere is good and the movie is overall well executed . Ineke Houtman is a good and talented director , if you get the chance , see her other movie " Madelief : Krassen in het tafelblad " , it's one of the best executed and powerful children dramas I have ever seen . As for this movie , it's a good attempt but the script could have used some more work . Less Hollywood moments next time please , it would have helped to make the movie more believable and realistic . If you get the chance , see it on TV some time . It's not really worth owning it on DVD .
Doesn't quite live up to its reputation .	I was expecting quite a bit from this movie , as it's often being credited as being an intriguing WW II ( anti ) war documentary , that puts you right in the middle of things . It does feature some unique and straight-forward battle images but to me it just didn't all worked out . To me this movie looks and feels more like a news reel than an actual documentary about the accounts of the battle of San Pietro . This might sound like a compliment but it isn't really . The movie tells a story and it features lots of footage but it all feels glued together . To me it's even doubtful if the narration and images even belong together . The entire narration tells how the battle progressed but I doubted that all of the footage got shot during any of those talked about events . My suspicion got confirmed by the end of the movie , when a disclaimer got shown saying some of the footage got shot before and after the battle but were put into the movie for continuity reasons . The narration by John Huston keeps the movie going at all times but it makes things happen a bit too fast as well really . Guess this is not the creator's fault but more the war department's that heavily cut the movie down because the movie got considered to be too anti-war by them . The movie is mostly considered to be anti-war because it's being pretty straight-forward and of course honest . You'll see death bodies in this movie and allies taking some heavy blows by the Nazi-enemy . This of course however this present day only works out as realistic and more interesting as well . After watching this movie I still don't feel like I knew what happened all during the battle of San Pietro , or why this battle was considered to be such a distinctive or important one to the allied campaign . But this again is also mostly due to the movie its too high pace . WW II-buffs will still ' enjoy ' this movie for what it is , due to its unique footage but don't expect to learn much or to be blown away by any of the movie its images .
An action movie that desperately tries to be more .	" Swordfish " certainly ain't no bad movie but the way they tried to give this movie many layers and deeper meanings and tried to explain the motives of the main ' villain ' is totally pointless and makes this movie drift away from what it should had been ; Some mindless action-fun . A movie like this should need no mind work . Definitely nothing wrong with the talent involved in this movie . Dominic Sena isn't a bad action director and the movie has a wonderful visual style , also thanks to cinematographer Paul Cameron , who has a great style . If you have seen " Man on Fire " and " Collateral " you know what I mean . Also nothing wrong with the cast here ; John Travolta , Hugh Jackman and Halle Berry together in one movie , is the dream for every filmmaker . Then were did it go wrong ? Well , it went wrong with the script . It tries to give the movie so many more layers and deeper meanings that it distracts from the action and make this movie even a slow one at times . Yes , luckily the movie still has some good action sequences and hey it has got John Travolta as the bad guy who is always at his best in roles like these but it all ain't enough to make this movie just slightly above average . Also the whole hacking concept is original but also kind of ridicules , this is probably due to the graphic effects of all those computer programs . They literally tried to show graphically by computer images on the screen how an hacker works . This of course is not how it works in real-life and takes away some of the credibility of the movie that obviously tried to create a realistic atmosphere . Yes it certainly is a watchable movie but it's not really a very entertaining one .
The rubber-suit strikes back .	Watch out ! The Gill-man is back ! " Creature from the Black Lagoon " already was a very average monster-movie . It was an irresistible movie in a way because of its typical ' 50's monster movie clumsiness and obvious fake sets and costumes but by no means a classic in my opinion , unlike lots of others seem to feel about it . There really isn't an awful lot happening in the movie . Mostly the movie is about the Gill-man sitting and swimming in circles in a aquarium . It's mostly laughable when the Gill-man attacks , because he looks and acts so totally clumsy when he does so . Also when he's on land , he doesn't look or acts that dangerously . In the end the movie turns too much into a rehash of the first movie . Just like in the original was the case , the movie its most exciting moments are set underwater . The underwater shots are truly beautiful and are still among the best to feature in any movie . The story is at all times kept very simple , like you would expect from a B-monster movie . Same goes for the dialog and acting , that is painfully hilarious at times . The movie is filled with some hilarious pieces of dialog that will make you chuckle for sure , such as when Helen gets interviewed for the radio and also pay attention to what the park-announcer all has to say when the Gill-man has escaped from his aquarium . The movie is mostly memorable for one thing ; it features Clint Eastwood in his first ever movie role , in a role that's about just as big as in the other Jack Arnold B-monster movie " Tarantula " . It's also sort of fun to see Captain Lucas from the first movie return in this one , even though his role is very limited . Not really any better or worse than the original , though perhaps a bit sillier . B-monster movie lovers will still get a blast out of it though .
Fairly dull western that fortunately gets better toward the end .	This really isn't the most exciting or original western ever made . It's a fair enough attempt and the frame work for many other later ' 50's westerns is already slightly present in this movie . Real problem with the movie is its story , though its concept definitely sounds intriguing and strong on paper , it just doesn't ever become so in the movie . The drama is almost soap-like , with uninteresting affairs and other personal drama's . It's a muddled mess , that above all is uninteresting to watch . Luckily toward the end the movie and its story gets better , when the more soap-like drama makes place for better developed and layered drama . The movie gets more solid and it doesn't allow any of the earlier weaker drama to distract from it . It makes this movie still a decent one to watch , though it's not one that I would wholeheartedly recommend to anyone . Despite the simple drama , characters and dialog , Burt Lancaster still shines in this movie . He gives away a great performance and also plays a likable main character . Good to see that he also did westerns in his career . The genre fits him well . None of the other characters or actors are really good enough to leave a lasting impression . It takes awhile for the movie to take pace and from the beginning on it isn't clear were the movie is trying to head to . It takes too long for the movie to take form , which makes the movie drag at points and also make it rather dull , to be frank . Not even some good old fashioned fight sequences can change anything about this . The settings on the other hand look fine and the nature suits the movie and its atmosphere . The cattle driving sequences are without doubt the best parts of the movie . Not bad enough to consider it unwatchable but not really good enough to consider it a recommendable movie either .
Doesn't quite work out but still a perfectly watchable thriller .	This is a movie that tries hard but it doesn't quite takes the cake . The movie tries to put in many different successful thriller elements but the movie is nothing more than a mixture of styles that weakens the movie as a whole - and with a flawed and simple story in it . The movie is quite short and this is definitely notable in its script . The concept is quite great and it showed some good potential but the story is at all times kept rather simple and short and the movie its story mainly falls from one coincidence into the other , which really doesn't make this the most credible movie to watch . It's just too much of a series of unlikely events , even for thriller standards . Things just don't add up and the weak climax , that is more ridicules and lame than clever or credible , also doesn't help much . The movie its story gets poorly developed , which also makes the movie lack in some good tension or mystery . Yet the movie is a fairly well known movie in its genre , which seems odd , since it's definitely no text book example of a good thriller , even though all of the formulaic ingredients are present . It probably has to do with the fact that the movie has a good and well known cast . Dennis Quaid and Meg Ryan are the main leads of the movie and like always they are great together . They also used to be a real-life couple for years , till Russell Crowe broke up their marriage in 2000 . However problem in the movie is that they're just an unlikely couple to team up . It just seems odd to me that a college professor would team up with one of his students , in the final hours of his life , to solve his own murder . But this is probably also the direct result of its poor story development that falls flat in the end and in which nothing quite adds up . On a positive note , Daniel Stern was good in a serious role . The movie tries to be noir , or at least an homage to film-noir , by using black & white images and certain camera-positioning ( strangly only at the beginning and ending of the movie and not the movie entirely . ) but also with its ' mysterious ' story and characters . After all , the movie is also a remake of a real classic film-noir from 1950 , by the same title . The end result however doesn't deserve to touch the genre with a 10 feet pole . It becomes nowhere close of being in the same league . This is due to the poorly developed and just weak story but also because it tries to bring in several ' 80's movie-making elements , which just doesn't work out . Oh and mixing film-noir style with ' 80's musical is always a bad idea ! It should be a rule ; if you pay homage to film-noir , don't ever put ' modern ' music under it . Further more also the typical ' 80's action editing works really lame and makes the action sequences look even cheaper and clumsier than they in fact really were . Also the black & white images don't look right because they don't seem to use proper lighting for it . One of this typical thrillers that is only watchable once .
Good concept , not being told very interestingly .	This was a movie with some great potential , also since its actually based on a ' true story ' but the movie however really doesn't feature the best or most interesting storytelling , which in the end just lets makes the movie seem like some wasted potential . Problem is that the actual concept of the movie is very exciting and quite original but the movie itself just never gets exciting , scary or original enough , with any of its themes and moments . The movie is like basically the same thing over and over again . The movie is constantly repeating itself , which makes the horror of the movie tiresome and ineffective . As a genre movie it's definitely a lacking and disappointing one . The movie also can't seem to make a choice if it wants to be a typical horror movie in which a woman is being haunted by some evil spirit , or if it wants to be a more deeper and more ' serious ' movie , in which the supernatural things are being more explored and explained from a rational viewpoint . Now instead the movie features a bit of both , with as a result that none of these two different themes work out 100 % effectively . The storytelling is all over the place and Sidney J . Furie's directing is definitely lacking . Throughout his career he hasn't really directed one movie that is above average . His best known movies are perhaps " Superman IV : The Quest for Peace " and " Iron Eagle " , " Iron Eagle II " and " Iron Eagle IV " . It says something about his career and the qualities of his movies . The story often makes some jumps and is constantly changing its tone and atmosphere , characters come and go and like I mentioned earlier before ; it's constantly repeating itself . I mean how often is the woman getting raped in this movie ? Geez , we already got it the first time already ! A remake of this movie is currently in development . Needless to say my confidence and hopes for it aren't very high . The acting is also a kind of a mixed bag . Barbara Hershey at some points was got but overall her acting was too much lacking in other parts to consider her a good leading lady . Ron Silver on the other hand was really great in his role . Don't really think it was a good choice to cast David Labiosa as the oldest son , since he's looking about the same age as Barbara Hershey , who is supposed to be his mother . No matter how young she was supposed to was when she got him ! Also really annoying were to two naive younger sisters , who are constantly crying and moaning , without ever seeming to have a clue of what's happening all around them and don't seem to make any attempt to even try to understand . I hate these naive young kids in movies . Oh well , at least it isn't the worst genre movie ever made and it does have its good points but overall it's just not exciting , tense or original enough , despite its fine premise . In all fairness , the movie even at times works out unintentionally comical like , since some of its moments are being handled so poorly and silly . Lacking - and just not that interesting as a genre movie .
Another Newark athlete helps Edison and Co . out .	The athlete shows some great flexibility here ! . . . Seriously what is this guy doing ? It looks ridicules . He is simply flexing his arms and legs in different positions while constantly holding a wand in his both hands . Of course they simply wanted to test as many movements as possible to see what the possibilities were , the do's and don't's and how it all looked on film . Interestinly there is also a dog lying in the corner , presumably also as part of the experiment to see how secondary objects , persons , other things or in this case a dog would look on the corner of the camera field . The dog also looked as if he / she was trying to figure out what this athlete was exactly doing , but he / she mostly didn't bothered with him and simply choose to relax a bit . I sympathize for him / her . For an early Edison Manufacturing Company film it's quite long . It's over 30 seconds long . And all shows that Edison and Co . were all making progress at the point .
The fist teaming up of Laurel & Hardy is a mixed one .	This is the very first movie with Laurel & Hardy as a comical duo , even though the two appear as enemies in this movie instead as friends . So I don't really consider this movie as a Laurel & Hardy picture . The first halve of the movie is the best . Stanley Laurel plays the maim character in the movie and he yet again gets himself into some silly trouble . Ironicaly from the moments Oliver Hardy makes his entrance the movie goes downhill . The movie starts to get incoherent and messy , especially in the final few sequences . Of course this movie is historically still an interesting to watch , since its the first movie in which Laurel & Hardy appear together in sequences . So for fans this still remains a sort of a must-see . Also fans of the early slapstick humor will still find plenty to enjoy in this movie . The movie is certainly better than the most other slapstick movies , made from the same period . For everyone else this movie probably remains a messy , incoherent silent comedy short that isn't really worth watching .
A late swashbuckler that forgot to be entertaining .	It isn't until the end that the movie turns into a spectacular and true swashbuckler . In between there are too many long moments in which basically nothing is happening . Also often the action just seems to drop out of nowhere and the movie features some awkward and forced humor , that perhaps even is a bit embarrassing to watch . But hey , everyone knows that the greatest swashbucklers were not made in the ' 50's . The story is just a great one . It's an absolutely top-class and solidly constructed story . It had lots of potential in it and interesting characters and motivations . The movie however never really fully uses all this potential You can't help when looking at this movie thinking how much better it all could had been , or at least more entertaining , if it just went that one step further . The movie gets obviously restrained by its low budget but that's no excuses in my opinion . The directing is rather bland and imaging-less . Strange though , since Richard Thorpe is obviously a capable director . The love-story feels forced , as if it was simply a needed ingredient . It of course always has been a part of the swashbuckler genre but in this particular case they would had been better off skipping it , since it's simply not believable in the story and there is no chemistry between the two lovers , played by Robert Taylor and Kay Kendall . The end still makes up a lot for the movie , when the main hero and villain are clashing their weapons , while swinging in a bell tower . Great swashbuckling stuff . The movie has some great characters in it but non of them quite work out , since they are being portrayed too formulaic . You know this is the sort of movie in which the villains all wear black and the good guys are all colorful and stuff . A shame , since it again , showed some real good potential . Robert Taylor did a good job , although he really ain't no Errol Flynn . He also was perhaps a little bit too old for his role already . He was 44 at the time and he really looked like it . It's also not hard to see why Kay Kendall nothing really had a sparkling career , though her early dead in 1959 also of course contributed to this . Not a that bad movie but the Sir Walter Scott novel deserved a better treatment .
The murder without a body .	This Columbo movie is quite different , since it doesn't actually feature a body . Yes , there has been a murder committed but halve of the movie spends its time on actually establishing if really a man had been murdered , since there are no traces , except an eye witness who saw the murder from a great distance . Of course we as the viewer already know what has happened , since we got to see it , as always , right at the start of the movie . The movie is not really about the murder but more about the murderer trying to cover his tracks . This is a different approach from other Columbo movies and while its interesting it doesn't work out as good as the usual Columbo movie approach . Because of the approach of this movie , the character of Columbo himself gets also pushed quite much to the back , which is of course a shame and a waste of Peter Falk , who always had been excellent as the character Columbo . But also on top of the , the story of this movie just isn't that good . Nothing bad but everything is a bit too obvious all . The perpetrator makes himself unnecessary a suspect by giving too obvious hints by saying things with double meanings to Lt . Columbo . It's highly unlikely that a respected clever man such as Maj . Gen . Martin J . Hollister would ever do such a thing . Normally a Columbo movie also often distinct itself by featuring a clever ingenious story . None of that is the case within this movie . The movie would perhaps had worked out better if it had some bigger names in it . Normally a Columbo movie often features a well known actor in the role of the murderer but Eddie Albert is not really a well known big established actor , despite the two Oscar nominations he has received in his career that spanned from the ' 30's till the late ' 90's , consisting out of mostly TV work though . The movie has a typical ' 70's style but mostly in its visual look . The ' 70's look of course by todays standards is a completely silly one . Not that it matters much for this movie but I would had preferred as it always had a more distinctive typical ' 70's style , apart from its look . Because of its different approach , slightly below the usual Columbo movie standards but its still a good enough movie to watch .
Plain and simple good fun	This is a rather enjoyable little early British comedy . Amazing to see how actually little British comedy changed over the decades . This movie is in the same trend as for instance the Pink Panther movies ( although obviously less brilliant ) and gives a fun take on the murder-mystery genre . A genre director George Pollock knew really well since he directed many Agatha Christie novel movies , including the four earliest Miss Jane Marple movies , starring Margaret Rutherford . The movie is nothing too fancy and its kept very simple , with its story and characters . It's also obviously fairly low-budget all . But lets face it , the murder-mystery movies from the ' 60's themselves also weren't that much special in terms of originality and re-playability . In that regard this movie is a fitting one , that takes on all the typical genre clichés , without ever really becoming original on itself , though the movie does a good job at keeping it a secret who the killer is , right till the end . The setting of the movie is a comical fun one ; a health clinic but its potential isn't used to the max in this movie . There are too few references reminding us of the fact that this movie is set in a health clinic . I mean were are the mud-baths , the face-masks , cold-water baths , disgusting food , etcetera . I remember a " Dalziel and Pascoe " episode that used this in a far more effective comical way and " Dalziel and Pascoe " isn't even a comedy-series but a serious ' English detective-series . So I felt that it was a bit of a missed opportunity , to make the movie effectively more fun and comical-like . The actors aren't much special but they known how to handle the comedy-genre well . It also provides the movie with some fun comical characters , without overly trying to be funny . Such as Det . Insp . Hook ( Lionel Jeffries ) but also the main character played by Terry-Thomas is a good and fun one , that knows to carry the movie effectively . A good fun movie . I mean , there basically is no way you wont enjoy watching this movie .
Pleasant little movie .	It's a typical light-heavy movie , if you know what I mean . It's a movie that's heavy on its subjects but gets always told in a light and somewhat fun way . Typically British . It makes the movie at all times a pleasant one to watch . The movie has an original way of storytelling , with the use of flashbacks . The flashbacks are however not always told in chronological way , which should had strengthened the story but it just doesn't do this and the leaps in time just get a tad bit overdone . I mean , not every flashback really serves a significant enough purpose , other than making the movie more melodramatic , which in return doesn't make this movie the most believable or realistic one around . The main plot line is good and simple on its own , so it's too bad that the movie feels the need to put in more story lines to make the movie even more dramatic . The movie just didn't needed that . The movie now often feels more like a soap-opera than a honest realistic drama . But all this negativity aside , this is a perfectly watchable movie . The movie is told slowly in a pleasant pace . The dialog and characters are kept as realistic as possible but it's also most definitely due to the fine actors that the characters of the movie work out so well as they did . It's a real character movie . The Michael Caine character is only featured in the flashbacks of the movie but yet due to the way the story is told , he becomes the central character of the movie . Basically he once more plays his " Alfie " role again but who complains about it ? All of the other actors certainly aren't the least in their business . Oscar-winner Helen Mirren shows her versatility as an actress . Bob Hoskins also plays a good humble role and so does Ray Winstone , whose career really took off the last couple of years . The movie is nicely shot with some good looking locations . It's really English all , as is the overall cultural atmosphere of the movie . It works out really pleasant for the movie , even the more depressing locations . Nothing too impressive , just a perfectly fine watchable little movie .
Might very well be the most overdone drama out of cinematic history . Powerful but not always effective .	Although certain good enough and beautiful looking " Legends of the Fall " is a drama that goes totally over-the-top and its story is filled with way too many dramatic elements and story lines to fill an only 2 hour long movie . First of all I can understand how a person could love this movie . All of its sequences are well made , acted out and filmed . The movie is filled with some dramatic powerful moments . But however the movie as a whole is a completely overdone one . Edward Zwick movies always are over-the-top and overdone in its drama but normally this works for the good , like is the case in Zwick movies such as " Glory " and " The Last Samurai " . " Legends of the Fall " however really pushes it . Let's just analyze for a moment what happens in this movie , just for the fun of it . The boys their mother left them , their father is a war veteran , the three of them all fall in love with the same woman , one gets engaged to her and the other marries her while her heart truly lies with the one brother she doesn't marry , the boys go to war , one dies , their father gets a stroke , one brother goes mad and becomes a hunter , the woman commits suicide , Tristan's wife gets killed , they have a fugitive on their land who has an interracial relationship , there also is a crazy Indian who gets discriminated and in the end Tristan manges to get killed by a bear . Oh the drama ! Come on , there is way too much happening and going on in this movie . The movie is only just over 2 hours long but there is enough happening in this movie to fill a 12 part mini-series with . Yet I can't help to still somewhat love this movie . It's mainly because its such a well made one , mainly in terms of its visual style and acting . The movie was nominated for three Oscar's - and won one for a good reason . " Legends of the Fall " is beautifully crafted . The John Toll cinematography is simply amazing and the musical score by James Horner is uplifting and effective . If you watch all the sequences on their own this movie is a perfect one . However when you put all of this sequences together the movie gets a disjointed , overdone and therefor also unlikely and even ridicules one . It's a movie to easily fall in love with but when you really start thinking about it and analyze it , you have to conclude that this movie is totally overdone . The movie tries to take epic proportions at times . A bit too much and too desperate really , for " Legends of the Fall " is a beautifully crafted movie but further more also a empty and distant one because too much is happening in a too short amount of time . I have to admit that the movie and story gets a bit better when it finally starts to concentrate on one character ( the Brad Pitt character ) , rather than the whole Ludlow family . But after a while the movie starts to go downhill again once the drama kicks in again big time . It doesn't help to make the movie a engaging or realistic one to watch . All of the actors do a good job and the cast is impressive . Especially Anthony Hopkins and Julia Ormond give a fine dramatic performance . Whatever went wrong with Julia Ormond's career . Her career began really promising in the ' 90's but whatever movies does she play in now . Brad Pitt also gives a fine performance , from the period when he was still only cast in movies because of his pretty face . Something that ended after his performance in " Se7en " . Other well known actors in this movie are Aidan Quinn and Henry Thomas , who both appear in far too few popular movies these days . Still the fine acting can't help to make the movie convincing enough . They still put some life in the characters but foremost the characters remain pretty shallow and distant , as is the rest of the movie . Strangely enough still a perfectly watchable and good enough film to watch at least once . You'll be mostly still captivated by it but in the end the movie leaves a bad aftertaste . They simply overdid it . Too much good of something is bad in this case .
Atmospheric made but badly told movie .	Odd is perhaps the best word to describe this movie with . Even for an ' 70's horror flick it's quite an unusual movie , that is good looking and all but yet never really gets off the ground , mostly due to its storytelling . Everything in this movie screams that it's not being made by the most experienced and talented people involved . It also obviously doesn't feature the biggest budget . And its also true that the movie isn't made by the most experienced people within the business and it didn't had a very large budget . Director Theodore Gershuny only directed 3 movies throughout his career , of which this was his last . He knows how to give the movie an atmospheric and classy look but nevertheless the movie still feels mostly empty , since we are just never grabbed by its story or tension because it isn't told always very well . All of the actors are also some big B-actors , who obviously have done nothing big or important throughout their career . Their talents simply do not allow that . The movie still features former big horror movie star John Carradine but what's the point of having him in your movie if you're not going to let him talk . As if he was cheaper to get that way ; " OK , I'll star in your movie for $10 . 000 . How about $5000 ? OK but I won't say any lines then . It's a deal ! " . Carradine is best known for his horror roles in the ' 40's , for the Universal studios . He played the famous count Dracula a couple of times at that time and also appeared in one of " The Mummy " sequels . The movie does has its moments , mostly when horror is involved but for most part the movie is too slowly moving . It's also too mysterious . We don't exactly know how all the characters are and what they want , until about halve way through the movie . It also takes too long for the movie to unravel its main plot . Sure , this works out all well for the mystery and atmosphere of the movie but it also kind of makes this movie hard to watch and follow . So overall it really isn't a bad genre movie and certainly it deserves a higher rating than it's currently receiving on here . Perhaps people don't really like it since it's a little bit odd and it isn't really told in a formulaic way . Besides , it's a very cheap looking with no great big talents involved behind and in front of the camera .
Fun movie that unfortunately gets worse toward the end .	This was a good and enjoyable ' silly ' comedy , that is filled with a whole bunch of crazy fun characters . A typical great ' 80's comedy , with also some great ' 80's comedy stars in it . The movie is truly uplifted by its cast . Dan Aykroyd is really great . It's funny but I don't I've ever seen him play the main character before in a comedy . I already always liked him as the sidekick but with this movie he proofs that he can also handle a comedy in which he plays the main character . The movie also further more features Charles Grodin and Walter Matthau , among others . Esepcially Charles Grodin is also great as the stressed out psychiatrist . Walter Matthau seems a bit out of place , since his character doesn't serve a significant enough purpose in the movie , comical-wise . The concept and the story show great comedy potential . An escaped ' menthal ' patient takes the place of a psychiatrist . He and his radio show become an huge success . But of course soon things are starting to go crazy again when people start to see through his scam and the real psychiatrists shows up . It provides the movie with some great silly moments and some real great laughs . The movie made me laugh out loud at times , due to how silly it all became at times . But things start to get really crazy toward the ending of the movie , in a not so positive way . The movie tries to put way too much in the ending , both comically and dramatic / morally . The movie gets very crazy and unbelievable and things get rushed way too hard . Even the characters start to not work out as good anymore . The movie tries too hard but it simply fails . The ending just doesn't feel right and satisfying enough . A shame , otherwise I would had surely rated this movie higher . A movie definitely worth watching for a couple of good laughs but it just isn't the best ' silly ' ' 80's comedy around .
Michael Moore vs . George W . Bush . A very one sided war .	Some more objectivity wouldn't had been a bad thing . This documentary is extremely one sided and is nothing more than an 2 hour Bush-bashing . I'm not a Bush fan , not at all and I dislike his politics and personality but it doesn't seem fair that they only showed one side of this story in this documentary . A documentary should in my opinion be always objective towards its subject , or else it loses its power and credibility . I liked " Bowling for Columbine " very much , so I also expected some great things from this documentary . Although the end result wasn't that bad , it still disappointed me . The documentary does provide some new good insightful information but the documentary was really like Oliver Stone's " JFK " at times , it features lots of conspiracy theories that all don't sound really implausible but at the same time also are quite far fetched . The documentary is not always told in the right way . It tries to put too much information in it and handles a bit too many subjects . The documentary begins with how Bush ' stole the elections ' and ends with the Iraq war . Not everything in the documentary feels really connected . Also ending the documentary with a mother's grief just didn't feel right and it was cheap that Michael Moore used this to proof his point . Michael Moore obviously has something personal against Bush and he is extremely biased with this documentary . I like his style of documentary making but he didn't handled the subject of this documentary very well . I'm still interested in seeing his next projects but at the same time I'm hoping for some more objectivity next time .
That Shaft character is one violent cat !	Let's face it , none of the Shaft movies are exactly masterpieces but the character Shaft surely is a classic , who delivers some classic one-liners . In this Shaft ' adventure ' the creators obviously wanted to manifest Shaft as the African-American answer to the successful James Bond franchise . For most parts they actually succeeded in this . Shaft is even more sexist than James Bond and he surely is more violent . The violence is not always tasteful at times however . The story is told messy at times . The action sequences seem to come out of nowhere and are simply just pointless at times . Also the weak editing doesn't help much . I however wouldn't had mind it having seen more Shaft movies being made . Unfortunately this was the last ( unless you also count the 2000 " Shaft " version ) . The Shaft movies have a certain hip 70's atmosphere , which I like and the main character is reason enough to watch a Shaft movie . Great character , weak storytelling .
Laurel & Hardy needed money ?	It seems pretty odd as to why both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy ever agreed to be in this little propaganda movie , to promote wood and wood by-products , for the use of average everyday products . Thing that this movie taught me the most is that Laurel & Hardy don't look good in color . This movie is from 1943 and Laurel & Hardy were already both well over 50 at the time . Their age normally doesn't really show but it does so in this color movie . They really didn't look well and looked old - and stiff in their movements . They really seemed out of place in this movie but yet the obviously still make the movie an interesting and fun one to watch . It's certainly better than normally ' education ' and war-time propaganda movies . I also can't deny that this movie is educational . This movie surely taught me some things I didn't knew about wood yet . Not that I'm really interested in it of course but it's still sort of fun to know all . Laurel & Hardy's presence definitely added to the educational level of this movie . They show everything in a fun and quick way , although none of it obviously ever gets hilarious or terribly interesting . It's still a sort of good movie that is made interesting and effective by Laurel & Hardy's presence but it's still sort of sad to see them in this . Alreading getting older and long since over their prime . The only reason they seem to be in this is because of the money . Still the movie remains a sort of collectors item , since it's the only theatrical movie from Laurel & Hardy in full color . I have some mixed feelings about this movie . Laurel & Hardy seem terribly out of place but yet at the same time they're the only reason why this movie is still an effective and interesting one . Therefor I rate it a ' safe ' .
More was to be expected from a movie with a premise and cast such as this one .	Roger Donaldson always distinct itself by making mediocre films . Just think of movies like " Cocktail " , " Species " , " Dante's Peak " and the remakes of " No Way Out " and " The Getaway " . Now most of this movies showed some great potential but yet somehow Donaldson manages to not let this movie pass the mark of average . I really liked his movie " Thirteen Days " though , which was just great but this mostly was due to its compelling historic tense story . Even that movie shows great flaws in the directing . Even though he doesn't make that great movies he still makes well known wells , which also really is an accomplishment , I must admit . I'm afraid that this movie is also a typical example of a Roger Donaldson movie . The concept of the movie sounds just great and shows more than enough potential to create a tense and original thriller with , with perhaps even noir elements in it . And also just look at the cast , how could you go wrong with this ? The movie is still a decent one but it leaves lots of potential unused . The movie is not really ever tense or mysterious , mostly because of the reason that the story always stays way too vague and overcomplicated with twists that don't always seem to make credible sense . In the end you just simply stop caring about the story and its characters . It's an amazing cast if you look at it . It features stars such as Willem Dafoe , Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio , Mickey Rourke , M . Emmet Walsh , Miguel Sandoval , James Rebhorn and also actors who weren't big stars yet at the time such as Samuel L . Jackson and Maura Tierney . The actors all do their very best but at times they're obviously struggling with the confusing script and formulaic dialog . See it or don't . It's not a bad movie but it ain't a recommendable one either .
Late Fritz Lang movie doesn't know to impress - or even entertains .	Of course Fritz Lang was one of the greatest directors in the ' 20's and ' 30's , with movie classics such as " Metropolis " , " M " and " Dr . Mabuse , der Spieler - Ein Bild der Zeit " but the movies he made later in his career , from let's say the ' 40's on are hardly on par with his work from his glory days . You see a lot of directors that were great and brilliant in the earliest days of cinema ( ' 10's / ' 20's / ' 30's ) take a deep nose dive with their later movies . So far the only director that I know of that has remained consistent throughout the decades , from the ' 10's till the ' 50's has been King Vidor . Seems like Fritz Lang was stuck somewhere in the ' 20's or ' 30's with his directing . The directing and compositions for this movie are very old fashioned , which makes the movie now days feel quite outdated . It's quite static all but perhaps this was also due to the obviously restrained and limited budget of the movie . Still good to see that the sort of signature dark , uneasy atmosphere by Fritz Lang also is present in this movie . However you can wonder if this type of atmosphere is really suited for a movie like this . At times I even expected the movie to turn into an horror movie , which was purely due to its atmosphere ! Lets face it , the swashbuckling genre was quite death and dried up already in the ' 50's . There were some attempts to revive the genre at that particular decade but all failed . This movie is no exception , although you can debate about it if this truly is a swashbuckler . It just lacks the much required action , even though by the ending the movie finally starts to take pace and takes some adventurous forms but by that time it's already quite to late to still make this movie an highly entertaining or exciting one . There just isn't enough happening in the movie ! The movie could had gone into some interesting directions ( such as with the ' Redbeard'-plotline ) but it just doesn't ever does so . It's always risqué to tell a story almost completely from the view point of a child . It's an approach that rarely ever works out in a movie . Frtiz Lang , perhaps over confident with the success by him from the past , makes an attempt to pull it off with this movie . At first the movie still concentrates on the child but soon he makes room for the Stewart Granger character , who also soon but slowly starts to turn in the true main character of the movie . Good move , since this movie is too dark and fun enough to watch for children and adults won't find it interesting to watch a movie such as this one completely from the view point of a naive young boy . The movie features some good and fairly well known actors in it but they fail to give the movie a real heart and make the characters come to life , at least not to a point that they're interesting , entertaining or good enough to care about . It doesn't help that the main character played by George Sanders is character that starts off as a bad guy and just nothing becomes really a good guy throughout the movie . He always remains a sort of a betraying and heartless scoundrel . You just never really start to care about him . Perhaps the only thing that surprised and impressed in this movie was the musical score by Miklós Rózsa . It was really beautiful and perfectly adventurous . The sort of score that really suits the swashbuckling genre . The score only deserved a better movie ! It's a soundtrack worth searching out ! In the end its a fairly enjoyable movie , that's however too old fashioned and not exciting enough to consider this a real good - or true adventurous movie .
Decent Bond	Of all the Bonds that has been made , this one is far from my favorite . But that doesn't mean it's a bad movie . Still I must admit that this Bond has some excellent villains although general Orlov ( Steven Berkoff ) is highly underused . Still , Kamal ( Louis Jourdan ) alone is an entertaining villain . I also like the bond sidekick Vijay ( Vijay Amritraj ) . The Bond girls on the other hand aren't the best of all time . The story however isn't the best . Maybe because it's a bit too complicated for a Bond movie ? The movie also lacks memorable scene's that almost all the other Bond movies have . The story is even silly at points , yes , even for a Bond movie . Still the movie has a high entertainment level thanks to Roger Moore who portrays Bond perfectly with his typical humor .
James Bond tries too cash-in quickly , after the sudden success of Star Wars .	It's no secret that this movie was made only because to the sudden and unexpected huge success of the science-fiction movie " Star Wars : Episode IV - A New Hope " , that changed the genre for ever . " Moonraker " wasn't planned as the ' next ' Bond movie . In the late ' 70's the Bond movie and character started to get outdated . In an effort to make the Bond-series popular and more fitting and ' hip ' for its time and foremost to also cash-in quickly of course , " Moonraker " was created . The end result is a mixed bag of memorable Bond moments , set in a incoherent story consisting out of unlikely moments and disjointed sequences . By no means " Moonraker " is an horrible movie . It still entertains and provides some good and typical Bond moments which we basically all grew up with watching and love so much . It might very well be so that this is the Bond movie with the most memorable sequences in it . The opening sequence is also definitely one of the most memorable Bond ones . However as a whole the movie just isn't quite good enough and falls short . This movie definitely isn't the most consisting one out of the Bond series , mostly because of the reason that the sequences don't always connect with each other . Its basically the one well made sequence after the other , without always making an obvious connection . The premise of the movie sounds good but the story gets more and more ridicules and above all improbable , even for a Bond movie , as the movie progresses . Especially from the moment on when Bond enters space the movie and its story starts to go downhill rapidly . The movie gets highly unconvincing from that moment on , although it definitely still has some good moments after that point . I don't know , I guess its just the fact that the Bond character doesn't work in space that causes the movie to get unlikely and not convincing enough . But like I mentioned before , the movie is still entertaining enough . Show me a Roger Moore Bond movie that isn't entertaining . . . Roger Moore is my favorite Bond because of the fact that his movies are the most entertaining ones ( although they also are far from the best Bond movies ) to watch over and over again , which is definitely mainly thanks to Moore's more comical and less serious approach of the Bond character . He had fun playing the character and that must have inspired the rest of the cast and crew because it really shows on screen . The movie itself really does have some great and entertaining moments as well . Most of the action is really good , until the end , when the special effects kick in . It's good enough for 1979 standards , especially when considering the resources the creators at the time had to their disposal but nevertheless it still means that it just isn't convincing enough all . It all adds up to the reasons why at the end this movie falls flat . Don't get me wrong its still good and entertaining enough to watch , after all I think I must have seen this movie a dozen times already but the movie and its story just isn't of very high quality , especially when compared to the other Roger Moore Bond movies . But the movie still also does have more than enough good points to consider this a above average entertaining-flick . The fact that the usual Bond regulars show up again is definitely an huge plus . Bernard Lee makes his last appearance as M and Geoffrey Keen reprises his role of Sir Frederick Gray for the second time . Their roles are probably a bit bigger than they normally are in a Bond movie . Also of course Desmond Llewelyn and Lois Maxwell are also present again , as well as Walter Gotell as General Anatol Gogol . But the biggest plus of the cast is Richard Kiel who reprises his role of the hit-man Jaws , with his metal teeth , after " The Spy Who Loved Me " . He provides the movie with some of its very best moments . Unfortunately it always was the last Bond movie he ever appeared in . Also the production design and always reliable good John Barry musical score are a big plus . The John Barry scores always provide the Bond movies with a certain extra . There also is little wrong with the important Bond element ; the villain . Michael Lonsdale plays an excellent and memorable villain . Perhaps the very best and most memorable of all Bond villains , I kid you not . He and his character deserved to be in a better Bond movie . That way his character would have been an even better and also more memorable and appreciated Bond villain . I just have a weak for Michael Lonsdale , he is a very underrated but above all very underused actor . It has more than enough good elements and sequences to please the fans and the more casual viewer . It's just too bad of the disjointed and improbable story , which causes this movie to be one of the more incoherent and lesser Bond movie .
Well made but it lacks a certain depth .	I still don't know what to really think of this movie . On the one side it's a really made movie , that got well directed and features some fine performances from its actors . But on the other hand it just isn't the most interesting movie ever made because it lacked a certain depth for me . For instance this movie doesn't really explain the things why Stephen Glass did the things he did . We just never get to know what makes him tick and therefore this movie as a character study and character movie ( which this movie obviously is ) just isn't effective enough . The movie is perhaps a bit too self aware and ambitious . The movie feels to self righteous at times . It was like the movie had a story and they knew in advance how they wanted the movie to end but somewhat forgot to build up effectively to it and the way the story progresses instead feels very obligatory and also predictable . Basically when you're being objective you'll also notice that the first and the last halve of the movie don't really connect that well and feel quite different from each other . As a matter of fact , halve way through the movie I actually wondered to myself what the point of the first halve of the movie exactly was for the story , since the story really started to take off halve way through . But no it's not a horrible movie or one that I hated watching , it got too well made for that . Billy Ray is a director with potential but he's more a person who gives more priority to his writing . He wrote a couple of screenplays for some big and successful Hollywood production . He's currently working on the screenplay for the " Westworld " remake . But what also made this movie such a fine watch was its acting . The foremost reason why this movie didn't became a real box-office success or the reason why this movie isn't really that well known is because Hayden Christensen is playing the main lead . He got criticized a lot for his acting in the new Star Wars movies and he made this movie between " Star Wars : Episode II - Attack of the Clones " and " Star Wars : Episode III - Revenge of the Sith " . Therefor most people just weren't interest in this movie but in all fairness he is perfectly cast in this movie and plays his role really well . He plays a reporter who is lying to his teeth during the entire movie and he does this very convincing . In the sequences you can tell when he is lying but at the same time you can also somewhat understand why his colleagues still simply believe him and take for granted what he is saying . A great accomplishment from Christensen . But who also deserves credit is Peter Sarsgaard , who perhaps plays the best role out of the movie . Other fine actors such as Chloë Sevigny , Rosario Dawson and Hank Azaria also appear in this movie but I don't know , I just don't feel that there parts are important enough within the movie to really leave an impression . It's a fine enough watchable little movie but I just wasn't really taken by it .
Perhaps Garbo's finest performance .	Basically Garbo is still the only reason why I still like this very heavy handed melodramatic movie . " Camille " is a movie about the all old themes love and death . The one moment it's happy and the world is a wonderful place , while the other life is depression is it ever could become . It's an movie with constantly changing dramatic moods and tones in the movie , which just becomes a bit too much for me after a while . I can handle and appreciate heavy dramas but when it's being overly melodramatic it becomes more of an annoyance to me , also since it starts making more and more a staged impression . It's a fine looking movie with its sets and costumes and George Cukor of course is more than a capable director . So basically it's a very well made movie but it's story and the way it progressed made me not really like this movie . I guess it's a good story on its own right though , also since there are a total of 47 movie versions based on the novel and play " La dame aux camélias " by Alexandre Dumas fils , which is more than any other novel I have ever heard of . It might very well be true that this movie features Greta Garbo's finest performance . It was also her personal personal favorite one . She plays her role with both class and emotion and above all keeps her role real and humane . The best and most powerful and classic moments of the movie all feature her . Her acting still makes this movie worthwhile and an interestingly watchable one . Watch it for Garbo .
Flint's first adventure .	It's quite obvious that the whole Austin Powers franchise got based on the Flint movie . It even references to it itself . Both franchises are certainly also comparable in its style and comedy but of course with a difference that this movie is not just set in the ' 60's but it actually got made during the ' 60's . Just like the Austin Powers movies this movie also makes fun of the James Bond franchise , which had only started years prior to this movie . The movie features some crazy silly gadgets and random action sequences , that are quite good looking considering this movie is from 1965 . An era when there wasn't really such a thing as the ' action ' genre , at least not in the way we know it today . The movie has a typical ' 60's atmosphere , with its sets and costumes and is good looking . The movie stars some actors you normally wouldn't expect to see in a comedy such as this one ; most notably of course James Coburn and Lee J . Cobb . Their more serious acting style isn't of course really consistent with normal comedy acting ( well , it's not exactly like their playing their roles with a straight face though ) but this makes it work all the more funny within this movie . After all , some of the best comedy roles are often being played by ' serious ' actors . It's a fun movie to watch and certainly a great time-killer but the movie by no means is a classic . Also as far as Jamed Bond spoofs are concerned , this movie isn't really among the best . One of the problems I had with this movie was its story . It's a real simple comedy story , that never succeeds in becoming truly engaging . It's quite formulaic and predictable all . Nevertheless its whole global warming plot line seemed to be ahead of its time , although global warming in this movie is being used as a terrorist threat , when some scientist succeed at controlling the weather . I must say I liked the sequel " In Like Flint " better .
Sort of wasted potential but still entertaining enough .	The movie has a good comical premise ; A well educated but without any life-experience adult , who has lived all is life in fallout shelter , goes out , into the big world for the first time in 35 years . Having grown up in a ' 60's environment , he of course also runs into some big differences in language and morals . It's a real good comical premise to create a fun movie with . For most part " Blast from the Past " is also a fun movie but not halve as good and entertaining as it could had been if it had used a different approach . The movie begins as a comedy almost entirely set in the inside of a fallout shelter , that looks almost exactly like a real house and also has its own supermarket and fishing-pool . The main characters of the movie are being played by Christopher Walken and Sissy Spacek . However the second halve of the movie entirely focuses on the ' son ' , played by Brendan Fraser , in the big wide world , with Alicia Silverstone as his love interest . It makes the movie so that it can be divided into two separate parts . It does make the movie disjointed and also not the best to watch comedy around . The movie its premise does offer the movie plenty of comical opportunities . At first it handles this well and it provide the movie with some of its best and most fun moments , when the Brendan Fraser sees the ' world ' and everything that is in it for the first time . Yet later on the movie lays its emphasis entirely on the love-story , which does makes this movie nothing more than just another typical and also predictable genre movie . A waste of the good comical potential this movie its premise offered . The acting is still top-class . Brendan Fraser is actually a real great comical actor that can make his character likable as well as believable , without ever going too over-the-top with it . But yes , it's definitely true that the best roles of the movie are being played by Christopher Walken and Sissy Spacek . They are great actors and play their characters subtly hilarious . The movie is filled with some good written comical characters and some good lines to let the fine actors deliver . It's a movie with a couple of hilarious moments and also some great lines but its romantic-comedy approach doesn't really make this movie as original and hilarious as it could had been .
Wasted potential .	Not that the movie is very bad but it's just that the movie , with its atmosphere and premise , had so much more potential than the eventual end result . The movie suffers from numerous things . One is the build up and story flow . In all honesty this movie has an incredible bad build , which ruins the tension and mystery of the movie . Things happen in the movie too fast , without a proper build up . This way we never really get involved - and feel with any of the characters . It's a distant movie with distant characters and because of that neither the tension or mystery of the movie works out to the maximum . Non of the characters seems to be truly scared or surprised will all the unusual and scary things going on in the movie . It also sort of makes the movie ridicules to watch at moments . This movie had all the potential in it to become a tense atmosphere horror movie . After all , The Silent Hill games are probably the most atmospheric , tense , mysterious and scary games around at the moment . But as a die hard horror fan I can assure you ; this movie is not an horror . The movie really doesn't have any scares in it and although there is some gore , there is very little else to enjoy for the horror . So perhaps it's possible that a non-horror fan will like this picture more than I in the end did . The only thing horror about this movie is its atmosphere . Yes , the movie is great looking and because of that has a great visual look and atmosphere over it but the not so great story , characters , dialog and acting make sure that this movie never becomes tense or scary despite its fantastic atmosphere . But yes , the movie is definitely still watchable , mainly because of the reason I just mentioned ; the visual look . The movie uses some great camera positions ( copied directly from the game I presume ) , good looking sets , make-up and visual effects . The movie also has some great highly imaginative sequences , that perhaps can also be described as art . You could say that this movie is a case of style over substance . The story begins simple but as the plot thickens the movie becomes more and more difficult to follow . We're introduced to a totally new world and environment but the movie doesn't give us the time to adapt and get used to this strange ' alternative ' world . The story also tends to make the movie unnecessary hard and difficult to follow , especially toward the ending , that even comes over as strange and not in every way completely understandable . No wonder , since the story is written by Roger Avary . The man behind the early Quentin Tarantino movies " Reservoir Dogs " and " Pulp Fiction " . He always tends to write stories with several layers , multiple story lines and other complex writing techniques but in this case it's not for the best of it . The movie suffers from its ' over-done-written ' script . A simple understandable for everyone script would had sufficed for a genre movie like this one . Sorry to say but Radha Mitchell will not grow into becoming a big movie star . This goes for about all of the actors in the movie . Sean Bean also somehow got involved in this movie but to be frank , I don't know why he ever agreed to appear in this movie . He feels out of place and on top of that he also gets very little interesting to do . The only interesting actress in this movie seems to be Alice Krige but her character is unfortunately introduced too late in to the story . Non of the characters are really handled well in the movie and the dialog also isn't always the best , or most realistic thinkable , so that also isn't exactly helping them . The movie is still good enough to consider it a watchable one but considering the potential this movie in its core had ; a disappointing movie , especially from the viewpoint of an horror-genre fan .
The theme song is more memorable and legendary than the movie itself .	This is a fairly amusing comedy that has some good strong female characters in it and also makes a good social statement . However as a comedy it falls flat at times , since it heavily relies on just the three main characters , played by Lily Tomlin , Dolly Parton and Jane Fonda . The movie begins good and sort of satirical , about the male domination at the office . The boss of the office floor is portrayed as a ' sexist , egotistical , lying , hypocritical bigot ' . It's of course overdone but the movie makes a good statement . Therefor the movie works well as a social satire about the male supremacy - and the office work in general . The women are portrayed as strong individual personalities . However as the movie progresses the story becomes more and more silly and unlikely . The movie therefor then looses some of its power . The three main characters are good and strong , mainly because they are being played by excellent actresses , that seem to know how to handle the comedy genre . The movie however very much relies on this three main characters with as a result that the movie looses its focus on the story at times . The story at times becomes muddled in and the filmmakers seemed to prefer to show the three women their antics instead . Some of the moments are funny but at the same time also far fetched , which makes this movie a rather simple comedy . Sure , it's good fun to watch but it also makes this movie quite a forgettable one . It's just not a movie that I want to re-watch again , any time soon . Even though this is an 1980 movie , it still has a typical ' 70's feeling all over it , which means that it's also quite outdated to watch this days . Even though the male supremacy in the business life is still a relevant and much alive subject of course , even now , more than 25 years later . Amusing relevant comedy but it doesn't leave a lasting impression , due to its flawed focus and storytelling .
Their purple moment isn't their greatest moment .	This is a comedy that lacks some good laughs . Even though the movie still is good and enjoyable entertainment of course , I don't think I laughed even once . This is probably due to the fact that the movie doesn't have any slapstick moments in it and instead relies on just one comical situations the boys has got themselves into . The main plot line is pretty funny but it's a bit tiresome to base the entire movie around this one plot line . It's well acted out and constructed but it basically is too much of the same the whole time . The settings are pretty enjoyable . It gives us a good view into the late ' 20's night life . A life which we normally only know from movies who tried to recreate the atmosphere and settings from that period . But this movie is the real stuff and therefor it's still a pretty interesting watch . The atmosphere and settings are probably the only reason why this movie is still good to watch present day . There are some good comical constructed moments in the movie but it's all not enough to make this movie a grand and excelling Laurel & Hardy silent short .
Whoa !	This rock-opera is a cult camp-classic alright . It's über-weird and is filled with some fantastic visuals . No , this most certainly ain't a movie for just everyone but when you are a fan of these sort of movie's you'll absolutely adore this one as well . The movie has no dialog and is completely sung , which in my opinion makes it weird that Ann-Margret got an Oscar nomination and won a Golden Globe for her role in this movie . I don't know I just have something against actors receiving Oscar nominations or winning any other big movie award for playing a role in a musical movie . Musical acting and ' normal ' movie acting are two totally different things that are totally on different levels and require a totally different approach . Don't get me wrong , I'm not saying that Ann-Margret was not good in this movie but receiving big movie awards and nominations for a musical role was just totally out of place . Person I enjoyed most in this movie was Oliver Reed . He seemed to be the only one who didn't took his role completely serious and he plays his part with lots of fun and joy . Also it was fantastic to see Jack Nicholson in a fairly big cameo appearance . The rest of the movie is filled with appearances of famous artists such as Tina Turner , Eric Clapton , Elton John and of course members of ' The Who ' . I admit that I'm not the biggest musical fan around but I can appreciate the way this movie is made , both visually as well as musically . The movie is pretty weird and features lots of symbolism , that forms in a way a satire on religion . The movie is not as accessible as for instance the other well known rock-opera and in my opinion far superior " Jesus Christ Superstar " from 1973 . Because this movie is not really accessible to everyone I find it hard whether or not to recommend this movie . Even though I thought the movie was just plain weird at times and I'm not the biggest fan of the music in the movie , I was still entertained by it and somehow also enjoyed watching it . So perhaps everyone should give this movie at least once a chance .
Typical but fun and good all .	These ' 3-in-1 ' type of horror movies were quite popular in the ' 70's . Even though they are never truly brilliant movies ( the stories told within it are simply too short for that ) but they are always enjoyable to watch . This movie is also like that . Movies like this don't get made now days because now days they are replaced by horror / thriller television series . At least that's how I see it . It has 3 totally different stories , with different characters and set at different places . What they all have in common though is that they all star Karen Black as the main character , in one case in even more than one role . She is fine actress for the genre and this movie . She is a bit of a cult-actress , also due to her looks . She plays all the characters totally differently in this movie , which shows her wide range of skills as an actress , even though she isn't the most talented one within the business . Credit for that also needs to go to the make-up department , who for every story totally changed Karen Black her looks . The stories are not all classic horror ones in the most common sense of the word . Perhaps psychological thriller would be a better way to describe the movie its first 2 stories . Ironicaly the third story , that is an horror one , is also the best - or at least most memorable one of the movie . Despite of their short running time , the 3 stories also aren't among the fastest paced ones . It takes its time to build up things and this case that works out quite well for the stories . None of the stories are really something remarkable but what they all have in common are some good ' suprise ' endings , even though in some cases you should be able to see the endings coming from miles away . You could tell that director Dan Curtis had a real love for the genre . His approach is typical for the genre , especially during the ' 70's . Unfortunately as a director he was mostly stuck with television movies , such as this one was as well . 21 years later he also made a sequel to this movie , called brilliantly " Trilogy of Terror II " . Just like this movie , it got made for television . Because it's a television movie you also shouldn't expect any blood or gore . All of the stories are quite ' clean ' and the horror and tension mostly comes from the stories themselves and its atmosphere . Recommendable , especially of course for the fans of the genre .
Batman re-imagined .	It's interesting to see a whole new different take on the Batman franchise . All of the previous Batman movies are ignored and this movie completely re-imaginings the story and the character of Bruce Wayne / Batman . I'm sure that the fans will like this new different approach towards the franchise . The character of Bruce Wayne / Batman is even darker and more sinister than in any of the previous movies . This is also the first time that the character of Bruce Wayne is much more interesting than that of Batman himself . It explores what it is that drives Bruce Wayne to fight crime in his batsuit . The movie unfortunately tries to cover a bit too much of his story . The story covers too much and a lot is happening in this movie . The movie tells how Bruce lost his parent , how he was trained , how he returned to Gotham and reclaimed all his property and in the mean time he fights many criminals such as Carmine Falcone , the Scarecrow and in the end another villain but who that is , I'm not going to spoil for you . It simply is all too much to just tell in one movie . There isn't one main villain which makes this movie a bit too hard to understand at times . I'm sure this is all that the fans wanted but from a storytelling point of view the movie is flawed . Because it covers so much , not everything always flows well or feels connected to each other . The story lacked a main plot line and only towards the ending the movie gets a more steady and clear story-line . There also are too many characters introduced in to movie . The movie could had also used some more humor . The movie takes itself too serious most of the time . There is some humor in the movie but that humor feels rather forced and childish / lame . There are two different kinds of darkness in movies ; atmospheric dark , like in the ' 89 version was the case and just normal dark , which in this movie is present . I prefer the atmospheric dark personally . I think they took ' dark knight ' perhaps a little bit too literally . The movie was simply too plain dark at times , without doing much good to the atmosphere . Strangely enough Gotham City itself wasn't dark enough looking . The Gothic Tim Burton look that made Gotham City such a memorable and imaginatively place is surely missed in this movie . The movie is superbly and impressively cast . Christian Bale is good as Bruce Wayne but not always as Batman . Michael Caine is a great Alfred . There was much hate towards Katie Holmes towards her role but that had more to do with her strange Tom Cruise affair than her acting abilities . I thought she did great in this movie and she portrayed a strong but sensitive female character . Other wonderful actors in the movie are Liam Neeson , Gary Oldman , Tom Wilkinson , Morgan Freeman and Ken Watanabe . Cillian Murphy truly surprised and impressed me in his villainous role . Like many others I thought , before seeing this movie , that he wasn't the right actor for a role like this one but he simply was more than great in his role . Another great surprise was Rutger Hauer . I already knew he was a great actor and it was wonderful to see him in a big production again . He plays a kind of character that suits him perfectly , a hard businessman , that also can be seen as a small villain part . There is some good action in the movie and some great fights but nothing really memorable though . I'm sure it was all very impressive to see this on the big screen but at home it all just doesn't look that impressive . I'm beginning to sound awfully negative about this movie but that's just because I simply didn't enjoyed this movie as much as everyone else seemed to had done . I feel that the movie is seriously flawed at times , mainly with its story but still I rate this movie a which by no means is a weak rating of course . It means that I still enjoyed most parts of the movie and am still anxious to see this new Batman franchise continued in the near future .
The movie that launched Jim Carrey into orbit .	This is one crazy comedy that is totally being carried by Jim Carrey's performance . Sort of the problem with comedies though is its simple written story . It's as if the best writers don't want to touch the comedy genre with an 10-feet pole and they are above the genre , which is sort of understandable since comedies simply never have been amongst the most appreciated or high class movies . But than again on the other hand comedies also shouldn't ever be too complicated , or else they wouldn't be really comedies . But at least you should always trow in some originality . Basically the only thing that makes this movie truly original is Jim Carrey . You can say that this is really the movie that launched Carrey's comedy career . Shortly after this he got parts in movies such as " Dumb & Dumber " , " The Mask " and " The Truman Show " . It's as if director these days keep him more on a short leach but in this early movie from him there is no holding back and he goes totally over-the-top with his Ace Ventura character . This is perhaps also the very same reason why Ace Ventura has grown out into a well known comical character . It's really Carrey that makes this movie and its humor work out so well , since lets face it ; the movie its script really doesn't provide the movie with that much comical material to work with . I really can't imaging how this movie would had been without Jim Carrey in it . The movie further more also has a good supporting cast with fine actors such as Courteney Cox , Sean Young , Udo Kier , Troy Evans , John Capodice and more . No it's not its directing or overall style that makes this really a special comedy to watch . It has a very typical style in directing , character treatment , it's music and other little things such as this . The ' 90's just wasn't the best decade for movies in terms of style and its way of film-making . You didn't really realized it at the time but looking back at it now , the ' 90's is perhaps the decade of movies with the least distinctive - and stylish style . Luckily Jim Carrey's presence compensates for basically everything . He makes the movie a real worthwhile one , although the eventual movie still is just not as classic as its main character is .
Good movie but weak in its most crucial moments .	This is definitely a very professionally made movie with also some great acting but the movie falls short with its most crucial and emotional moments and also ends on a very false note . It's also made fairly obviously throughout this movie that it had a fairly low budget . Some of the special effects are simply below par by todays standards and the plane crash itself is also done quite laughable to be honest , clearly because they didn't had the right resources and money to do it any better . Bet most of the money went into the fact that his movie was shot in location in Thailand . Accordingly , the movie had a $10 , 000 , 000 budget , so no wonder the movie looked the way it did . But I have to admit that the movie is definitely better looking then its budget might indicate . Werner Herzog shows he's a capable director , who can work around things . The story on its own is quite good and intriguing , also not in the least because its based on a true story , though the movie obviously takes lots of liberties with it . The movie has some good and effective psychological elements such as the question to escape or not to escape . The movie does a good job at getting you in the minds of the prisoners and be able to understand each of their motivations . But as far as POW movies go , the movie doesn't really provide anything new or shocking . The movie touches all fairly familiar grounds and perhaps doesn't do a good enough job creating a tense and dangerous atmosphere of a POW camp . Or perhaps this is also because of the reason that you just KNOW in advance that at least the main character escapes and survives , since this movie got based on his story . The ending should had been way more smaller and personal , to make it also more emotional and therefore powerful and effective . It now instead has a big , totally unbelievable and overblown typical Hollywood ending . I don't know what it is with German directors but their are often more patriotic and overblown when it comes down to Hollywood and American elements , then most American directors . For example also see Roland Emmerich , who made movies such as " Independence Day " and " The Patriot " . Perhaps its the cast , next to its professional directing , that make the movie still work out as a good one . Christian Bale is great as always ( when will he get his Oscar ? ) , in a role for which he once more lost a significant amount of weight . Same goes for the other actors portraying the prisoners , such as Steve Zahn and Jeremy Davies . Also especially is really great in his role . He has a great , distinctive and very recognizable way of acting . It's a real good movie but really , is it worthy of all that praise and high rating on here ? Really a bit too much credit all .
The one with Fred Astaire dancing on the ceiling .	So , basically everybody around the globe knows - and has seen the famous dancing sequence with Fred Astaire dancing on the walls and ceilings . But how many people actually know that , that sequence is from this movie ? I'm surprised that a movie with such a famous sequence isn't better known . In essence " Royal Wedding " is your typical MGM musical , with still a couple of extra pluses , that makes this movie distinct itself from the average , formulaic movie musical , from the same time period . Obviously the famous sequence with Fred Astaire dancing on the ceiling is one of them but to me it also was the humor . Musicals really aren't best known for the well placed and original humor but this movie does a great job at providing a couple of genuine good and original laughs . The story is kept simple and formulaic and above all also of course very predictable . The movie doesn't offer an awful lot of surprises but yet the story serves its purpose and that fits the genre just right . There are a couple of great and likable characters in this movie , that help to make the movie an extra joy to watch . Fred Astaire of course steals the show with his acting and dancing but also Jane Powell as his sister was great . Not too happy about the casting of Sarah Churchill ( Winston Churchill's daughter ) . No offense but she just isn't beautiful enough ( she has got her daddy's looks , I'm afraid ) for her part and also perhaps a tad too old . It just doesn't fit the genre . The musical numbers are all well executed , mainly those by Fred Astaire . The sequences were however a bit too ' stagey ' for my taste , although I should admit that the musical genre has just never been my favorite movie genre . All in all an enjoyable to watch typical MGM musical , with a couple of more offerings in it than its fellow genre movies .
Certainly not as bad as everyone makes you believe it is but also too long and it tries to tell way too much to consider this a great movie .	Perhaps the most anticipated and talked about movie of 2006 , by both positive and bashing negative parties ( mostly from religious persons ) . Controversy had always surrounded this movie and the book it was based on . It's such a shame that some people just can't separate fact from fiction and just take the movie for what it is ; good intelligent entertainment . Judging by its style and directing this movie was clearly not made to shock or offend but to purely entertain . And for the unbiased open minded person this is surely an entertaining movie to watch . It was not as slow or boring is I had heard and expected . The movie is definitely fast paced and features lots of thrilling moments . The movie its story had definitely enough potential to make this one of the best movies of 2006 but yet it isn't . The story tries to tell too much and often goes to deep into certain aspects which certainly doesn't help to make this movie the most pleasant or easiest one to watch . The story also takes lot for granted and goes to deep with its theories which isn't always good for the realism of the movie . It overall also makes the movie too long which makes it hard to keep interest for its entire duration . The movie has a good style and quick pace , with some good editing and moody camera-work and a great perfectly suiting Hans Zimmer soundtrack . The directing is also good when for most part but yet you can tell that thriller / mystery just isn't Ron Howard's genre . The movie doesn't always flow well enough . My advice to him would be to just stick to drama's and comedies , were his true talent lies . Guess Howard really wasn't the right guy for this job . Lots of fine actors are also wasted in the movie . The movie lies its emphasis on the story and therefor too often forgets about its character that become at times a secondary element in the movie . The movie does really lack a solid main character . It's not that Tom Hanks is of course an horrible actor and it's not like he's miscast in the movie , like most people say he is , his character just isn't always likable or understandable enough . Ian McKellen's role is too limited , as he is introduced too late into the movie . So is Jürgen Prochnow in a very small role and Alfred Molina , who's character had way more potential than was eventually used . Yet the movie remains a perfectly watchable one that is also more entertaining than you'll perhaps would expect . The movie features more than enough interesting and mysterious elements to keep you interest in the story until the end . The story features lots of imaginative and fascinating elements , the book by Dan Brown on which this movie is based is not a world wide success for no reason . Too bad that in the end the movie does not live up to the book it's success or brilliance and it doesn't quite meet expectations . It's some good intelligent entertainment but it's just not one of those movies people will still talk about in 10 years from now , I would reckon .
He might arguably have been the greatest but this movie certainly isn't .	This biographic movie about Muhammad Ali is a solidly made but also flawed one . Biggest problem with the movie is its storytelling . Everything is happening way too fast , the one moment he is getting married and only a few moments later in the movie he is divorced and remarried again . This all happens in a time span of just some minutes . The movie tries to cover too much story and tries to tell too much in a too short amount of time . Also too many characters are introduced in the movie who ultimately don't play a significant enough role in the rest of the movie . Guess that is what happens when you almost completely re-write a already finished script . Also after watching this movie I don't really have the feeling that I now know who Muhammad Ali was and what drove him to do the things the way he did . Basically the movie is only about his boxing-career and although the movie focus on lots of other things the main essence always lies on the boxing . It never is explained in the movie why Ali boxed and there is very little told about his background and youth . Basically all I learned from this movie about Muhammad Ali was that he has a great sense of humor and was a real ladies-person . Still it's a solid enough movie . The movie is perfectly directed by Michael Mann who gives the movie lots of class and style . The movie has written Michael Mann all over it and that's a good thing to say . There also is nothing wrong with the acting . Will Smith might look that much alike Muhammad Ali but he plays so convincing that he becomes believable in his role . Also the almost unrecognizable Jon Voight was more than great in his role . Both actors received an Oscar nod for their role . Also really impressive was Jamie Foxx in a much smaller role . It's a very nicely made movie that absolutely is worth watching and is enjoyable enough , despite it's long running time . Still , if you want to learn more about Muhammad Ali , you most definitely are better of watching a good documentary about his life and / or career .
Good movie , too bad that it's so moralistic .	This was a movie I really enjoyed watching . It on top of that had a first rate cast , with lots of big names in it . Too bad that the movie with its themes is too moralistic though . The movie tries to send out a message and tries to make a statement but it does this too forced with its sequences and distracting story-lines . Because of this it becomes totally unlikely , which causes it to simply not work out . Nevertheless the movie is more or less still being saved by the fact that the movie does not pick a pure dramatic approach with its story but also at times a pure comical one , also with some of its characters . This of course makes the movie a pleasant one to watch , even though the story goes over-the-top at times . I also must add that most of the movie its comical feeling and moments also really work out thanks to mostly mainly the musical score from Danny Elfman . What a great ensemble cast this movie has . A movie with a cast like deserved to be better known and seen by more . Ray Liotta , Kiefer Sutherland , Forest Whitaker , Lea Thompson , John C . McGinley , John Mahoney , Keith David , Eli Wallach , Lynne Thigpen , Troy Evans , Jeffrey Tambor , these are all some big names and they are all in this one film . You would expect that it perhaps is a bit overkill but all of the roles are well balanced out throughout the movieThe movie tries to tell an important story of the treatment of war veterans and their medical care once they've returned to the States , or rather said the lack of medical care and all of the red tape that goes with it . But basically the hospital sequences in the movie " Born on the Fourth of July " give a way better and more powerful image of this , even though it's not entirely about the same subject as this movie . Problem with this movie is that it too badly wants to make a statement and send out a message . It sort of downgrades the movie but luckily the movie its entertainment still makes this a perfectly watchable one .
Could had used some more Spider-Pig .	This movie started off really well and promising and seemed like an extremely entertaining animated movie , focusing on the famous animated family the Simpsons , of which the first television series episode first aired in 1989 up till still this very day . However as the movie progressed more and more problems raised . By saying the movie could had used some more Spider-Pig I don't literally mean that the movie should had featured some more of Spider-Pig ( on second thought , well maybe that's also what I meant ! ) but more that the movie handles different plot-lines but none really gets featured or wrapped up properly . It was like the 11 ( ! ) writers of the movie each came up with a different plot-line and everything got thrown together on a pile in the end . The Homer and Bart farther son relationship , Homer and Marge's marriage crises , pollution , Lisa falling in love , it's all good but nothing gets really handled satisfying enough in the long run . Nevertheless , its very main characters and silly main plot-line make sure that " The Simpsons Movie " at all times remains a perfectly watchable and entertaining movie with even a couple of moments of brilliance . Especially the character Homer never seizes to amazing and entertain to the max . Also basically every other character from the Simpsons series makes an appearance in this movie , some featured obviously more prominently than others . This perhaps shall disappoint some of the fans of certain characters but good news is that this movie doesn't waste too much time on introducing any new and main characters . And why should they , when you already have Springfield filled with all kinds of colorful characters . The movie in its core is in fact about nothing else than the Simpsons family and that's also the way it should had been really . Of course they obviously had more money to spend on this movie than on the television episodes . So this can be seen in some of the more detailed animations but overall the movie maintains fairly much the same style as the television series . The humor of course also basically remains the same , although this movie goes a bit over-the-top at times in terms of how ridicules the humor gets at moments , as the story in general . Fun , though flawed , entertainment .
Quentin Tarantino's early work is good and interesting enough to watch but will be probably too amateur looking for most people .	We will never see this movie in it's full glory . The final reel of this movie was destroyed in a lab fire that broke out during editing and the only surviving parts were edited together to make this 34 minutes short movie . Still you never get the feeling that you're ever really missing any sequences while watching this movie . This is a Tarantino movie alright . It has some absolutely amazing dialog . The story isn't really about much but the dialog makes sure that this movie is an interesting enough one to watch . The line ' Your ass is grass , and I'm the lawnmower . ' , right before two persons get into a fight , is an absolute classic in my book and now actually one of my favorite movie quotes . The movie is interestingly told and divided in several different parts , in the same style as " Pulp Function " . This movie would latter also form the basis for Tarantino's script for " True Romance " . Real problem with this movie is that it lacks style . It's a very amateur like looking movie and it uses standard camera-positions and weak editing . Because of this not everything in the movie works very well , such as most of the comical moments and the weird kung-fu fight toward the ending . Tarantino's vision was obviously already present but he didn't had the right tools and persons around him to make the right movie he had in mind with it . Oh well , he eventually ended up alright with that ! Probably only truly recommendable to Tarantino fans though .
Entertaining action non-sense .	The story is totally unbelievable and stupid but this is simply not a movie that is trying to be believable and smart , it's made to entertain and entertain it does ! What is it with German directors making patriotic American movies ? You have Roland Emmerich who made the patriotic movies " Independence Day " and " The Patriot " and you have Wolfgang Petersen who made this movie . Yes " Air Force One " is a patriotic movie , I mean the American president fighting a couple of terrorist , how more patriotic can it get . But is it a bad thing ? In this case no , the patriotism really didn't bother me , since it is clear that this movie is just simple action non-sense that is not meant to be taking serious . I find it funny that many people call Gary Oldman the highlight of the movie . This movie might very well be Oldman's worst role till date . He played many villains before and he has done way better . Compared to his other roles this is a very average role for him , it almost feel like he is holding back . I think it says something about Oldman as an actor that people still love him in this movie . Harrison Ford acts a bit stiff in the beginning but once the action begins he seems to become more and more comfortable in his role and becomes a believable American president . I love both Xander Berkeley and William H . Macy , they are two of my favorite small part actors so it was fun for me to see them both in this movie . Jürgen Prochnow , best known for his role as the captain in Wolfgang Petersen's masterpiece " Das Boot " also plays a small part in this movie . Like I said , the story is total non-sense but still it is not made like it's totally unbelievable , which is I think thanks to Petersen's professional directing and it is the action that also doesn't disappoint . Another thing that also doesn't disappoint is the musical score by Jerry Goldsmith . ( SPOILER ) A thing that does disappoint is the ending when air force one crashes into the sea . It's very poorly made and it reminded me of a computer animation the always used to made in the 90's to reconstruct a plane crash and showed on the news . ( END OF SPOILER ) So as long as you don't take it all very serious , this is a very entertaining action movie .
Pretty strange but I like it .	I don't like all of Takashi Miike's movies but I found this one to be pretty enjoyable , despite it being quite an odd movie . But well , that's just Miike's thing , so be sure what to expect before watching this . Miike's handles all kind of different styles and themes and blends them together into this movie . It has lots of crazy characters , a bunch of violence and also a large amount of sex and nudity this time . This gets all combined with its absurd story , that strengthens all of its other themes , making this an odd as well as an unique viewing experience . Despite all of its heavy visual themes , with violence and sex , the movie is above all things also strangely entertaining to watch . Miike puts in his trademark comedy , that often makes this movie a light and pleasant watch , despite all of the heavy things that are happening on screen . He knows to put in the comical touches at the right place and at the right time . Of course it often is a hard movie to understand and follow because of all of its unusual themes and not so every-day common characters . It therefore also really isn't a movie for just everybody but if you are willing to give this movie a change with a clear mind and don't try to think too much about it all , until afterward when things start to seem to make more sense to you , changes are you might end up enjoy watching this movie . It's a movie that gets better as it progresses . At first it all is one big blur to you but later on things start to clear up more and you're able to understand some of it's themes and intentions of Miike . Everything starts to come together to you and suddenly what normally seems strange now seems perfectly normally , once you're drawn into Miike's world . A movie worth giving a go .
Not as good as the first but just as fun .	I have never been a regular watcher of the show " Jackass " on MTV but when I did watch it I often did enjoy its craziness and fun of it all . I also liked the first movie , " Jackass : The Movie " a surprising lot . " Jackass Number Two " is not as good , fresh and original as the first movie but its done in the same trend as the first movie and the TV show , so how could it have ended up bad ? Ever since 2002 , after the release of " Jackass : The Movie " it had been more quiet around Johnny Knoxville , Steve-O , Bam Magera , Wee Man , Chris Pontius and all of the others . No wonder that they were more than keen than to make yet another Jackass movie , 4 years after they all last worked together . Ever since a lot of TV shows tried to jump into on the success of " Jackass " and shows such as " Dirty Sanchez " , " Viva la Bam " , " Wildboyz " and " The Dudesons " but no matter how absurd some of the things they did in it were it nowhere ever reached the level of " Jackass " . Secret of " Jackass " are its persons that are involved . No matter how strange they are and behave , they are all likable in a way and the fun they are obviously having together translates really well on to the screen . It also really feels as if they haven't been gone for 4 years and they just continue on were they had stopped . This is also why I'm still looking forward to the third Jackass movie and even Jackass number 11 and 12 . No , the movie is not as good as the first movie was . The crazy stunts and stuff they came up with for this movie were just not as good and original as was the case in the first movie . This of course doesn't mean that this movie isn't good or hilarious to watch . Difference also with the previous movie is that they perform more skits and play more pranks on each other this time . The skits are probably most hilarious since they are so crazy and well done . It's great to see the director Spike Jonze dressed up as an old lady harassing people with her breast hanging out of her clothes . Yes , that is the Spike Jonze who also directed the movies " Being John Malkovich " and " Adaptation . " . Or watch Johnny Knoxville as an old man picking fights with random people and embarrass them with his fake attached set of balls that bungle below out of his shorts . The movie still makes you wonder though how much of it and i'ts reactions are real and what got staged . This already was sort of an issue with the first movie but this movie raises this question as well . Sometimes it seemed to absurd to be real . But real or not , the movie will make you laugh for real . It's almost constantly funny , even when they aren't doing any crazy stunts it's still fun because they always do or say something funny instinctively . Like I said before it are its performers and interaction and chemistry between them that makes Jackass irresistibly funny to watch . Even though Johnny Knoxville and Steve-O are obviously the big stars of the show they still know that they are nowhere and nothing without all of the other guys and they also behave like it . They are just a part of the group and their part in this movie is no bigger than any of the others and that's how it should be like . The movie is perhaps also more gross than the previous movie . It features quite an amount of vomiting , drinking horse semen and of course Dave England shows his skills of doing number two's on command . Absurdly and irresistibly fun . Bring on the other Jackass movies !
Way better than you would perhaps think .	Well , honestly did you expected this made for TV-version to be better than the Stanley Kubrick 1960 movie starring Kirk Douglas ? Fact is that for a TV-movie this one is about as good as they can get ! It's a well made one that is also good looking . What a nice surprise this movie was ! I understand it needed to be sellable as a two part or more TV-movie , but that doesn't take away the fact that some of the sequences remain overlong . It also takes a whole for the movie to really start off . I understand the movie wanted to show a lot of gladiator moments , of course especially considering the success of " Gladiator " , but nevertheless it takes longer then really necessary . Also toward the end the movie tends to be overlong in parts . It's a well directed movie , that creates a nice balance between the action of the movie and the more personal dramatic and political aspects . Even though the movie is overlong at times , the movie still at all times remains a well paced one . Director Robert Dornhelm has lots of experience directing made for TV-movies and he has some good vision and obviously knows what he is doing . I'm interested at what he can do with more resources and a bigger budget . The movie is definitely good looking and by no means cheap or clumsy , as you most likely would expect from a made for TV-movie about the story of Spartacus . OK the special effects to recreate large Roman cities obviously aren't the greatest but for instance it's no worse than in a " Rome " - episode . The movie has some surprisingly large and good looking battle sequences . Also the entire choreography of the sword-fighting is done in a great way . The movie also isn't afraid to show blood and violence , something TV-movies are normally reluctant to show . Goran Visnjic was a surprising good choice for the main lead . He at first hand doesn't seem like the most logical or best choice but he handles the lead really well and is believable in the action sequences as well . The entire cast is filled with mostly TV-actors , but this by no means mean that the acting in this movie is below par . On the contrary really .
I enjoyed it ! A great light-movie to watch .	Of course this movie is being often compared to " The Great Escape " . The similarities between the story lines are striking and some of the sequences are almost exactly the same . Only keep in mind that this movie was actually released a year before the great escape and this movie its story is based on the real events as lived by Charles Coward , who also served as a consultant for this movie , while " The Great Escape " is based on a totally other true story . The movie is not an heavy confronting WW II POW movie . Instead its more of a comedy at times with almost slapstick like events and characters . It does make the movie a bit unbalanced and silly to watch but for me it also made the movie very light and easy . I'm not really sure though what for a movie this was supposed to be ; A comedy or a drama . It's too incoherent and unbalanced to really say . The movie is obviously low-budget but they used some creative solutions to hide this , in the movie . The main character is really fascinating . He is being played by Dirk Bogarde , who of course is always a pleasure to see as the main lead , regardless of the role he plays . The rest of the characters are a bit muddled in and simply not interesting enough . The movie also changes often of setting with as a result that new characters get introduced and old ones abandoned . All in all its not a terribly memorable movie and certainly no classic . The movie is too incoherent for that and the most of the character too uninteresting . Nevertheless this is a great movie to kill some time with . Nothing heavy , just some good old fashioned light-entertainment , with some good moments . Worth seeing if you get the chance .
Two disagreeing ' captains ' on one ship . . . both are right .	" Crimson Tide " is a movie that has grown onto me in the last couple of years . The movie had never been really any of my favorites , I never really cared much about the story and never thought the movie was tense enough for a thriller , in which never enough happened . This has changed the recent years . I now see how relevant the movie is and I am able to appreciate what the movie tries to tell and of course also the performances from actors Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman , which already is reason enough to watch the movie . Mutiny occurs on a nuclear submarine when the captain and his Lt . Commander disagree about firing a nuclear missile on the Russians , when the launch message is received , followed by an incomplete followup . Hackman is legally , by the Navel rules right , while Washington is morally right . So both are right in a way but you can't help routing for Denzel Washington , since Gene Hackman just basically plays a mean old piece of . . . Not that I mind though . It keeps the movie totally great and interesting to watch , since Washington and Hackman are just great in every sequences that they're together in . There always is a constant tension between them . They're different characters with different opinions and they perhaps never really liked each other but yet they always respect each other , right till the end . It provides the movie with some really effective and memorable moments . The movie is filled with many more big names in it , of who most were still fairly unknown actors at the time , such as Viggo Mortensen , James Gandolfini , Rick Schroder before his " NYPD Blue " period and Ryan Phillippe among others . So a real good job on the casting here , since it also features some already at the time established actors , that really all fit their roles really well . But lets face it . How much tense and interesting can be going on in a movie set almost entirely in a submarine . The movie does a good job at keeping the movie always interesting to watch , despite its subject and settings , mainly thanks to a high pace . It keeps the movie surprisingly tense and provides the movie with a constant atmosphere of tension . The story itself is quite interesting and thought provoking , once you start thinking about it how much power a submarine captain actually has ( had ) and how he can unleash a nuclear war with the push of a button . They try to also put some sequences in it with deeper meanings and layers and it certainly provides the movie with some memorable moments but the pace it is too high to actually allow you to absorb things and think about it . The movie also starts to repeat itself after a while . It also features far too many technical details that the viewers just don't understand and only work distracting from the true story and atmosphere of the movie . It really doesn't make the " Crimson Tide " the best , or most tense , movie ever written , though its premise is really more than great thriller material . I can understand that they hired other writers ( Robert Towne , Quentin Tarantino and Steven Zaillian ) the spice up the movie a little , by putting in some more dialog , character development and deeper meanings . Yet the movie really doesn't feel as if it had been written and re-written by different writers . I think that we can also thank director Tony Scott for that , who provides the movie with one overall consistent fast style and atmosphere . Some of the things that really make this movie better than just your average submarine movie is the very lively cinematography by Dariusz Wolski and the suiting musical score by Hans Zimmer , that works very effective and powerful for some of the sequences . In a way this movie also was his big Hollywood breakthrough , though he had composed some successful Hollywood scores before . Both really lift the movie to an higher level . Not an essential viewing ( though perhaps it are Washington and Hackman that still make the movie one ) but nevertheless a movie worth seeing if you can appreciate a well constructed movie , set almost entirely aboard a submarine .
Good , fun , fan-made movie by Mark Hamill .	The movie is basically a ' fan ' movie , made with limited resources and shot with hand-held cameras . Only important differences between this and other fan movies is that this one got made by Mark Hamill , who of course has a bigger foot between the door than any other fanatic amateur film-maker . This means he got the right connections and the influence to get actors , film-makers and other persons such as Bruce Campbell , Ron Perlman , Stan Lee , Kevin Smith , Ray Harryhausen and Hugh Hefner involved . It's of course also the only reason why this movie ever got a DVD release , not that I mind though of course . It's a fake documentary , so the movie does not really have a written story and actually features lots of improvisation . It of course nevertheless follows a main plot line , that is good and interesting enough to keep your interest throughout the entire movie . The movie goes on for a bit too long though perhaps and the movie feels rather stretched out at times . It's nevertheless and nicely made and connected movie , with the right editing and camera-positioning for this sort of movie . Mark Hamill really did his homework for this one . It all really clicks together . The movie is of course also made all the more interesting to watch because Mark Hamill himself plays the central character of the movie . Even though he doesn't appear in an awful lot of movies anymore , he still shows that he still knows how to act and he is also good with the improvisation parts . Perfectly watchable fun little film .
Too much story and too few gags . Still an above average Laurel & Hardy adventure .	This Laurel & Hardy movie is not among their best . It has way too much story and subplots present and because of this the boys are not given the full opportunity to show their skills and antics in this movie . There are lot of scene's in which Laurel & Hardy are not even present . There is an unusual amount of dialog and story present which works perhaps only distracting from Laurel & Hardy and their silly slapstick moments . Most people are not waiting for a movie like this . Most people just want to see Laurel & Hardy act silly and get into some troubling and silly situations . The whole story makes perhaps a bit of a pointless impression and the ending is not satisfying enough because it leaves too many loose ends . But before I really am beginning to sound negative , of course the movie is still fun . There are some good jokes present , of which some are also truly quite memorable . It also is always fun to see James Finlayson in a Laurel & Hardy picture . This time he plays the boys their sergeant in the army in Imperial India . He provides the movie with some good and memorable moments . Yet it is the story that is most overly present in the movie . The movie is not really about Laurel & Hardy , not really about slapstick moments but it's more a serious story disguised as a comedy instead . This might slightly disappoint some of the fans , although there still is plenty to enjoy for them and for everyone else of course . The gags still work , despite the ' serious ' ( serious for Laurel & Hardy standards of course , I mean . ) story .
Fun surrealistic comedy .	When you're watching an Alex van Warmerdam movie you know you're to get something interesting and unusual . He always fills his films with a large amount of surrealism but at the same time knows to keep his films accessible and watchable for the main stream public . It might very well be true that this movie is his best known and most appreciated movie . It's not the type of movie with a clear point or purpose but this doesn't prevent this movie from being simply an enjoyable one to watch . This movie is mostly so fun to watch due to its many eccentric characters and unusual settings . The entire movie is set in an housing development , that consists out of one long street , without pavement on the road , with a school and butcher shop . At the end of the road there is a bus-stop and an artificial planted small forest . This is their entire world . It's set in the ' 60's , which of course also gives the movie a certain atmosphere but really this movie could had also easily been set in modern time and it just wouldn't make that much different to the story or any of its characters . The movie is filled with lots of eccentric characters . Every characters has somethings strange or unusual around him or her , some more extreme than others . It are mostly this quirky little aspects about each and every character that makes this movie such a fine comedy , since its not a movie with an awful lot amount of dialog and its also a rather slow moving movie , with long stretched shots . The movie features some fine Dutch actors , though it seems sort of weird that the best and best known actors play insignificant supporting roles in the movie , such as Loes Luca and Jacques Commandeur . Jack Wouterse is a well known actor now but back in 1992 no one had ever heard of him and this also was one of his first ever roles . The most fun role is being played by Theo van Gogh , as Fat Willy , who constantly rides on his moped and terrorizes the street with it . I've always liked him better as an actor than as a director , or anything else . Like always , also Alex van Warmerdam plays a role in the movie and so does his wife , actress Annet Malherbe . It's true that the movie sort of looses it as it heads more and more towards its end but overall this movie remains perfectly watchable throughout - and above all also really fun to watch .
Quite the charmer .	The title sounds as if this is some bad horror but this is a quite charming little Christmas special from 1965 , starring the teenager Liza Minnelli in her first leading role . With this movie Minnelli goes into her mother's footsteps . She dances and sings her way through this movie . She of course had a great example and teacher to look up at in the form of her mother Judy Garland , who starred in dozens of musical movies . Also her father Vincente Minnelli was no stranger to the genre and was an acclaimed and well known musical movie director . Yes , Liza Minnelli is good and enjoyable in her role in this movie and shows that she can sign and dance . Something that would eventually even get her an Oscar 8 years later for her role in the movie version of " Cabaret " . She is however not the most attractive person within the genre . She is not attractive no and she even wasn't in 1965 . It's perhaps a reason why she never became such a big musical star as her mother was , even though she also wasn't among the best looking actresses of her time . The movie is quite cheerful and therefore also charming . It features some good songs and characters that pop up . Cyril Ritchard is really great in his role as the Big Bad Wolf . But how exactly is this a Christmas special ? Just because there is a Christmas tree in the back doesn't make the story of Red Riding Hood really feel fitting for a Christmas special . An original attempt to try and re-tell the famous story but also a bit of a silly one . The movie obviously looks as if it was filmed on a stage and it of course most likely also was but this feels sort of fitting for a TV special and actually suits the movie its atmosphere and overall cheerfulness quite well . It's a good watch and basically just a fine simply enjoyable 50 minutes .
Doesn't really feel like a Die Hard movie but it's a great action flick on its own .	Just what I had feared after watching its trailer for the first time ; this movie doesn't really feel like its part of the Die Hard movie franchise . Main reason for this is its approach . All of the previous three Die Hard movies had a certain realistic action approach . The movies at all time felt like these events as portrayed could really occur one day . It didn't tried to overdo things and put in any overblown action sequences , even though some moments were still rather far fetched to say the least . And then there is " Live Free or Die Hard " . In this movie John McClane battles a F-35 on an highway with a truck , fights an Asian chick in an elevator shaft will hanging in a van and crashes a car into a flying helicopter . It sort of tells the approach of " Live Free or Die Hard " . It features mostly overblown action sequences and the movie , as well as definitely its story , are far from believable all . But there is nothing wrong with this all , since this movie is still a great action flick on its own right . Still I'm somewhat disappointed that the movie sort of lacks the same feeling and approach of the previous Die Hard movies . What makes " Live Free or Die Hard " a great movie in its genre are its stunts . The movie knows to come up with a couple of highly original action moments and an even better execution of it all . Len Wiseman shows that he's a man who knows how to handle the action genre . But yes , even so I still wished John McTiernan had directed this . The movie is good looking with a nice visual ( though it was a bit too dark in parts perhaps ) style , which looked like they had a serious budget to spend on this movie and they did a good job with the money . The story and its main-plot is overall pretty good but only problem with it is that it's filled with some stupidities . This unfortunately ALWAYS happens when Hollywood decides to make a movie involving high tech computers and other technical aspects . Some things are just not possible as portrayed in this movie while others are just utterly ridicules ( Really , press the delete button to make hacker leave your computer ? ) . Hollywood always spends lots of money on hiring experts who tell them what is really technically possible and what's not but amazingly they all time ignore these advises , all in the best interest of the story and flow , at least in their opinion . I of course can somewhat understand this , since sometimes you just have to simplify a lot and make things happen without having to spend too much time explaining why . But this doesn't take away that the story of this movie is an at times pretty silly one to follow . But oh well , logic just isn't one of the requirements for an action-flick . Bruce Willis is well over 50 but with this movie once more shows that he can still handle an action movie , also as John McClane . The character hasn't changed much , he still manages to get his shirt very dirty only he has lost more of his hair by this time . I have always liked Timothy Olyphant as an actor and I really loved him in " The Girl Next Door " but I had my doubts if he was already ready enough for a big villainous role in a movie such as this one . He was good enough in his role but unfortunately he wasn't exactly among the most or best movie villains of this or any other decade . Did they ran out of Gruber brothers already ? All in all , I can really recommend this movie as a superior mindless action flick . And after all , a movie that features a nice Boba Fett reference ( of course also involving the Kevin Smith character ) just can't be all that bad , even though the fans of the previous three Die Hard movies might still feel a bit cheated by this movie its style , approach and handling .
Average thriller with one big plus .	And that one big plus is Rutger Hauer . He really plays a very memorable scary psychopath , one of the best out of movie history . I really feel that at least an Oscar nomination would have been a proper thing . The story is kind of thriller average , as a matter of fact there isn't really a story . It's a road movie / thriller combination that feels and looks like a straight to video B-movie . But it's a combination that feels and works surprising well ! C . Thomas Howell is not a great leading man but luckily Rutger Hauer compensates a lot . I can't even imaging how this movie would have been without him . Probably very , very bad and forgotten . He makes some scene's really worth watching and scary . But of course not just only Rutger Hauer is good . There also are some nice cruel sequences and some nice but not always interesting situations . Unfortunately the movie is a bit too short and leaves more questions then answers . Not really that recommendable unless you really want to see Rutger Hauer in a most excellent psychopathic role .
Enjoyable unpretentious simply B-horror fun at 30 , 000 Feet .	This is a rather enjoyable simple horror movie , that was obviously not made to win any awards but to bring some good entertainment instead . The movie is filled with all stereotypical shallow characters you would expect . I mean , OF COURSE there also just happens to be a convict aboard with a cop attached to him , pretty stewardesses , a couple of scientist , quarrelsome young couples , oh and even a nun and a couple of other weird bunch of characters of which you never get to know their names . simply because you just don't care . No the movie doesn't feature much surprises . It's a pretty formulaic movie with all of the elements you would expect . Nothing happens as a real surprise and it's one of those movies in which you pretty much know already who is going to die and live . You know exactly in advance what you're going to get when you watch a movie like this , with a title such as this one has . It takes a bit too long for the movie for the horror to kick really in but this has obviously to do with the movie its restrained budget and also story . I mean , if things started off right along in this movie , it would had probably only had been about an hour long . I mean , how much good and interesting can you come up with a movie that's completely set aboard a plane . About halve way through the action really kicks in and the gloves are off ! The fun really starts then when the zombie like creatures are unleashed among the passengers and get on a killing spree and more and more zombies are reborn . It then most becomes obvious what an unpretentious simply B-horror this actually really is . The movie turns into a pure gore-fest , with the one graphic killing after the other . It's a good visual looking movie . At least it's not clumsy or anything and everything looks actually quite convincing and professional . Also the make-up and gore is pretty good looking and shall definitely please the genre fans . It definitely knows how to make use of its limited budget ! As you would expect the acting isn't much special but this also has everything to do with the simple script and formulaic dialog . Still there are some decent well known actors in the movie , like Erick Avari and Raymond J . Barry . The story is kept at all times simple and is of course far fetched , silly and far from believable . But like I said before , how much interesting can you come up with for a movie that is completely set aboard a flying plane ? And uh , firing guns and blowing up gas tanks in a plane without crashing down or even create a hole in the plane ? I think that pretty much sums up how serious you have to take this movie . This movie is simply good and enjoyable for what it is , a deliberate simple gory B-horror flick , featuring a whole bunch of zombies . It serves its purpose really well and effectively ! A great movie in its genre , that is very well worth watching , at least if you're in these type of movies of course .
Good humor but the movie drags on for too long at points .	The humor is good and typical British . Most of the jokes work really well , it's just too bad that some of the sketches are dragging on for too long and the movie itself feels a bit long . Man oh man , let me start of by saying that Peter Cook and Dudley Moore are horrible actors . It was really painful to watch at times for me but since this is a comedy , the acting really is secondary . The real power of course lies in its jokes and one-liners . Who cares really that Dudley Moore and Peter Cook weren't the world finest actors ? The quality of the most sketches is good even though some of course are better than others . But like I said it drags on for a bit too long at times , some more pace wouldn't had been such a bad idea at times . After 2 sins I already got a bit tired thinking about it that I had to watch 5 more sins but luckily the movie never really weakens and keeps you watching to the end . It is a very recommendable movie to kill some time with , also because of Raquel Welch small role !
Not the most spectacular Dracula movies but yet it's also one of the more solid ones .	This is the eight Dracula movie entry from the Hammer studios , which began first in 1958 with the movie " Dracula " and ended in 1974 with the movie " The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires " . All of these Dracula movies are of variating quality but they all have in common that they are entertaining to watch , like basically every Hammer movie ever made . There is a bit too much talking though at times and not enough ' action ' , so to speak , though toward the ending this certainly changes . It doesn't make the movie dull or anything but still makes it feel a b bit overlong . Nevertheless the movie has a good and original enough story . The movie does a good job at putting the old fashioned Dracula character into ' modern ' 1974 ( even though the movie itself already got released in 1973 ) . This is something most modern horror movies could learn from . The story mixes the occult with the Dracula legend , combined with some modern police work . Peter Cushing once more plays a true excellent role as a decedent of the good old Abraham Van Helsing . A character he played numerous times before throughout his career . Christopher Lee also reprises his role again as the famous blood-sucking count . It would be the last time he would play the character , though he played vampire characters again in later movies . It was a real worthy last Dracula performance by him . As often the Dracula role is also really restrained in this movie . He doesn't even show up for the first time when we are already well halve way through the movie . Nevertheless its always great seeing Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing acting in one and the same sequence together . The movie besides also features a fine British supporting cast with some fine actors . The movie is well directed by Alan Gibson , who also directed the previous Hammer studios Dracula entry " Dracula A . D . 1972 " . The movie further more features some wonderful editing and camera-position at times , like you would expect from an ' 70's movie . Also surprising good was the musical score by John Cacavas , that suits the movie real well . The movie knows to create a good and also certain tense and mysterious atmosphere . It adds to the reason why this movie is such a perfectly watchable one . It surely a movie that entertains withs story , characters and actors which are portraying them . A great Hammer movie !
Moments of greatness but overall a flawed gangster epic that is still great to watch though .	" Casino " is by no means a bad movie but it rather is a flawed one , which is mainly due to the story and its characters . The first two-thirds of the movie is certainly great but after that the movie takes some negative turns and it loses some of its credibility and I lost some of my interested . No question in my mind that Martin Scorsese is a great director but he however does push it at times with this movie . People compare this movie to " Goodfellas " for a good reason . Just like " The King of Comedy " and " Bringing Out the Dead " were similar in many ways to " Taxi Driver " , " Casino " is on many ways similar to " Goodfellas " . It's a tough gangster epic with lots of graphic violence , lot's of cursing and backstabbing characters . The main storyline is especially parallel to " Goodfellas " . Yes , you can truly describe this movie as " Goodfellas " set in a Las Vegas casino in the ' 80's . Unfortunately the casino world is not as interesting to follow as the gangster world as portrayed in " Goodfellas " , at least that's my opinion of it . The movie is too often about ' nothing ' really . Style over substance you may say . But also when you judge the movie on its own good you have to come to the conclusion that there are flaws in it . Sharon Stone is great in this movie but her character is distracting from the movie at times , especially towards the ending when almost the entire movie evolves around her character . It gets tiresome at times after a while and the movie loses some of its credibility because of that . There also are way too many characters introduced in the movie , which makes it hard to follow at times . I also never really got in to the character , not even the main characters . I couldn't really care for any of them and it was hard to understand and follow them at time . The movie is also too violent and graphic , even for my taste . It's a bit too much and some scene's are unbearable . Scorsese really pushed it there and should had hold back a little . There's nothing wrong with the style of the movie . It's fast paced and wonderfully looking , also mainly thanks to the director of photography Robert Richardson but also of course to Martin Scorsese's stylish and unique way of directing and storytelling . Yes , there are some memorable sequences present in this movie , which certainly helps to make this movie a better one than most of the others in the same genre . Also of course the presence of some well known good actors make this movie a good one to watch . Robert De Niro is never disappointing in the main lead and Joe Pesci yet again plays a typically hot tempered Joe Pesci role in which he always is just great to watch . The movie unfortunately under-uses James Woods . They could had done some more and better things with that wonderful actor . Great to watch for the fans of the gangster genre . Overall a good , yet flawed gangster-epic that is certainly worth watching but not worthy of the high rating .
Fun entertainment , only a bit too long though .	This is a well made entertaining little movie , told in a wonderful fairytale kind of way and with a great atmosphere , that makes you feel like a child again . This movie had all the potential to become a real great and classic children movie but unfortunately the movie makes some bad choices . The movie can be seen as 4 in one . It features 3 told fairy tales and then there is the storyline regarding the brothers Grimm themselves . The whole story of the brother Grimm is perhaps not the most interesting told one ( especially not for children ) and its not as wonderful and fairytale like as the actual fairy tales told in this movie . And the brothers Grimm have written some of the most marvelous and best known fairy tales but yet this movie decides to use some lesser known and less great fairy tales ( ' The Dancing Princess ' , ' The Cobbler and the Elves ' and ' The Singing Bone ' ) . In my opinion it makes the movie a bit of a missed opportunity . It's not a bad movie now but the whole movie gave the feeling it all could had been more entertaining , humorous filled and a bit shorter . The movie had easily could and also should had ended 15 minutes earlier . The movie now needlessly goes on for too long . The fairy tales are definitely the best told parts of the movie . They flow well , have a fun feeling and atmosphere all over it and all makes you forget your worries for a while . It's kept all perfectly childish and it ensures that it never ever becomes too scary for the young ones . The movie is filled with some wonderful and lovable characters and they're being played by some good actors . Laurence Harvey and Karlheinz Böhm aren't really believable as brothers , mostly because of their looks and very different accent of course but they're still of course good actors . Some supporting roles are there for Terry-Thomas , Buddy Hackett and Billy Barty among others . The movie was made filmed in 3-camera Cinerama . Cinerama is the trademarked name for a widescreen process which works by simultaneously projecting images from three synchronized 35 mm projectors onto a huge , deeply-curved screen . So a technique that works only in cinemas . On the small screen it just doesn't look good and it looks like the images on screen are cut in 3 parts but back then movies just weren't made for home release of course . The movie is good looking . Deliberately campy with its fairytale sequences and good and realistic in its ' real world ' sequences . The sets are all nice ( Oscar-nom ) and so are the costumes ( Oscar-win ) . The stop-motion effects in the movie are all fair looking but it's nothing too impressive really . Wasn't Ray Harryhausen available for this movie ? Good entertainment , for the whole family .
Decent enough , fairly early , genre movie .	The movie has a pretty interesting approach for ' 50's standards , by inserting lots of flashback sequences , with the home-front , that however also happen to be incredibly sappy . It does at parts make the movie a melodramatic one . Submarine movies just never have been any of the best or most exciting , action packed movies because of their restraints , with a couple of well known exceptions of course . The movie has a good beginning but as it heads toward the ending the movie starts to drag and become less interesting , when the movie becomes more personal and gets filled with some more emotional aspects . It even manages to put in a personal and family dramatic main plot-line in the movie . What an accomplishment for a submarine movie ! Yes , it helps to make the movie more original and less formulaic but it also of course isn't the most interesting approach thinkable , especially not since it gets stretched out for the movie its entire duration . The miniature effects were pretty good looking . I mean I have seen far worse , even from movies that were made much later . Although they are hard from convincing by todays standards of course . Glenn Ford was a great choice for the main lead , as the tough looking but sensitive commander . Ernest Borgnine forms a good duo with him , as the submarine's lieutenant . The rest of the character remain mostly in the back . A decent enough genre attempt .
Worth seeing .	This movie is a watchable one . It's not really a rememberable one though but when you decide to watch it , it won't bore you . When the movie began I was kind of worried . The editing was poor and the acting horrible B-movie like and it had a made-for-TV kind of look . But thankfully all those things improved later as the movie progressed . It's obvious that the budget wasn't very big since they had to use stock footage from movies like " U-571 " and even " Down Periscope " . They also used stock footage from real WW II Destroyers and other boats which was pretty obvious at times , it was kind of amateuristic and unrealistic the way it was edited into the movie . The story is pretty solid , despite some awfully weak dialog at times . It was at first kind of weird that the movie focused on both the Americans and Germans in the same way but later in the movie it becomes obvious why . The movie mostly fails to become tense but still its perfect good entertainment to watch all . Not a must see by any means but when you decide to see it nevertheless , you will be fairly entertained . And hey it has got William H . Macy and Thomas Kretschmann and some other well known actors in small roles in it , which makes this movie absolutely , very well watchable .
Creativly original .	This movie is definitely a case of style over substance but the style is good and certainly more than unique on its own to make " The Cell " a memorable and above average movie . " The Cell " is beautifully looking with impressive sets , costumes and make-up . Yes , it's real eye candy to watch all . The movie has some perfectly ' dreamy ' sequences that are certainly odd but also very beautiful and imaginative to look at . This movie is a perfect mix of an art-house type of movie and a typical Hollywood-thriller , that is accessible to both fans of the genre . The story itself is pretty far fetched and doesn't always make sense . Because of that the movie isn't always pleasant and likable to watch but like I mentioned before , the style compensates for this . The style makes you keep watching till the end and provides the best moments of the movie . Vincent D'Onofrio is unforgettable as the serial-killer with a twisted mind . Vincent D'Onofrio is really underused as an actor and this movie shows his talent once more . I'm not particularly happy about the casting of Jennifer Lopez . I know that she can act in some of her movies but she really wasn't suitable to play the main character in this movie . Her character wasn't strong enough and she was overshadowed by Vincent D'Onofrio and Vince Vaughn . Still I felt that Vince Vaughn was also miscast in this movie . He didn't fit the role well enough and no , I'm not saying that because I'm used of seeing him only in comedies now days . The rest of the supporting cast is good and still give the movie a certain degree of credibility . The musical score by Howard Shore was also surprising good and was sort of " Se7en " like at times . It suited the movie well and gave some of the scene's some extra mood and atmosphere . It's a far from perfect movie and the concept is far fetched and not always handled in the right way . Still " The Cell " is a perfectly watchable movie and perhaps even a bit of a must see , due to its style , originality and creativity .
One of Laurel & Hardy's earliest attempts is an enjoyable one .	Although by no means a comedy must-see , " Do Detectives Think ? " is a worthy movie from Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy , who in 1927 just began working together as a comedy team , for the Hal Roach studio's . It's a movie that is good thanks to its little comical moments . It's not the sort of movie that is hilarious constantly but it has some great original and funny moments in it that are good for a couple of laughs . It's certainly not the most consistent Laurel & Hardy silent comedy short around but it's an enjoyable one nevertheless , which is also thanks to its fun simple story . It makes " Do Detectives Think ? " an above average early Laurel & Hardy movie . Problem of the movie really is that the comical moments in it are rather stretched out . If only the movie was about halve its running time shorter , perhaps the movie than would had been a better and even more enjoyable one . The movie its flow would at least had been better if that had been the case . The cast is good . Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy ( who was looking quite thin by the way ) already seem to be in their element as the famous comical duo . Also really good was James Finlayson in a great comical role . He steals the show in most of his sequences . Just his looks alone and some small actions is enough to provide the movie with some great laughs and comical moments . Also Noah Young is well cast , as a psychotic killer who tries to kill the judge ( the James Finlayson character ) who convicted him . The boys play two detectives , with odd names , who are send by their agency to protect the judge but of course everything goes wrong and the boys really mess things up again . Of course everything about the movie is predictable but it's a well made and originally directed movie . The timing is nice and the movie is well edited which makes most of the comical moments work out really well . A good enough enjoyable early Laurel & Hardy comedy short , that uses a bit too many stretched out comical moments to prevent this movie from being one of their best works .
A great early genre example .	This is a great typical Italian Giallo genre example , that has all of the usual and required elements in it , such as lots of fake blood , bad dubbing , weird sound effects , some surreal dream-like sequences , a lunatic murderer , an eerie atmosphere and lots of sex and naked women ( for some reason they even start to wrestle naked in the movie ) . These Italian thriller / horror productions from the ' 70's and ' 80's are often fantastic to watch and are totally overlooked by the big audience . It's a great and original genre on its own and it uses different ' rules ' than the Hollywood productions from the same era and beyond . It for instance has different kind of editing , different kind of cinematography ( often also hand-held to increase the movie its atmosphere and tension ) , a different style of build-up ( real European-style ) . It's always something special and unusual to watch . It has an unpleasant and creepy kind of atmosphere , in which unexpected things happen all the time . There's never really much to the story of these sort of movie , even though they always try hard . It's simple but it always works well . This movie is not really an exception to this , even though it surely has its original moments and like always a great twist at the end and some twists in between . The acing is above average and is by genre standards . The women are cast because of their beautiful looks and the men because of their charismatic appearances , both pretty and villainously ugly . Especially Ivan Rassimov works out great , while Edwige Fenech is also a pretty good leading lady , who perhaps faints and scream one or two too many times . She now also plays a small part in " Hostel : Part II " , an obvious reference and homage to her Giallo past , by director Eli Roth . The movie has a great typical Italian genre movie musical score by Nora Orlandi . The kind of stuff Ennio Morricone also used to compose in his most early days . Very unusual sounding but wonderful at the same time . The musical score was even reused later again by Quentin Tarantino , for his movie " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " . Not the best but still a great example of the genre .
Not grand .	This is far from being the best Laurel & Hardy short , even though it surely does have its moments . It's a bit of a disappointing entry , in the long series of Laurel & Hardy shorts . There is almost absolutely no story present and the movie relies too much on funny sounds and too many long comical sequences . I mean watching a couple of minutes how Olie tries to get his boots on and off gets a bit tiresome after a while . Still I don't rate this movie poorly , since I was still more than amused by it all . Especially Stan's stupidity never seizes to amuse . There also are a couple of moments in the movie that makes it definitely worth watching . Of course the timing is perfect and the chemistry between the two boys is amazing to watch . They really feel each other and make some of the sequences work better than scripted . They even make the predictable moments in the movie work - and funny . To some it might be a disappointment but the movie has got more than enough entertainment in it , to make it a movie that's well worth to watch .
Educational-entertainment .	Granted that this movie is better as entertainment than as a thought provoking insightful documentary but that doesn't mean it's an unpleasant watch of course . At first I thought that the entire concept of the documentary maker eating at McDonalds 3 times per day for 30 days straight to proof that fast food is bad for your health , was quite ridicules . Everybody already know that it wasn't the most healthiest thing in the world to eat . What was he ever trying to proof ? That's why I never was too keen on watching this documentary but still I decided after a year to give it a chance anyway . Glad I did . I can now understand the documentary maker's point and overall I was entertained by the documentary . This documentary perfectly shows that fast food and health problems are very directly related and can work addictive as well . In a way cigarettes are just like fast food . Of course there is nothing wrong with eating some fast food about once or twice á week . As long as you get enough movement or do some sports you'll be just fine , just like those 2 black kids said in the documentary . I actually know a person who eats at McDonalds about 2 or 3 times per week . He practices a few sports and he is in perfect health and shape . So the real problem is not really the fast food itself , it's the mainly the people's own fault for getting fat and unhealthy . Still the fast food companies also do little to prevent this . They put an amazing number of calories in their products and advertise aggressively , especially towards young children . That's why Morgan Spurlock picked mainly McDonalds for his documentary . It might seem unfair of him to only mainly focus on McDonalds but he does this because this is the company that has by far the biggest market out of all fast food companies in the world but more importantly it's also the fast food company that advertises the most aggressively on both on TV and on the streets . They try to appeal to young children and with toys and playgrounds they try to give the children a fun , warm , happy feeling whenever they are at McDonalds , so that they will always associate McDonalds with fun , warm , happy feelings . That fact that Morgan Spurlock ate at McDonalds 3 times per day for an entire month might seem a bit extreme . No person in the world does this , at least not 3 times per day . But that wasn't Morgan Spurlock's point . He wanted to show in a very direct way what junk food can do to your health , body and mind . The documentary does provide some good points and some insightful information but it isn't really anything groundbreaking or thought provoking all . I just see this documentary as educational-entertainment , with the emphasis on entertainment . For Europeans and people from other continents , this documentary doesn't really apply . Halve of the McDonalds products shown in this documentary aren't even sold here and we also don't have this crazy super size menu's and overall , fast food related health problems and fatness aren't really a big problem here . But that doesn't mean that they don't can have any fun in watching this documentary .
Like a " The Twilight Zone " episode , only it leaves a too unsatisfying feeling afterward .	This movie is a rather surprising unknown Dutch production , that has a really great atmosphere and one fine , filled with potential , main concept . What mostly drives this movie is its look and atmosphere , with some nice cinematography as well as good use of old archive footage . It can be described as something coming from a " The Twilight Zone " episode , in which a murder mystery is handled and that constantly makes you question if what the main character is seeing and hearing is real or not . It does this in a realistic way , sort of in the same trend as a M . Night Shyamalan movie . However this movie just doesn't work out as well as it could had . Like I said the movie features a potentially interesting concept , that could provide the movie with plenty of interesting story elements and tension . Yet it feels like the story is never fully getting off the ground . The movie is constantly building up its tension and mystery but it never delivers . At times it really seemed like the movie was getting there and interesting to watch , for instance when it starts to look like the main character is slowly loosing his sense of reality ( just like his deceased uncle ) and the line between the real world and imagination becomes really thin but then again , the movie decided to do nothing with it in the end . The movie features more elements just like that . It constantly hints at the supernatural . It builds up all the time with its mystery but it never ever pays of in the end . The entire movie is like one big build up to nothing and the ending leaves far too many loose ends and questions . It's so unrewarding . Here you are watching a well such a good looking movie , with nice settings and a good overall atmosphere but in the end it all feels pointless that you were watching this for 90 minutes because the ending is so unsatisfying . In that regard this movie also is really like a M . Night Shyamalan movie ( at least like his most recent work ) . Still I'm willing to give the movie somewhat the benefit of the doubt . The concept and the right ideas are there but it's the execution ( the storytelling ) of it all that is mostly lacking . Still is " Het Zwijgen " is an unique and atmospheric Dutch production . The right talent is definitely there but next time ( fore the film-makers deserve another shot ) they just need to pay a little bit more attention to the story and especially the way of storytelling within the movie .
Fun . . .	The movie is great fun to watch , however the quality isn't that high . The amazing thing is that the movie is based on true facts . If you don't know this the movie seems totally unbelievable and silly . It's great fun to see how Frank Abagnale Jr . ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) commits fraud time after time and impersonated several professions that he is not qualified to . However it feels like some lose events that were glued together in order to make an 2 hours + movie . I think that the story of the real Frank Abagnale is much more interesting . The actors are perfect . Leonardo DiCaprio is perfect for the role and he even manages to play a convincing early teenager , certainly his best role till date . But the one that steels the show is of course once again Christopher Walken . It's wonderful to see him again in a non-psychopath role . Tom Hanks also gives a nice performance however i have seen him done better . Certainly some nice casting work ! Visually the movie is eye candy because of the costumes , sets and especially cinematography . There are some typical Spielberg things in the movie which makes it worth to watch . Like the comical elements of the movie that are done brilliantly in a way only Spielberg can do . Bad thing is that the movie doesn't seem like one to watch over and over again . Not a must see but still a fun movie to watch .
Not emotional , not shocking . . . not a masterpiece !	This movie promised to be a lot but overall it only disappointed me . This movie promised to be emotional , shocking , confronting , nightmare giving . . . the greatest anti-drugs movie ever made ! It wasn't any of it . There are several problems I had with this movie . The first and biggest was the style . Now , I love Tim Burton movies and I'm a Brian De Palma fan , so normally I like unusual and unique styles , however the visual style of " Requiem for a Dream " just didn't do it for me . In my opinion it also didn't do any good to the movie and the story . It made some of the emotional scene's even almost look comical like . I know the style was meant to give the movie a ' trippy ' kind of feeling but if you truly want to have a ' trippy ' movie experience watch " Natural Born Killers " instead . I don't know but the movie also gave me the feeling that the cast and crew didn't really did much if any research on drugs and the effects . They could have had at least spoke to some ( ex ) - junkies or spend 10 minutes in a room with Courtney Love or sit down all together in an Amsterdam coffeeshop for a day . I don't really know why but the movie didn't gave me the feeling at all that they did any of this . Maybe if they had done this they also wouldn't have had miss cast Jennifer Connelly . I like her as an actress but she is far to pretty and ' normal ' like to play a convincing drugs addict . The story was also quite standard and pretty far fetched . I mean , if you're a drugs user this is about the extreme that could happen ( but not the worst ) . I Only really liked the Ellen Burstyn story line . Mainly because Ellen Burstyn self acts wonderful and her character is the only one that doesn't start as an addict and is the most believable and emotionally involving one . That brings me to another I had with the movie . I couldn't feel for the characters . I make it sound like this is an horrible movie which I totally hate . But however this is not the case . There are enough positive things to say about this movie . Such as the hectic ending , that really made up a lot for me and nice little musical score by Clint Mansell was also good . I still have respect for this movie and what it tries to be but for me it overall left simply just a disappointing impression . A bad movie ? No ! Over-hyped ? Yes !
Eli Roth ; the new master of horror !	What Eli Roth always does well with his horror movies is using all of the usual horror clichés but he still knows to deliver the in a refreshing and original way . It's the reason why his movies still work out surprising , despite following the usual and expected formula . In a way he is also always subtly making fun of all the genre clichés but without becoming ridicules or a spoof . What Eli Roth also always does well is implying a lot of things but is then turning 180 degrees and starts heading in a totally different and unexpected direction . For instance you might be expecting this movie to turn into a typical teenage slasher genre flick , which it really doesn't . It takes a whole different other approach with its horror , which I wont spoil . Yes , it's true that it doesn't always the most exciting movie to watch and it's a bit slow at times when basically nothing is happening in the movie . So I can understand the people who did not liked this movie very much . I however did liked it due to Eli Roth's approach of the genre . He's a real horror fan who just happens to be good at making movies as well . He understands and loves the genre and this always shows well in his movies . It's also a really gory made movie , as as well can be expected from Eli Roth . The movie was a fairly cheap one to made with its $1 , 500 , 000 budget but movies like this proof that you don't need a lot of things or a big bundle of money to make a good and effective genre movie with . The movie is exaggerating with its gore at times , which is really in tone with the rest of the movie its style . It's a special kind of style not just all people will just ' get ' and appreciate but it's what makes Eli Roth such a special young new director to me . I'll hope he'll direct many more movies , even though this movie is by no means a brilliant one it's a special one nevertheless . You'll either probably hate it or love it but you should at least give it a try .
Amusing but also fairly shallow anti-war movie .	It's not really a movie that forcedly tries to be funny but nevertheless a movie that's filled with silly and quirky characters and situations . This combination makes this a sort of an original as well as amusing funny movie . But because of the many characters in the movie , none of them really get developed strongly enough , simply because there is no room for it . It makes the movie a bit of a shallow experience as well . That is what happens when you have a movie filled with an all-star cast . But the movie is an extremely well made one , with some outstanding actors , which definitely saves the movie and still makes this a greatly and amusing watchable one . The movie is filled with many long and complexly constructed scene's . It's a very well directed and constructed movie , supported by some good camera-work and some great dialog , that for some reason doesn't always remain chronically . Mike Nichols once more really shows his skills with this movie ! The well known actors all helps to uplift the movie . I especially liked Anthony Perkins who was surprisingly good in a comical role . It's a movie about madness and the whole pointlessness of war . It shows this well and in an amusing way . The story is cleverly written but again , it's also pretty shallow all . The movie gets is message across but I feel that it's not as powerful or effective than it could had been . The movie does get better about halve way trough , when things start to take a more serious shape . Still it's of course a perfectly watchable and amusing movie to watch !
Going on a treasure hunt with Lt . Columbo .	This is definitely an original and different Columbo movie . Just like the previous " Columbo : No Time to Die " , this movie its story got based on an Ed McBain novel . Not sure what the story was behind adapting these McBain novels , since its stories , atmosphere and settings have basically very little to do with the familiar usual Columbo franchise . Nevertheless , this is a movie that works out pleasantly because of its fine story . Might be difficult to really see this movie as a Columbo movie entry but as a stand alone movie its simply a fine one . It's also a nicely directed movie , that has a totally different look from the usual Columbo movie entry and breaths a totally different atmosphere . It has a more theatrical - and professional movie look so to speak . Vincent McEveety was a director who tried out many different things for the Columbo series and he succeeds with this movie at were Alan J . Levi failed with his other Ed McBain adaptation " Columbo : No Time to Die " . It has a good detective mystery story , with a sniff of adventure to it , thanks to the whole jigsaw puzzle concept , that when put together shows the place were 4 millions dollars from a bank robbery-gone-wrong are hidden . The whole movie is about finding this pieces of the puzzle and the people that are holding them . At times the movie even has a touch of film-noir . It all sounds odd and out of place for a Columbo movie and yes it probably also is but nevertheless this concept , story and approach makes this simply a very fine and enjoyable movie to watch . It has really story that could had also been used for a successful full length theatrical released movie , having many big names in it . I must say that perhaps it would had been better all together if it indeed got made that way . Not that it's a bad movie right now but it would had worked out better all if it featured some original and fresh character and wasn't a part of the Columbo franchise , with Peter Falk in it as the famous police lieutenant . The story doesn't always connect well with the character and the movie also has some weaker , slower moments in it , when Lt . Columbo goes investigating and interrogation his suspects in his trademark own manner , which again , doesn't always correspond well with the style and atmosphere of the entire movie . Because of that for a part of the movie Lt . Columbo also needs to go undercover ( hence the title ; " Columbo : Undercover " ) , it means that Peter Falk's role is also different from any other thing he has done in any other Columbo movie . Guess he really enjoyed playing in this one ! You could say that Columbo is not himself during this movie and he spends halve of the time pretending he is an Italian gangster . So no trademark Columbo moments really in this movie , which might disappoint you when you're expecting simply a Columbo movie like any other , that follows the usual successful formula and has all the familiar ingredients in it . There is also a load of some good and well known actors within this movie . Ed Begley Jr . , Burt Young and Tyne Daly all show up . It definitely gives the movie something extra and they also really did one fine job playing their roles . Same also goes for Harrison Page , who I liked as Columbo's partner in this one . Sort of a shame and perhaps a missed opportunity that he didn't got featured in any other later Columbo movies . Really different from any other Columbo movie you'll ever see but it all works out fine and makes this a pleasant , different , Columbo movie experience .
Good last Bernard L . Kowalski Columbo movie .	Bernard L . Kowalski was probably the most consistent director out of all the Columbo movie directors . His Columbo movies are not necessarily the best ( though " Columbo : Death Lends a Hand " is still one of my favorite Columbo movies ) but his ones are always really solid and bring out the best of the classic successful Columbo formula . It's probably also the reason why they let him direct so many Columbo movies in the ' 70's , with this movie as his last Columbo movie . 3 years after his Star Trek buddy Leonard Nimoy , William Shatner also plays in a Columbo movie , as the killer as well . He's not as good as Leonard Nimoy in it but of course still plays the role well enough . William Shatner is actually a really stiff actor . He doesn't seem to move a muscle when he's delivering his lines and when it does so it feels very forced , in a B-movie kind of way . It makes him mostly such a cult-favorite but of course at the same time is also the same reason why he has never really starred in any big Hollywood productions and is mostly an actor who is doing his work for TV productions . He and Peter Falk have some great interaction together in their sequences . Lt . Columbo as always manages to get close to his suspect and gains his trust , by letting him think he is helping Columbo with the case this time . The movie has a well written plot , with a cleverly executed murder and it uses some nice settings . This time Columbo has to snoop around the set of a popular police series , in which the William Shatner plays the main part and of course soon becomes Lt . Columbo's prime suspect . It luckily isn't one of the longest Columbo episodes though , since it also just isn't the most interesting one . Nothing too special , just simply one fine executed Columbo movie entry and a great example of why the Columbo formula was such a great and successful one .
Not the fastest or most clever Columbo movie but its writing makes this a solid one .	It's not the best Columbo movie out of the series but it's just as good and perfectly watchable as most other Columbo series from the long running series of fine movies . The movie features some very long sequences , of which some are really too long . Some sequences just go on and on without getting swiftly to its point , while it easily could . Also not all of the sequences seem to be relevant for the actual movie and its main plot . The movie is also one of the longest Columbo movies made , with its 98 minutes . It doesn't make this the fastest or best flowing Columbo movie but its story still keeps the movie interesting throughout . It also isn't the most clever Columbo movie in terms of the killer his plot and it isn't a Columbo movie with many twists to the story but it simply is a well written solid story that remains interesting throughout its characters and settings . Having a candidate for senator as the movie its killer works out fine . It provides the movie with some tense sequences between the killer and Lt . Columbo , since Columbo is obviously somewhat reluctant at first of making accusations against such an highly respected man , that also above all things is his wives favorite candidate . And of course the senatorial candidate is underestimating the lieutenant . The movie also features all of the other usual Columbo movie ingredients , including some good relieving humor . Perhaps a tad bit more humor than the usual Columbo movie but it's welcome . The movie is also made great to watch thanks to its fine performances . Peter Falk is great in his role and he fits the part like a glove . Can you just imaging any other actor portraying the iconic figure ? In this movie he is playing opposite Jackie Cooper , who is best known to the main public as Perry White from the Superman movies starring Christopher Reeve . He is really great and charismatic in his part and a worthy ' important ' opponent for the lieutenant . Simply another fine Columbo movie entry , of the usual high standards .
Robert Culp is on a killing spree again !	One year after Robert Culp appeared as the killer in the Columbo movie " Columbo : The Most Crucial Game " he returns once more to play the role of killer in this movie but in a totally different role this time of course . It was the third out of four Columbo movies he ever appeared in and I must say that he probably plays his best role in this movie . I don't any other actor besides Peter Falk appeared in so many different Columbo movies . The movie itself is basically your average standard Columbo movie entry . No surprises and the movie stick to the usual successful formula . As a matter of fact I found the story to be even a bit tiresome at times since it reminded me a bit too much of other previous Columbo movies . Oh well , perhaps I've just seen a bit too many Columbo movies lately . The story gets perhaps a bit too silly at times , especially toward its ending , which also makes this Columbo movie perhaps a bit more outdated than others . The story was written by Stephen J . Cannell , who is better known as the big man behind ' 80's hit-series " The A-Team " . It could be just me but I thought that this movie its atmosphere was perhaps also a bit darker than the usual Columbo movie . Nothing wrong with this though , it's just an observation . It can also have to do with the fact that the movie is mostly set indoors . It's certainly the best Columbo movie that got directed by Richard Quine . It was his third and last Columbo movie he ever did . His first movie " Columbo : Dagger of the Mind " was perhaps the very worst Columbo movie ever made and his second " Columbo : Requiem for a Falling Star " was a below average entry . This movie is also lacking a certain style to make the movie more interesting than the average entry and is lacking too much in surprises to consider this one of the best Columbo movies . Nevertheless , it's an obviously perfectly watchable one . Even though the story is formulaic it doesn't bore and is the reason why this movie is just as good to watch as any other standard Columbo movie .
Simply fine Columbo entry .	The movie is set in the cosmetic world . With that concept the movie is perhaps a bit ahead of its time but of course its a theme of all times . Over the centuries women always tried to look younger their age . There is basically nothing wrong with this movie and it's a good average entry into the long successful running series of Columbo movies . No , it's nothing too special or spectacular but it features all of the right required elements . It's the reason why this movie is an average one but it's also the reason why this is such a perfectly watchable one . The movie its concept and settings provides the movie with some good moments and characters . On top of that the characters are being portrayed by some fine actors . Martin Sheen plays the victim ( he was also still a fairly much unknown actor at the time ) and the excellent Vera Miles plays the killer . As icing on the cake , Vincent Price also makes his appearance , who was still very popular in the horror scene in the ' 70's . It's rather special to watch Vincent Price and Lt . Columbo in one shot together , interacting . The movie is directed by Jeannot Szwarc , who is perhaps best known for directing the sequel " Jaws 2 " and the less successful " Supergirl " . He now spends his career directing successful television series such as " Without a Trace " , " Cold Case " and " Smallville " . Kind of funny that he has returned to his roots now , since he also started his career directing similar television series , from a totally different decade . Television series such as " Kojak " and in a way this movie also really fits in with those series . He's obviously at ease within the genre and knows how to tell the story in a short amount of time , with a good pace and also still some class . There is also some real subtly in the directing at times . The movie has a decent proper build up and despite some minor flaws , which more has to do with the fact that the movie needs to restrain its own running time to just over an hour , the movie is a fine one . Of course things get rushed at times and not everything gets properly wrapped up but isn't that the case with basically every Columbo movie and other different crime series ? A fine watchable Columbo movie .
Martin Landau and Martin Landau versus Lt . Columbo .	This is a well directed Columbo episode , with also some good character but the story just doesn't really know to interest enough and doesn't appear as well layered and constructed as was often the case with a Columbo movie . This also goes for the killer's plot to kill his uncle . It's quite simple and doesn't seem as well thought out . Perhaps this movie didn't really took itself serious enough , since the atmosphere of the movie is mostly light . At least when compared to different Columbo movies . For instance the movie features quite a large amount of comical relief , mostly coming from the Columbo character himself . It makes the movie an enjoyable one to watch but it also gives you the feeling they sort of overdid it times , also mostly since it doesn't correspond with most other Columbo movies . The characters are good and it helps that it features Martin Landau in a double role . It's always funny to see how much different he still looked as a young man , while for instance a person such as Peter Falk hardly changed any over the years , he only got grayer . The movie also features Julie Newmar among others , who is best know for playing Catwoman in the ' 60's " Batman " life action series . It's funny how she still moves like Catwoman in this movie . Intentional or is this just her way of acting ? It's an enjoyable and good to watch Columbo movie but it also gives you the feeling that it all could had been a lot better with a better thought out script .
Some nice effective modern horror .	I'm not against remakes in general , since sometimes modern movies can give ' older ' movies something extra with a makeover with todays technology and standards . Doesn't mean that I just agree with all remakes , since some of them are just plain pointless since the original ones are already brilliant at their own right . However this is just a remake that I don't mind . To be honest I haven't seen the 1977 Wes Craven original but I'll bet that it was quite different from this movie . This movie is a typical modern horror movie , with a modern atmosphere and style written all over it . I wouldn't at all be surprised if this movie actually turned out to be better than its original . The movie features purely unknown actors , with the exception of Ted Levine perhaps and Kathleen Quinlan also has had her 15 minutes of fame . The fact that this movie purely mostly features unknown actors in it ensures that you just never know in advance who is going to die next . This of course has a successful effect on the tension and therefor the movie overall . Yes , " The Hills Have Eyes " is mostly a formulaic genre movie and also story-wise this movie really ain't anything special ( basicly the movie is about the one killing after the other ) but its simply such a fine made one that you tend to sort of forgive the movie for all of its imperfections . For the genre movie lover this is just one great to watch movie , that features all of the ingredients you would expect from it . Some good scare moments , some fine make-up effects and plenty of good old gore . It's a quality made movie , with a fine crew behind it . Director Alexandre Aja previously had directed the French stylish horror hit " Haute tension " and was probably the reason why he got picked to directed this movie . There are definitely worse genre movies to watch out there , especially when it comes down to remakes .
Mummy movies never has been the best horror movies around .	For some reason mummy movies never have been the most suspenseful or atmospheric creepy movies around . Not this version , not the 1932 and also most certainly not the 2001 version , for obvious reasons . It's the reason why mummy movies aren't that well known as other genre movies as for instance Frankenstein and vampire movies . This Hammer take on the mummy story is no exception . It's a well made movie but overall a too simple one , that lacks suspense , mystery or even a good main plot line . Like all Hammer movies , this movie is perfectly entertaining and watchable but fails to make a big lasting impression . It's a movie that has its moments , which helps to make sure that this movie is an above average one and because of that an also perfectly watchable one . Real problem I had with this movie was its simple story . Basically this is the main plot line of this movie is the mummy and Mehemet Bey taking revenge on those who opened the grave of the mummy's 4000 year old lover Princess Ananka . This is basically all that happens in this movie . The story is filled with some missed opportunities and bad executed moments . The character of Isobel Banning is completely underused in the movie and they could had used her character to make the movie more interesting and provide it with some more depth , with her relation between John Banning and the mummy . Her character now instead pops up every now and then , without even properly introducing her into the story . With a better story this movie would had definitely been a better one . Still the movie still has plenty enough to offer . All of the scene's with the mummy are a delight . This is mainly thanks to the fact that he is being played by Christopher Lee . He has the perfect body type to play the character . It also is thanks to the convincing and great looking make-up effects . Another great sequences is the gentleman stand-off between John Banning ( Peter Cushing ) and Mehemet Bey ( George Pastell ) , in which both try to lure each other out , without revealing their true identity and motivations in words . It reminded me of the sequences between Bela Lugosi and Edward Van Sloan in the 1931 " Dracula " movie . It's thanks to Peter Cushing's acting that this movie doesn't descent to a lower level of cinema . I admit that this is one of his best roles , in terms of his acting . Like I said before , Christoper Lee is also perfectly cast but the rest of the cast is rather disappointing , especially Eddie Byrne as Inspector Mulrooney . The movie is rather good looking and does its very best to build up a suitable atmosphere . Yet due it's simplistic story the atmosphere never really works effective enough . Perhaps best watchable for the Cushing / Lee fans only .
Great visuals can't hide that the story is nothing more than one unlikely event after another .	Was " King Kong " a bad movie ? Absolutely not . Was it disappointing ? Slightly . " King Kong " certainly does have it's moments of greatness . What else was to expect from the director who before dazzled the world with his Lord of the Rings trilogy . Most of the emotions work out well in the movie but are perhaps not as powerful as they truly could had been . This is because the movie suffers from some flawed storytelling and a flawed story in general . The editing and pace is lacking at times , which does make the movie a bit tiresome to watch at moments . 3 hours + is of course a long sit and although the movie is spectacular to watch throughout it's entire running time , it's the way of storytelling , editing and a series of unlikely events in the movie that made me loose interest at times and prevented me from really feeling for any of the characters or caring really about the emotions . The movie begins promising but after that it drags for the about next 45 minutes . Seriously did the movie really have to spend so much time on character introductions and were all those sequences aboard the Venture really necessary ? The movie can be divided into three pieces ; 1 . Character introductions and the sequences aboard the Venture . 2 . Skull Island sequences . 3 . Back in New York . All those 3 pieces really feel like separate pieces and the movie doesn't feel as a whole . Also at certain points when characters get divided , or split-up , the story doesn't feel as a whole and every characters seems to play a role in their own personal movie , that were all thrown together again in the editing room to make one movie out of . It makes the way the story is told feel absolutely weak and flawed at certain moments . Jackson obviously had more eye for the visuals and Kong than for the human characters and storytelling . But yes , the visuals of the movie are splendid . Even though the movie didn't really gave me a typical ' 30's feeling , I still admire the way the re-created the New York of the ' 30's . Also Skull Island looks fantastic and has some nice settings . And of course Kong himself also really surpassed me expectations to be honest . He looked good and he is perfectly portrayed by Andy Serkis , who gives the character a more realistic feeling . But that brings me to another problem I had with the movie ; The movie tries to impress too hard . They try to top themselves in basically every sequences when it comes to the special effects . You see a dinosaur ? Let's bring in an even bigger one ! You see an insect ? Let's bring in a faster one with more legs and jaws . It makes all of the spectacular action sequences on Skull Island feel very unrealistic and the story becomes too artificial . It's OK to impress the viewer with some revolutionary special effects but not when the story and storytelling suffer from it . I'm not a that big fan of special effects driven movies anyway ( might sound strange , that coming from a Star Wars fan . ) because of the simple reason that computer effects still look like computer effects , no matter how good they are made . This particular movie overused it's effects , in the never ending effort to impress the viewers and leave them in awe . The actors in the movie are good . The sequences between Kong and Ann Darrow work out surprising good and powerful at times , which is of course also thanks to Naomi Watts , who was really good in her role . Jack Black is a revelation in a more serious role and he shows that he can also really do some good drama . Adrien Brody is of course also a great actor but I still don't really understand why an Oscar winning actor plays a role like this . It's a role without too much importance and flair . I can certainly imaging the movie without his character . Other fine actors in the movie are Thomas Kretschmann , Jamie Bell , Colin Hanks and Andy Serkis also plays an entertaining , enjoyable role as Lumpy the cook . All of the characters however are given very little screen time in the second and third act of the movie , with the exception of Ann Darrow of course . The movie truly mainly focuses on Kong and Ann Darrow . It does provide the movie with some good , powerful and emotional moments but at the same time it also provides the movie with many missed opportunities . The slowly turning evil transition of the Jack Black character for instance and how Preston ( Colin Hanks ) at certain points later in the movie forms his only link to the realistic normal world , instead of the money and fame driven world Carl Denham imagines himself in . The movie could had been so much more powerful and certainly more realistic if they had only spend more time on the script and gave the other characters also some more screen time , instead of just mainly only focusing on Ann and Kong . Of course it's a summer blockbuster and of course the story comes secondary . However in this particular case I really feel that the movie suffers from it's flawed story and storytelling . It's so obvious that the story is just almost totally empty and the movie is nothing more than one spectacular but yet unlikely event after the other . The movie forgets about its story at times and try too hard to impress the viewers with its special effects and other visuals . It makes the movie too artificial and forced to watch at times . The movie still remains almost perfectly entertaining to watch , just because so much spectacular happens . Some of the action is impressive and unforgettable but really the movie deserved a better story and character treatment . If that was the case , I almost surely would had regarded " King Kong " as one of the best movies of
An European independent movie , that is all too aware of it .	I wanted to see this movie for a long time . I recently finally got the chance to see it and although it was a good movie , it was not the must-see I heard it was and I expected it to be . This movie was praised at all kinds of festivals and website's that are respectable and thrust worthy when it comes to the ' better smaller ' - , mainly European movies . Needless to say that my expectations were high , maybe a bit too high . " My Summer of Love " feels like a fabricated movie that is all too aware of its own style , which makes the movie feel forced and too artificially made at certain moments . The story and premise are good enough . The story feels very pure and the two main characters are good enough to carry the entire movie on their own , which they also get to do . I don't know , for some reason movies with a ' lesbian ' love-story always feel so much purer and perhaps sweeter than any other love-stories . So it's not really the story that is the problem but it really is the way it is told . " My Summer of Love " is directed by a Polish director and made by a mostly English crew . It has European style written all over it , especially when it comes down to its cinematography ( shakycam , sudden zooms ) . The cinematography all feels too forced and planned . It's not pure enough and it's all very calculated . The cinematography of the nature and the more ' quiet ' sequences are good and the capture a nice mood but for 70 % of the movie the cinematography simply feels too fabricated . The way of cinematography doesn't feel necessary and it doesn't add enough to the movie . It feels like its only used to make this movie distinct itself from the more ' Hollywood ' way of film-making . At times it feels like they wanted every sequence to be pure poetry . The movie also feels incomplete . All of the sequences are too short and they end abruptly . The movie has some interesting plot-lines in it but the sequences are handled in are too short to make a lasting impression . I wanted to see and learn more about certain plot-lines and characters but the sequences were over before I fully realized what happened and what was going on with the characters . This is also the reason why this movie only is 86 minutes short . The movie doesn't cover enough of the story and because of that the movie feels incomplete and perhaps at times makes a dull and a too simple impression . Because it's all ' too short ' , the movie never really knew how to capture and set the right mood , of the boring country life in a small English town . It was not like I didn't understood or ' got ' this movie , it was just that I wasn't grabbed by it all and it didn't made a lasting impression on me . The ending also didn't really came as a surprise . The movie constantly gave me the feeling that something wasn't ' right ' , so I expected a twist at the ending , which also came . So even though the ending itself wasn't predictable , the build up to it still was . The acting is quite good and pure . Nathalie Press and Emily Blunt are good enough as the two young leading ladies but what will they be doing in 10 years from now ? Probably not acting . They are pure but they aren't really actresses . But for this movie that's OK really . I mean that probably also was the reason why they were cast in the first place . I know I'm probably sounding too negative and harsh but that simply is because the movie just wasn't as good as I heard it was and I expected it to be . The movie is still good and pure enough to please the fans of ' European ' cinema but too many moments in the movie feel too fabricated . I probably make the movie sound worser than it is , so please if you're into this sort of movies , watch this one as well . It's a movie worth seeing that still has plenty to offer its viewers . It's a good movie but not the best example of recent good and pure European film-making .
Not really a Laurel & Hardy movie and the remake is superior . Neverheless a most excellent comedy from the silent era .	Yes , the movie has both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy in it but it's not a ' Laurel & Hardy ' movie . They're not a comical duo in this movie and they actually share very little sequences together , since Hardy's role is only a bit part . The real main character of this movie is perhaps James Finlayson . Not that I'm complaining about it thought , I love James Finlayson ! He has an excellent comical timing and facial expressions , which fits the genre extremely well . The movie was later in 1931 remade again by Laurel & Hardy with sound this time , under the name " Chickens Come Home " . That movie is basically a scene-by-scene remake only with the actors in different roles . ( Oliver Hardy in the James Finlayson role and James Finlayson as the butler , among other changes . ) Yet the remake is better , not only because it has sound but also because it has more sequences with Laurel & Hardy together with also as a result that the slapstick comes over as even more hilarious and the comical moments are just as well , if not better , timed and executed . The movie is fun from start till finish . It has some excellent comical characters in it and a very good build up . The movie gets more and more funny as the movie progresses and builds up to the unavoidable confrontation in the Finlayson residence . It makes the movie probably one of the better build up comedies from Laurel & Hardy and the silent era in general . It's a very enjoyable and fun movie but not as good as the inferior remake , that is one of the better Laurel & Hardy shorts .
Sex kills .	Who would had ever known that this obscure little unknown horror comedy would be such a fun one to watch ! This is a real enjoyable horror spoof , from the period before spoofs even became popular . The movie is so silly with its comedy that it becomes really hilarious to watch in parts . The movie is filled with some crazy but real likable characters and some really well written comical dialog , which perhaps made me laugh the most . It's strange watching this obviously low budget production from Paramount Pictures , with obviously not the most talented or experienced people involved , both in front as well as behind the camera . It actually turned out that the reason why this movie got made in the first place was because that at the time there was a writer's strike in Hollywood ( yes , it's not just something of the present ) and in order to still release some movies and gain some money , Paramount Pictures funded a couple of non-union films , of which this was one . So under any other normal circumstances this movie would had probably never been made . It really looks and feels like an amateur made film but this is obviously also part of the reason why this movie has grown into becoming such a cult-classic in certain circles over the years . It's a real silly comedy , made in the same style as some present day popular genre comedies . So yes in a way " Student Bodies " seems really ahead of its time . The movie features mostly simple humor to enjoy and the movie obviously isn't one to take serious in any way . The movie spoofs some horror classics in parts but " Student Bodies " can still mostly seen as an original production with a story of its own . Well story . . . it's not like it's anything too great written . The movie is kept simple at all times . Unfortunately the movie sort of starts ' loosing it ' toward the end . It's a real shame , since to me it prevented this movie from being a true ' must-see ' and it made it quite embarrassingly bad to watch when the story seems to be suddenly all over the place . The movie is filled with some crazy and really funny characters but of course the one that really stands out is Malvert the janitor , played by a guy only known as The Stick . It's an amazingly odd man who is very tall and a little over one hundred pounds , so you can imaging a bit how he looks like . He's incredibly sluggish and moves around like he's made out of elastic and has no bones in his body . No one knows who this guy is , or what is real name is or what he's doing this present day and time . The rest of the actors are also all big unknowns , with the exception of Richard Belzer , although he is never shown on screen , at least not his face ( he plays the killer , known as The Breather , for the obvious reasons ) . He's a real cult actor due to his personality and the knowledge of his presence alone in this movie is already amusing . Despite not being brilliant I can still really recommend this movie and can insure you that it's a real hilarious one in a lot of parts .
Well made but just not the most interesting or innovative movie around .	The movie is no way near as a good as Murnau's most previous movies , mainly because it isn't really anything innovation . For his standards , this is a pretty standard piece of work . This no doubt also has to do with the fact that during the beginning of production acclaimed documentary maker Robert J . Flaherty ( the man who also made " Nanook of the North " ) was also at the helm but slowly got pushed away by F . W . Murnau as filming progressed . Two captains on one ship just never work out , especially not when they have different expertise's . It's the reason why the movie at times looks as if its a documentary about the natives and at others the movie follows obviously a story . But having said that this is no way near close to being F . W . Murnau's best , says nothing about the quality of this actual film . It's a worthy enough last picture of the German director , who gave us movies such as " Nosferatu , eine Symphonie des Grauens " , " Der Letzte Mann " and " Faust " , before dying in a car crash , one week before the release of this movie . He was one of the most influential directors of the silent film era , even though this last movie doesn't fully does justice to this reputation . The movie just wasn't always much interesting to me . Perhaps I just didn't liked or cared enough about its subject of a group of natives on Bora-Bora . The movie of course looks visually good and shows lot of the customs and lifestyle of the natives but the story just doesn't ever get off the ground . Perhaps this is also due to the fact that this is a silent movie , so without any dialogs but also without title cards as well . It only uses some monologues and a couple of letters that are being read and written by some of the characters within the movie . A ' movie ' that is worth a watch but don't expect anything typical Murnau .
Early Jackie Chan American adventure is still one of his best and most entertaining ones .	This is basically the movie that introduced Jackie Chan to Hollywood and the world to Jackie Chan . It brought the crazy and amazing action and fight sequences from Chan's into the western world of film-making . It makes this movie something fresh and unique , or at least for its time it was . I remember first seeing this movie in the mid-'90's , just before the time it was released as a rental movie . My brother was working in a video-store and had to take a few new video's home with him in order to decide whether or not the video-store should buy this movie for rental purposes . In those days this movie was really something fun and spectacular to watch and shortly afterward Jackie Chan also became a real big and popular movie-star . Way more popular and appreciated as he is now days . What really makes this movie is its action . It's never anything too big , also since the movie is made obviously with a fairly low budget but it's very entertaining and amazing at the same time . Amazing , since obviously no harnesses or cables were used for the fight sequences and stunts . It also resulted in lots of broken bones and other injuries during the production but the end result for the movie is really something great and spectacular looking and is brought very entertainingly by Jackie Chan and director Stanley Tong , who both directed the action sequences together . You should see this movie just purely for its entertaining action , since everything else about the movie is actually quite bad to be honest . It might very well be the Jackie Chan movie with the very best action in it . The movie is a very entertaining one to watch that gets better as it progresses . It's as if the in the first halve tried to be too serious with its approach but in the second halve the gloves are off and the movie becomes truly ridiculously over-the-top and fun at the same time . The best example of this is perhaps the finale sequence in which Chan and his happy friends get the main bad guy with an hovercraft . It's a totally pointless and completely ridicules and also short , rushed done sequence but because of that it at the same time works out very hilarious . I'm still looking for a movie with a better use of the hovercraft than this one ! It's hard to really judge the acting in the movie , since all of the actors were dubbed , even the American actors . This gives the movie an even more ridicules feeling and also makes the acting seem as something completely horrible and over-the-top . The movie its story often makes lots of crazy jumps and it perhaps even feel as two totally different scripts that were blend in with each other , with as a result that not everything always makes a whole lot of sense and continuity and character treatments are messy . It perhaps almost seems as if the story was mainly purely there to let the movie feature as many and crazy stunts and fight sequences as possible . The movie is most of the time looking and definitely feeling as a B-movie but in a good way . It's made as an entertaining movie and at entertaining this movie does simply not fail . As long as you don't pay any attention to the story or logical and it's acting or anything else like it , you'll simply enjoy this movie for the entertainment that it brings , with mainly it's over-the-top but absolutely amazing action sequences .
Not hard to see why this movie has become sort of a semi-classic .	A scarcely dressed Raquel Welch , a cat-fight and Ray Harryhausen dinosaurs . What more do you need to have a good time ? This movie is better than it's remake , that's for sure . The movie was remade only 4 years later , under the title " When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth " . This movie in itself is also a remake of the 1940 movie with the almost similar title " One Million B . C . " , starring Lon Chaney Jr . and directed by Hal Roach and his son with the original name Hal Roach Jr . This is not the sort of movie you would expect from the Hammer studio's . Not only its concept and settings differ from their normal horror productions but also the atmosphere is totally different and it doesn't at all feel like an Hammer movie . Guess this was the touch of director Don Chaffey , who was more experienced in making entertaining and adventurous productions , such as for instance the classic production " Jason and the Argonauts " from 1963 . There isn't much story present in the movie , or perhaps I was just too busy staring at Raquel Welch's breasts . It's just the one prehistorical event and fight after the other basically . The movie is made more in a documentary sort of style . But that's OK , this isn't really the sort of movie that requires a story . It's sort of funny to see ' giant ' real iguana's , turtles and tarantulas being presented as big prehistoric flesh eating monsters . It of course makes the movie look terribly outdated this present day but it at the same time is also part of the charm of these sort of movies . ' Historicaly ' it of course doesn't has any value . The stop motion-effects for the dinosaurs and the dinosaur battles were done by none other than Ray Harryhausen , who was at the top of the game at the time . The effects are also good looking in this movie and also surely provide the movie with its most memorable and classic moments . The dinosaur fights are definitely more classic and better known than the actual movie on its own . Next to its effects , the movie is also otherwise a good looking one . I liked the settings and costumes and all , though it always remains sort of funny in these sort of movies that the actors all seem to have perfect white teeth . Good fun prehistorical nonsense , that features all of the elements you would expect .
Standard but well made movie .	This is a good and above average political thriller with action elements in it . Still the movie gets a bit too complicated at times and isn't always easy to follow . The movie is also long and some point of the movie are dragging on , even though the pace always remains good and high . It's hard to say in which genre this movie can be put . For an action movie it doesn't have enough action and for a thriller the story isn't good enough . It makes " Clear and Present Danger " a bit of a mixed movie that is far from perfect but still remains a perfectly watchable movie with some great actors and some memorable moments . Main problem I had with the movie is that it lacked a distinctive visual style . A problem all Phillip Noyce movies always have . That's why I'm not a too big fan of Phillip Noyce movies , with the exception of " Dead Calm " maybe , which simply had a very solid and tense story . " Clear and Present Danger " is a good made movie but it just is too simply and standard done all and it isn't really anything new . The cast is great and has some big names in it ; Harrison Ford , James Earl Jones , Harris Yulin , Donald Moffat , Henry Czerny , Joaquim de Almeida , Miguel Sandoval , Benjamin Bratt , Willem Dafoe , Ted Raimi in a small role and a still very young Thora Birch . The music by James Honer is really good . Even though it's typical Horner stuff , like he always used in his ' 90's movies , it works really well for the movie and truly uplifts the movie at times . There are some good moments in the movie that are highly memorable such as the convoy ambush which has become a bit of a classic already perhaps . Yes , the movie is perfectly watchable but the story isn't always the best to follow and at times the storytelling is lacking . Still , a movie that I would recommend to you .
Pure and simple , great , clean , fun entertainment .	This is one great entertaining movie to watch for the entire family ! The movie features a very simple but oh so fun and effective concept of a museum that comes alive at night , to the obvious great surprise of the new night guard , played by Ben Stiller . It's not necessarily a Ben Stiller flick and it most definitely not your standard Stiller or even comedy movie , so I think this movie is also perfectly watchable for those who don't particularly are fond of Ben Stiller . It's a rare and unique comedy that is being helped and uplifted by its special effects . An approach previously attempted by " Jumanji " ( also starring Robin Williams by the way ) but that movie was only halve-halve successful , since the technology was obviously not at its best yet at the time . No wonder that this movie with an estimated $110 , 000 , 000 budget is one of the most expensive comedies ever made . It really can be seen back on the screen , which is a real positive thing to note and also one of the reasons why the movie works out so well . The story is obviously kept deliberately as simple as possible and it actually more or less features a " Scooby-Doo " sort of plot . This was obviously done to also make this movie perfectly watchable for the more younger kids . No doubt producer Chris Columbus his influence . It works out perfectly but it of course is also a reason why this movie just isn't exactly a perfect comedy must-see . The concept and main story of the movie also really seem like a great advertisements for museums and its image , especially among young children of course . Appereantly this was also the case , since visitors to the real American Museum of Natural History increased by 20 % during the holiday season following this movie's opening . The movie is of course not just made entertaining through its concept but also with its jokes and events happening throughout the movie . It's a great comedy and I even dare to say one of the better ones out of recent years . Ben Stiller is in his element and he seems to be holding back a little , to allow to let the visuals more tell its story , which I think was a great and right approach for this movie . It was also fun to see movie veterans Dick Van Dyke and Mickey Rooney in this movie . Same goes for actors such as Ricky Gervais , Robin Williams ( obviously ) and Owen Wilson , in an uncredited but quite big role nevertheless . Great fun to watch ! Any reason why you shouldn't be watching it right now ?
This unfortunately ain't not " Fargo " .	This movie always has been compared a lot to " Fargo " , not just because its from the same directors but also the story and just the movie as a whole show lots of similarities . To be honest , I wouldn't exactly say that this movie is like " Fargo " at all . I wish it would had been though , since that probably would had meant that I would had liked and enjoyed the movie much better . My main problem I had with this movie was that the story and foremost its storytelling got unnecessarily complicated at times . The movie has all the right ingredients in it to make a good and typical Coen brother's movie with but some of the ingredients are not present good enough and not mixed in well enough with all of the other ingredients . It doesn't make " No Country for Old Men " as tasty as I would had hoped and also expected . After all , this movie was the big winner of the 2008 80th Annual Academy Awards , where it won Oscar's for best movie and directing . It mainly lacks some witty and subtle comedy . Yes , " No Country for Old Men " does obviously still feature this all but the movie just gives you the feeling if it all had been a tad bit more comical and not as serious , the movie would had been a way better one . It's still a superior shot and made movie though from the obvious talented Coen Brothers . It foremost also really shows how acting can really make a movie . Coen brother movie characters are of course always something unusual and unforgettable and " No Country for Old Men " also truly features some unforgettable and unusual characters in it . Of course most memorable is Javier Bardem as a serial killer with some odd weapons as choice . He deserved his Oscar . He plays his character chilling , as well as with a sense of comedy , despite the fact that his character doesn't ever show some emotion . A real great achievement from Spanish born actor Javier Bardem . But the entire movie is basically well cast with some big names such as Tommy Lee Jones and Woody Harrelson in it , as well as some unexpected choices , such as Josh Brolin and Kelly Macdonald in some roles I had never ever seen them in before but they fit and play their roles surprisingly well . The movie is slowly build up with some long shots . It makes " No Country for Old Men " also a real beautiful movie to watch , also not in the least of course thanks to Roger Deakins Oscar nominated camera-work . I would say ; beware not to expect another " Fargo " and you'll probably end up liking this movie but if it had been a bit more entertaining all it really truly would had been one of the movies of the year .
A pleasant surprise .	Not much was to be expected from this movie and it wasn't very widely advertised at the time of its release . I also hadn't heard much about this movie before watching this movie , neither from the common crowd or the media . Besides , it stars Liam Neeson in an action-role , how good can that ever turn out to be ? " Taken " is however unexpectedly good and one of the more pleasantly surprising movies of 2008 . Within its genre this is simply one fine movie . It's a quite tough and bold action movie , in which we see lots of graphic killings . It's real pleasing though to see the main hero shooting and fighting his way through France , leaving a real killing-spree behind him . We can feel for the character and therefore are also more into the action . We understand his motivations and we even cheer for him when he bluntly kills another person point-blank or shoots someone in the back . A real accomplishment for an action movie to get its crowd so drawn into the movie its action . It's pretty obvious though that this movie got heavily influenced by the also unexpected bug success of the Tony Scott movie " Man on Fire " . It uses a similar type of plot as well as main character and it also handles its action in the same kind of way ; Very bold , raw and straight-forward . The movie is not as fresh or well constructed as " Man on Fire " though but the movie also deserves better than to be merely called a " Man of Fire " - wannabe . I must say that action movies really seem to get tougher these days , in terms of its violence and mainly the handling of it . Movies now days often pick a more realistic approach instead of going over-the-top with any of its action . Because of this the action actually looks and feels more tough . It's a real welcome development within its genre . It's not in the least thanks to Liam Neeson that this movie also works out really . Of course it seems like an odd for a 55-year old Liam Neeson to go Jason Bourne-style but it works out surprisingly well for the movie . He handles his role and also its action really well . His character makes the movie and its story work . Not that the story is much special though . It's suiting and good enough for within its genre but it's just not all quite good and fresh enough to truly consider this a brilliant - or the most original recent action movie around . I therefore was also real surprised to see its rating on here , which is extremely high for a movie of this type and its given the movie a bit too much credit . Like I said , it's a real unexpected great movie and I really enjoyed it from basically start till finish but really an 8 people ? Just really too much , especially when considering that there are far too many great movies out there who have a far lower average rating on here . Oh well , the average voting score will probably settle down in a couple of years from now , giving the movie its place and rating it in all sincerity and objectivity deserves . But to end completely positively ; " Taken " is a real unexpectedly great movie within its genre , in which Neeson perhaps surprises the most as a convincing action-hero .
The originality is the movie its biggest quality .	Director David Twohy likes mixing different genre elements and fooling the viewers . This movie is no exception since it perfectly mixes both mystery and horror elements . You never know what to expect next , which helps to make this movie a pleasant and original one to watch . The movie as a whole , though it comes close , never really works out quite fully , to be honest . The tension is lacking and in the end the movie doesn't explain enough , which perhaps causes the movie to leave an unsatisfying feeling in the end , with also some improbabilities because the things never get explained good enough . Nevertheless , it's the originality of the movie that causes this movie to still be a perfectly watchable one . The movie has some good scare - and false-scare moments . The movie also has more horror tendencies than mystery or dramatic ones . It however doesn't mean that this is just your standard average simple horror movie , so many already got made of , during this decade . The mixture of the mystery elements and the war movie elements also causes the horror moments to become original and non-formulaic . The submarine serves as a perfect claustrophobic backdrop for the movie its story . It certain en-chances the horror and it , again , also adds to the originality . My only complain about it would be that the submarine is too ' clean ' and perfect looking . Same goes for the costumes and faces of the actors . But that could be perhaps just me , comparing every WW II submarine movie to " Das Boot " . It's every WW II submarine movie and submarine movie's in general their curse to get immediately compared to " Das Boot " . The movie didn't had the highest of all budgets but that sort of is OK , since this normally always stimulates David Twohy's creativity to work . Nevertheless a movie like this one required to have a better budget and effects , mostly for the underwater sequences . It all is a bit too fake looking all to really take it serious enough . It also causes the underwater action to not really ever work out as spectacular and tense as intended to . The script ( co-written by Darren Aronofsky by the way ) and right intentions for it were there , just not always the right techniques and money . The movie has a great cast , with not the best known names in it but great actor nonetheless such as Bruce Greenwood , Olivia Williams and Dexter Fletcher . The movie has many characters in it but it makes some good choices regarding them . It gives the right characters at the right moments screen time . It doesn't cause the movie to ever get unnecessarily confusing or hard to follow because of the many characters . A great refreshing horror / mystery movie , set underwater .
Wes Anderson , Quentin Tarantino-style !	Guess I never realized it but Wes Anderson biggest inspiration as a film-maker probably always has been Quentin Tarantino . It shows best in this 13 minutes early short from the director of movies such as " Rushmore " , " The Royal Tenenbaums " and " The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou " . The movie is really made in Tarantino-style , so with long dialogs about nothing , sympathetic crook-like simple characters and a criminal plot . The acting and dialog is really what makes this movie , since the plot itself is actually rather thin and almost non-existing . The Wilson brothers were great and to be honest I've never seen them better in anything else . The movie is rather well made with some simple standard but well thought out camera positions and editing . It makes the directing also one of the highlights of the movie . But the movie remains just a 13 minutes short which is too short to ever let the movie reach a level of true greatness . It's not long enough to develop the story or any of it characters and therefor the movie mostly remains a flat and distant one , although it definitely is a well made one . It's hard to rate a thing like this , since it obviously shows that the talent is there but it it doesn't fully express in this movie .
Too much !	Man , this movie was way too intense . Normally I like fast paced Hollywood movies with lot's of action and special effects but this movie has just too much action . All of the things are happening too fast after another , the movie doesn't give you time to think or even breath ! However does that mean it didn't liked this movie ? No that was not the case , I thought the movie was very enjoyable and I find it still recommendable . Even though there is a special effects overkill , they are impressive to watch nevertheless and probably that alone makes this movie worth to watch . The movie doesn't really have more to offer than that , it feels like the story is just of minor importance and even though Hugh Jackman is good in his role , his character just doesn't really become interesting , which is not his fault . The makers should have probably spend more time on the story and character instead of just the special effects . Maybe if this was the case they also wouldn't had changed Van Helsing's name in Gabriel Van Helsing instead of Abraham which is the original name . Director Stephen Sommers however thought that the name Abraham was just too old fashioned and not cool enough , he didn't want to make a movie in which his main character is named Abraham or so he claimed in a TV interview I saw a long time ago before the movie release . From that moment on I feared the worst for this movie . Yes , a different director would have been more appropriate probably , someone who did had some more respect for all the old horror characters and their names . Van Helsing will always stay the old professor to me and not the action hero like he is portrayed in this movie . Poor Richard Roxburgh . It's not like his Dracula performance is bad but it's just that there have been so many better Dracula's like Bela Lugosi , Christopher Lee and Gary Oldman , compared to them his performance turns pale which can also be blamed on the script . But like I said I still thought this movie was enjoyable . The movie is especially recommendable if you like old horror classics from Universal . The first few minutes are a great tribute to the classics however after that the classic horror characters are only used to impress the viewer with fancy special effects . There are some good action sequences but simply too much . After one hour I already had seen enough action and was surprised to see that I wasn't even halve way trough with watching the movie . Great special effects , great soundtrack and nice atmosphere but the story doesn't do much justice to the classic characters or the actors in this movie .
Second halve makes this a good watch .	Of course this is not a bad movie but it's just that the movie is nothing too remarkable and doesn't stand out on too many fields , compared to other genre movies . The first halve of the movie just wasn't always as good and interesting enough . It went on and on about the diary , which to me just wasn't the greatest or most compelling element of the story . The movie should had progressed faster and build up earlier to the clearly better second halve . In the second halve the twists and turns kick in . It's nothing too shocking but it just makes the movie a little bit more interesting to watch and gives the story as a whole also some more depth and feeling . In the second halve you get to understand all of the motivations , that were all still mainly clouded in the movie its first halve . In its second halve it also becomes all the more obvious that this is a Cronenberg movie . Some graphic action kicks in and things tend to get more dark . Cronenberg's tries hard to create a new genre within the crime movie-genre . A genre that takes a more subtle and realistic approach and is very character driven . Guess it's just not my type of thing , since I also didn't like " A History of Violence " as much as everyone else seemed to do , even though I certainly enjoyed and appreciated the movie , just as I do this one . Just give me back the ' old ' David Cronenberg . I preferred the Cronenberg that made movies such as " Videodrome " , " The Fly " and " eXistenZ " . But he obviously now likes making this ' new ' sort of crime movies , since this is his second attempt , right after " A History of Violence " and he has success with it , so why would he stop ? The movie is also different because it's set in London . If you're being completely critical you could ask why ? What does it add to the story ? It isn't even made that clear through the images that the movie is set in London , because it doesn't show any of the famous well known landmarks . The only thing that basically gives it away are because the car's are driving on the ' wrong side of the road ' and Naomi Watts talks in an English accent , that by the way just seem to come and go randomly . The movie could had just as good had been set in any standard American or Canadian town , in which Cronenberg previously shot all of his movies . For the atmosphere and story of the movie it seems to be totally insignificant and random that the movie is set in London . But well , this is something to ponder about if you're overly critical . It of course isn't something that distracts or downgrades the movie or its story . It's above all a character driven movie , with Viggo Mortensen as the lead man . He plays - and looks like such a different character then he normally does . Perhaps it's an Oscar worthy performance he is giving in this movie , although the probably went get further than just a nomination this year . The character within the movie are characters but above all also humans . They look and feel real . Even though they are not in some everyday situations , they still deal with it as ' normal ' humans . Some people complain that Armin Mueller-Stahl and Vincent Cassel don't look and talk like Russian's but I have no problem with this . Especially Vincent Cassel fits his role right and it's also surprising to see Armin Mueller-Stahl for a change as a big crime-boss . I thought they did a really excellent job with the casting in this movie . It's a good watch as a sort of a different approach of the crime-genre but in the long run the movie is just nothing too remarkable or something that will life on for a long time in your memory - , to consider this movie one of the year's - , or Cronenberg's best .
Should get credit for trying to be original .	After 4 Rocky movies it is hard to still come up with something original again . " Rocky V " is trying to be different with the story , some things work and others don't but overall " Rocky V " is a worthy thus far last movie of the Rocky series . It's too bad that of all the Rocky movies , this is probably the one with the least ' Rocky feeling ' . Yes it is great to see that after 4 Rocky movies all of the cast members are still together but the movie misses some typical kind of Rocky elements such as a spectacular boxing ending in the ring . Probably most disappointing is that Rocky doesn't return to the ring anymore , had he returned to the ring at the ending to face Tommy Gunn I would had rate this movie way higher , I'm sure about that . Still " Rocky V " has some good things that weren't present in the previous movies . Of all the Rocky movies this movie has far more emotions and drama . I'm sure not every Rocky fan is waiting for that but I thought it worked well for the main character . Sadly the whole Tommy Gunn character didn't worked well in the movie , mainly because , well he just ain't no Rocky and on top of that Tommy Morrison can't act . Talia Shire on the other hand once more shines as Rocky's wife . In my opinion good and original enough to watch .
Who else can blow up a helicopter with a bow & arrow ?	The return of Rambo , the one man army ! In this movie he takes on a couple of Soviets , with the help of an Afghan tribe , to save his old pal Colonel Trautman . This is a great enjoyable , very simplistic , straightforward , brutal action-flick . I mean basically all there is to this story is Rambo kicking some Soviet butt . Yes , the movie tries to be more emotional with some of its themes and plot lines but none of this really works out however . When you're bit familiar with the action genre , especially from the ' 80's than there is no way that you can rate this movie any lower than an 6 . This movie is better constructed than , lets say , 80 % of any other action movies , especially those made in the ' 80's , when silly simple , brutal action-flicks were at their prime . And of course this movie also has got something no other action movie has ; John J . Rambo . Argualiby the best and most famous action-hero out of cinematic history , portrayed by ' 80's superstar Sylvester Stallone . For an action movie this is a perfectly constructed , though simple picture , that totally entertains . The movie doesn't begin that good but once it's on steam there is no holding back . Rambo is on fire , from the moment on when he fires his first shot . At first the movie doesn't seem like high-budget stuff but as the movie progresses it becomes obvious that the saved the money for its ending . With its 63 million dollar budget , it actually was the most expensive movie of its time . The second halve of the movie is filled with some spectacular and explosive action . Rambo taking on a helicopter with his bow & arrow and Rambo taking on with a tank the main villain in a helicopter are great action moments , no matter how ridicules it all works for the story and credibility . This movie leaves no question about it ; Rambo is an one man army . Granted that of course the movie is only watchable and enjoyable for the action movie fans . Everyone else , who has some common sense , will probably find this movie utterly ridicules . The movie features some beautiful scenery and its obvious that they spared no expenses on the locations . The musical score by Jerry Goldsmith also adds to the mood and level of profession of the movie , even though it's mostly recycled work from " Rambo : First Blood Part II " . The movie doesn't always flow well and it times it makes the movie feel a bit clumsy . Nevertheless , the movie remains a great genre piece , with all of the typical ingredients , including a great stereotypical mean villain and tough dialog that is surprisingly well written by Sheldon Lettich and Sylvester Stallone himself . An underrated , great simple ( like it should be ) action movie .
A trip worth taking .	This is of course another typical immature teenage comedy , with all the jokes you could expect from a genre movie such as this one . The movie is however made with such a good non-stop comedy pace that you can't help but to enjoy and laugh . The movie really serves its purpose effectively . The countries they visit seem to be pretty random . It's as if the writers come up with the cities they would visit first , before writing the actual script . Only after that they would then start writing the script , surrounding on how they would visit all those different cities . It of course make the story seem extra thin , simplistic and just ridicules but because of the pace and stereotypes in the movie it still becomes fun all to watch . The movie really features all - and the most extreme stereotypes about all of the cities visited in this movie and the people that are living in it . All of the stereotypes are so extreme and thickened that it becomes absolutely hilarious to watch , despite the fact that it all of course is rather predictable . Seriously , how can you feel offended by this as an European ? It's too silly to take it the least bit serious and it's a reason why the humor in this movie works out so well . The humor is just so dumb and simple that you can't help laughing ! This movie really doesn't leave you room to breath . Before the one humorous situation is offer , you're already in the next one again . It doesn't ever give you the time to think about what you've just seen and just take things as they come along . It makes your brain switch off almost automatically as soon as the movie has started and that of course is always the best way to watch a comedy such as this one . Despite the fact that this movie and its situations are all rather predictable , the movie still comes up with a couple of good and original moments . It certainly helps to make this movie better than just the average attempt . I think it was a good move to mostly cast unknown young actors in the lead role . The kind of actors that will probably never make it big time . It doesn't distract from the movie and its jokes . It also allows big names to show up in cameo appearances in this movie . Matt Damon , Vinnie Jones and Jeffrey Tambor among others all make some equally fun cameo appearances in this movie . I've you're able to appreciate teenage-comedies ( The American Pie sort of movies , " Road Trip " , etcetera ) , you'll have a good time watching this .
Great atmospheric piece of work .	This is a rather surprisingly good atmospheric piece of work from the early ' 80's . It's an horror that mostly lays its emphasis on its atmosphere . Even though the movie is from the early ' 80's but is still that feels and moves like an ' 70's movie , which is a positive thing to note because of the great style and way of film-making that flourished in the ' 70's . It's a sort of movie that takes its time to set and build up things and features some slow moving sequences . This of course also adds to the atmosphere of the movie . It shows a lot of scenes from the ' wolves ' point-of-view , kind of " Predator " like style . This is a great move and surely adds to the tension and also mystery of the whole movie . It's very different from just the usual genre work , from the same time period . It's a pretty refreshing ' 80's horror movie . It's refreshing since it doesn't merely tries to be a typical monster horror movie but one that is well written instead . It has a sort of more ' realistic ' approach so to speak . But yes , it's also definitely true that in this case this style of film-making also takes away some of the horror of the movie . The movie also doesn't alway makes the best choices with its story . And because the movie is rather ' slow ' , not an awful lot is ever really happening all the time in this movie in terms of horror or action . ( Of course this changes more and more when the movie heads toward the ending and its conclusion . ) The only real horror and tension is now basically only in its atmosphere , which also suffice enough in this case by the way , since its all done so great . It sort of all makes you wonder why Michael Wadleigh never directed any more movies . This was his only featured movie he so far ever directed and he further more only makes music documentaries . The movie features some absolutely great and dynamic cinematography . And they by the way must have really loved the steadicam . I mean , which other movie ever billed the steadicam photographer before its director of photography ? And it's not like this movie is one of the first featuring a steadicam , since it's an invention from the early ' 70's actually . The musical score by James Horner is also quite effective but James oh , James , why did you basically used this very same score later again for the movie " Aliens " . Oh well , Horner just never has been really known for his originality and he copies his own work more than often , which doesn't take away that his scores are often highly effective for his movies . The movie with Albert Finney , Edward James Olmos and Gregory Hines , among others , features quite some big popular names in it . The casting doesn't seem always likely but all fit their parts well and did a more than good job . A refreshing and good original piece of work that is surely a recommendable one !
Nice early little thriller .	This is a rather enjoyable movie that is nothing too impressive but is a good watch nevertheless . The movie begins slow and dull because it's mostly just so formulaic . From the beginning on it isn't clear which approach the movie picks and what the movie is all about . Really no thriller elements in the first halve , just some formulaic drama and romance . Only halve way through the movie the movie starts to become interesting when the thriller elements of the movie start to appear in to the story . The movie is more thriller than it's film-noir really , which might be a surprising thing , considering the time the year was made in . So yes , in a way the movie is quite original , despite being formulaic . It has a typical thriller build up that builds up that leads to the unavoidable ending . The movie has some good genre moments , which mostly works out due to the fine cast and suitable atmosphere of the movie . How often do we get to see Humphrey Bogart in the role of a psycho really ? That is quite awesome ! The supporting cast is also one to die for . Barbara Stanwyck was one of THE leading ladies at the time and Alexis Smith was also quite popular . Nigel Bruce , who everyone knows as THE Dr . Watson from the Sherlock Holmes movies starring Basil Rathbone , also plays a quite amusing small role in the movie . Despite its genre clichés , this is still a rather well made movie . It's effectively directed and the story flows well , despite being quite silly at times . It's an above average movie due to how professionally it's made and how well the actors handle the script and its more silly ( clichés ) and unbelievable moments . Perfectly watchable movie , especially for the Bogart fans , who want to see him in a role that is different .
Slick thriller with some good twists and turns in which nothing is what it seems but it's all made with little style . Still the movie is saved by the cast .	This movie really is a mixed bag . On the one hand , the story and concept of the movie are really good , tense and have some nice plot twists in it . But than again on the other hand , it all is told very slow , without style and uninvolved . Still I regard " Just Cause " as an above average thriller simply because of the fine cast . Maybe Sean Connery was miscast in his role . I mean , he isn't really that believable as a the main ' hero ' and father of a young daughter ( played by a still very young Scarlett Johansson by the way ) and husband of Kate Capshaw . I feel that he simply was too old for the role to be really credible in it . However Sean Connerey is of course a great actor and that is the only reason why he is still able to carry the movie as good as he does . But he of course is helped by a very solid supporting cast that consists out of actors like Laurence Fishburne , Blair Underwood , Ned Beatty , Hope Lange , Lynne Thigpen and Ed Harris . All actors are really good but some of them are highly underused at the same time , which is a real shame , as well as a missed opportunity . Especially Ed Harris is just totally great in his role as a psychopathic serial killer . He's truly chilling and acting superbly . Normally he doesn't play this ruthless , chilling sort of roles in movies , so he really surprises with his role in this one . His performance alone is already more than enough reason to watch this movie . However due to the fact that the story is told without much style and too formulaic , none of the characters in the movie really work out well because it feels all too distant . It really is the way of storytelling that kills all the movie its fine potential . Arne Glimcher directs the movie with little style and keeps the pace too low at times . Because of this , we as viewers , never really get involved with the story or any of it's characters . It really is too bad , for " Just Cause " had more than enough potential . A fine cast and a slick story with some unexpected twists and turns in it in which nothing is what it seems . The cast and story are the only reason why this movie is still an above average thriller , that will probably still please the fan of the genre . It however is an eternal shame that the movie is lacking in its story telling and style , or else this movie could had been a real classic in its genre .
Has some great moments but overall is a bit too simple movie .	This is a Laurel & Hardy comedy short with some great and funny moments but overall the movie relies a bit too much on just one comical premise . The comical premise this movie mostly relies on is very simple ; Stan Laurel not wearing any pants . Laurel plays a Scottish naive young person who arrives in America in full kilt . For some reason he gets the center of attention because of this and his uncle played by Oliver Hardy thinks because of this that its time to put some pants on Philip . Its humor is well executed but the main premise also gets a bit tiresome after a while . Although the movie definitely still has its comical great moments , it at the same time is also far from the best of the many Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts that are still around . The movie is simply too simple to be considered one of the greatest , although it definitely is most fine executed all , for most part . Great good clean fun , just nothing too remarkable or memorable all .
Not my favorite . I would had preferred less story and more slapstick .	" Way Out West " is far from my favorite Laurel & Hardy movie . That of course doesn't mean it's bad , it just means that it's lacking compared to other better Laurel & Hardy movies . Call me old fashioned but I more prefer the simple slapstick comical approach of Laurel & Hardy . Although of course this movie still has some slapstick moments in it , it is mostly filled with humorous dialog and comical situations that aren't necessarily slapstick-like . All of the comical events in the movie are also far too stretched out . Some of the humorous moments go on for too long , with as a result that it looses some of its power when it comes to creating laughs . The musical numbers also feel misplaced . Still , the Laurel & Hardy dance is a classic to watch though . The main essence of the movie is on its story , which makes the humor seem as a secondary element . For me watching Laurel & Hardy movie isn't about the story of the movie , it's about the humor and the chemistry of the two main characters . James Finlayson is always good in a Laurel & Hardy movie and he does provide some good moments and laughs . It's a good movie to watch with some nice laughs in it and there are obviously more good things than bad things about this movie but still I don't feel that this is the must-see that everyone makes it sound it is .
The magic is still here but still a somewhat weaker movie , compared to the other Lethal Weapon movies .	Even though this is in my opinion the weakest out of the Lethal Weapon series , that of course doesn't mean that this movie isn't fun and entertaining to watch . It suffers from the same minor flaws as the previous 2 Lethal Weapon movies . The story is incredibly simple , standard action material . It's totally uninteresting and also told in a totally uninteresting way . Also the villain is yet again heavily underused . But it's true that none of the Lethal Weapon movies have ever relied on its story . Instead the movie heavily relies on its two main character ; Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh . And when you have two such characters like Riggs and Murtaugh , who have such an amazing chemistry together , you just don't need much else to make a good and entertaining movie . Unfortunately the movie does nowhere live up to its fantastic and memorable beginning . Everything that happens after the opening sequence isn't really that interesting or memorable . The movie doesn't always have the right pace and the way the story is presented make it seem even less interesting than it is on paper . The movie is filled with some great characters next besides to the two main leads . Joe Pesci returns as Leo Getz and Rene Russo joins the team as a woman who knows how to take care of herself . The villain is this time played by the always great Stuart Wilson . It however is unfortunate that all of these characters are given too little screen time , especially Joe Pesci and Stuart Wilson . All of the Lethal Weapon movies always had great villains , that were also at the same time always heavily underused . Same goes for Wilson in this particular case , who's talent is practically wasted . But luckily the movie is still of course a perfectly entertaining one . This is absolutely thanks to Mel Gibson and Danny Glover , who still have the magic chemistry together , after already 2 Lethal Weapon movies . The two of them provide some great and hilarious moments together , that alone is reason enough why this movie is a good and enjoyable one to watch . Maybe not as good - but certainly just as entertaining as all of the other Lethal Weapon movies .
Fun Miss Marple whodunit .	This is an excellent lighthearted murder mystery movie , with the Agatha Christie creation Miss Marple as the central character . This movie is typically British ! The characters , the settings , the costumes , the dialog , the humor . Everything in the movie has British written all over it . It's delicious ! It's an unwritten rule for the fans , that how Britisher the murder mystery , the better it is . The movie is told with a large and typical amount of British humor . It makes the movie a fun one to watch , also thanks to the perfectly suiting musical score by Ron Goodwin . Due to the way the story is told , the whole plot line of who is the murderer becomes a bit muddled in and isn't the most interesting thing about the movie . It's way more interesting to think of WHY the murder ( s ) were committed rather then by who and how . This movie therefor isn't perhaps the best example of a good British whodunit movie but it's a fun and lighthearted one to watch nevertheless . So there are still plenty of reasons why one should watch this movie . Margaret Rutherford is in her element as the old , nosy and clever lady Miss Marple . The movie is supported by a cast that perhaps is not the best example of the best actors around but it sorts of suits the movie fine . After all the actors serve their purpose and play the characters well enough without claiming too much attention or straining of the main story . After all this is a Miss Marple movie . The entire movie is build around her character and she is also the very reason why this movie is better than the average one . A very fun and good movie , at least for the genre fans that is .
Good court drama .	A good court drama / thriller with all the typical cliches but also some original moments and a good ending . Courtroom movies aren't known to be exciting and " Presumed Innocent " can't be called exciting either but still it is above average mainly thanks to some good storytelling and directing . Only problem is that it at times tries to be more than a court drama , which does not always work successfully . Harrison Ford seemed to feel comfortable in his role , my only problem with him was his weird hair cut . Raul Julia was absolutely fantastic in his role and made the movie so much more interesting to me . A nice movie to watch but you have to be in the right mood for it .
About as good as a trailer for a non-existing movie can get .	" World's Finest " is an unique project . It's a trailer for a Superman / Batman crossover movie that doesn't exists and will also never exists , at least not in this form , with these characters , actors and plot line anyway . So the movie is one big tease , even more than standards everyday real movie trailers . The trailer will hype you all up for nothing . In that regard , I really didn't liked this short project . When watching this trailer it makes you hungry and excited for more and at the same time sad - and perhaps you'll even feel cheated afterward , when it turns out that a full length movie of this trailer will never exist at all . Sort of makes you wonder why this project was made in the first place . Surely to show off Sandy Collora's skills but couldn't he had also done this with a real movie short , like his earlier movie " Batman : Dead End " . But when you have to judge this short purely for what it is , so from a movie technical point of view , it's a really great one . It's great looking and way more professional than you'll perhaps at first would expect , although the people who've already seen " Batman : Dead End " will already know better than to expect a short with cardboard sets , cheap homemade costumes and third-rate actors . The short is not constantly impressive looking and obviously the budget wasn't sky-high but for most part it's very impressive and professional looking , with nice costumes , sets , special effects , cinematography and lighting . The short has a good quick and typical trailer build up , with perhaps a bit too many posing shots too completely find it credible but hey , it works well for the trailer style . It has some impressive shots but also a couple of lame ones , mainly the Superman flying sequences . It was obvious that the guy was just standing at a moving car , with a camera aimed at him from an angle below . I even found it a pretty laughable thing to watch . But really the better and more spectacular moments really compensate for this . Michael O'Hearn seemed like a pretty good Superman / Clark Kent , although he obviously isn't the greatest talented actor around . Clark Bartram reprises his Batman role well again and Kurt Carley seemed like an awesome Lex Luthor . The rest of the cast also served its purpose well enough . It's especially interesting to watch this short after the recent new modern reinterpretations of the two main superheroes of this movie , in the movies " Batman Begins " and " Superman Returns " . It's interesting to compare the style and character treatment of those movies with this one . It's actually amazing and fun to hear how much Kurt Carley does sound like Kevin Spacey , the actor who played Lex Luthor in " Superman Returns " . It's a good looking and well made and constructed trailer that however will makes you hungry for more , even though you know that there won't be more . Whatever happened to the Waner Bros . plans to create an actual full length Superman / Batman movie by the way ? I thought that developments were underway for it a couple of years ago but nothing has been heard of it ever since . Instead two new separate Batman and Superman movies were made ; " Batman Begins " and " Superman Returns " .
Some mixed feelings about this one .	Having watched " Love : The Movie " I'm not to sure what to think of it . Even though I was entertained by it , it overall left me an empty expression . Even though the intentions were good , the movie was just pointless to watch . The story is not really clever enough to be really funny , the movie had more potential really . Maybe a longer running time would had helped ? Yet the movie remains entertaining to watch and therefor still is perfectly watchable . And don't be fooled by its running time people . It is said that this short is 9 minutes long but almost halve of that time is taken by the end credits . Yes , I felt kind of cheated afterward . So the final verdict is ; Perfectly Watchable but not recommendable . You won't feel any better or worse after seeing this film .
A movie that knows how to entertain !	This movie is nothing too great , it's just some good old fashioned entertainment . The movie has a decent adventurous story that features all of the needed ingredients . It features the search for a treasure , rivaling parties and of course a fair maiden . It's no swashbuckler but it's not like it's a boring movie or anything . It's fast paced and always moving . It also features some nice action and battle sequences . Especially once the Vikings reach the land of the Moors , who are under the command of no one less than Sidney Poitier . When you think of Sidney Poitier you just don't think of a movie such as this one . He plays a sort of over-the-top villainous role and I bet he had a lot of fun doing so . But no , non of the actors give their finest performance out of their career but that is of course customary for a movie such as this , that is purely made for entertainment and not to sweep any awards or anything . It's a good looking movie with convincing sets and costumes and of course the unavoidable miniature effects . Especially for 1964 standards , this movie is fairly grand and expensive looking . There are not made that many adventurous entertaining movie about Vikings in the first place , so in that regard this movie is already something different and special from other entertaining adventurous genre movies . No doubt that the bad , brutal , barbaric kind of reputation of the Vikings in history is the reason why Hollywood has never really had the guts to make lots of more entertaining movies about them . It's above all a fun entertaining to watch . Hard to understand why this movie isn't any better known or appreciated . The movie succeeds at what it tries to achieve and it certainly is not worse than similar genre movies from the same period .
Great performance's but not really that powerful as a movie .	With all respect but why should we care about a lying little young criminal ? That was the biggest problem I had with this movie , I could not care for the main character . Therefor the movie wasn't as powerful to me as people made me believe it would be . Yet " Boys Don't Cry " is a good watchable movie thanks to a very believable Hilary Swank . Even though we get to see her fully nude ( don't hold your breath fan boys , her nude scene's are most definitely not erotic . ) , you would still belief it if it was said she was a real boy . Still I think that Chloë Sevigny performance was surprisingly even better . What the character's relationship's with each other are was completely unclear to me . Who's who's brother sister , father , husband , mother or friend is completely unclear to me which made the movie hard to follow for me at times . OK , I should admit that I was a bit tired while watching this movie ( Had worked very hard this week ) , so maybe things will be clearer to me when watching this movie again . Fact remains that the story is not told in the best way . Even though the movie is based on a true story , the ending still comes out of the blue and it isn't really clear ' why ' the things at the ending happened . Still the love story in the movie works , as well as the movie it's message ; Dare to be yourself . It's just that all of it isn't as powerful as it could had been . Still perfectly recommendable for Swank and Sevigny's performance's .
Entertaining movie and definitely better than expected .	Motion capture movie making is of course still in its very early stages . It shows some potentials for the future of film-making but it's not really good enough at this moment to make a great and convincing movie with . Still the most convincing computer animated movie was " Final Fantasy : The Spirits Within " and that movie proved to be so costly that the studio went bankrupt soon after the movie its release . Who knows , maybe in 10 years from now it will be perfected and people will be able to make this type of movies faster and cheaper and above all also better . I'm actually looking forward to the day they start making movies with the likenesses of already deceased actors , complete with voice impersonating techniques . Wishful futuristic thinking or the future of film-making ? Who knows , time will tell , although I'm sure that there always be need and demand for actors and ' normal ' film-making , so all those crew and actors wont ever have to go back to school to learn a different profession . " Beowulf " is already a big step up from Robert Zemeckis his previous motion capture movie attempt " The Polar Express " but still it also suffers from the same problems . It still remains hard to bring the right emotions to the screen on the character's faces and their skins look way too smooth and perfect to consider the look a full 100 % realistic . And overall the movie really makes you think at times why did they have to make this movie completely computer animated ? Couldn't they had done basically just as good with live action movie making techniques with live real actors in front of the camera ? Overall the look of the movie is good but at times it still feels as if you're watching a cut scene of a Playstation game . Especially during some of the action sequences . Of course the beauty of computer animated movies is that you can go just as far and over-the-top with its action as you want to , since there are no limitations to its possibilities . Notmally I'm not a big fan off silly over-the-top action in animated movies but in this case it didn't bothered me since it seemed to suit the story and the character of Beowulf right . It also makes this movie more or less look like a ' children's ' movie , which " Beowulf " definitely is not . While it looks seem to be made for the younger ones , the story is definitely one for adults . And also the movie features quite an amount of graphic violence . But of course a movie is not all about its looks . The story of Beowulf seems like a pretty entertaining and strong story on its own . However this movie gives you the feeling that it isn't giving you halve of its story . At times the movie makes to big leaps into time , which makes you wonder what happened in between . It was as if they ran out of time or money or both halve way through the production of the movie , which forced them to cut a large portion of its story . It therefor isn't the most coherent movie to watch but this only becomes more of a problem in its last part . The most part of the movie and its story does entertain but it also knows to build some more depth and brings some layers into the story , that focuses on the nature of mankind . It doesn't all work out and not as effective as it could had but the right intentions for it are definitely there . Some of the possibilities of motion capture movie making already shows in the look of its characters . Ray Winstone is a far from muscular or heroic looking actor but thanks to the wonders of technique he looks like the perfect super human with amazing strength . On the other hand some actors look the same way as they do in real life , such as Anthony Hopkins , John Malkovich , Brendan Gleeson and Angelina Jolie , which again in a different way also shows the possibilities of computer animated movies . Still I hope that Robert Zemeckis will also return to ' normal ' film-making again . His last ' normal ' movie " Cast Away " already dates back from 2000 . Don't forget that this is the guy that once brought us the Back to the Future-trilogy , " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " , " Forrest Gump " , " Contact " and the earlier mentioned " Cast Away " , among many other great movies . We need some more movies like that Robert ! He already however is working on another motion capture movie at the moment , " A Christmas Carol " , based of course on the famous Charles Dickens novel . Nevertheless " Beowulf " remains a perfectly watchable entertaining movie for in between to watch .
An entertaining movie but hardly Capra's best .	Sorry to say but this movie is just a bit too overrated . Especially Capra's directing is disappointing , since it's done in such an extremely old fashioned manner for 1934 standards . Surprisingly enough he still won an Oscar for his directing of this movie though . It's definitely an entertaining enough movie to watch . These type of movies were the romantic comedies of the ' 30's , the sort of Cameron Diaz and Asthon Kutcher flicks of their time , only done with more class and better actors involved . Nevertheless it's just as clichéd and predictable though . Dozens of these type of movies got made in the ' 30's and quite frankly I just can't see what it is that makes this movie a better one than any of them . It's a boy meets girl story and of course they can't get along at first but slowly begin to like each other better and more . What makes this movie its story more special is its adventurous elements being thrown in . It's a movie that involves lots of traveling and therefor also many different characters , which mainly gives the movie its adventurous feeling , without ever really getting a big adventure . More fireworks was to be expected , especially from Frank Capra's directing . It's just too formulaic and at times even just plain poor . It's way too old fashioned for 1934 and it's one of those typical movies that features long close-ups for the dramatic moments . It's a very static made film , as if it was just a job that had to be done and no real passion was thrown into it . As could be expected , the acting is still great though , from Clark Gable and the much more unknown Claudette Colbert . They were good together and luckily shared some good chemistry , which made the movie all the more fun to watch . This was actually the movie that earned Clark Gable his only Oscar out of his career . Ironicly enough non of the actors really enjoyed starring in this movie and also lots of well known actor turned the script down and Claudette Colbert , who also received an Oscar for her role in this movie , even didn't took the trouble to attend the award ceremony at first , until hearing upon her win . Yes , I know I'm making the movie sound horrible , which it really isn't . It's basically a movie I enjoyed watching but is no way worthy of this currently high rating on here . There are way better genre movies and Capra movies , with a much lower rating on here though . There are better and more interesting Capra movies to watch out there , which does not mean that this movie is an horrible one though .
Nicely done but uninteresting story .	This movie is a worthy last Hammer entry in the Frankenstein series and a worthy last Hammer movie for director Terence Fisher . The movie is made with quite some skill and solid acting performances but the story doesn't ever really become interesting . What fun it was to see Peter Cushing as Baron Frankenstein and David Prowse as The Creature in this one together . They later went on playing Grand Moff Tarkin and Darth Vader in " Star Wars " . Just imaging seeing Tarkin stitching Darth Vader together from several different body parts ! Want to see this ? Then go and watch this movie . The cast was really acting well in this . Besides Peter Cushing there are some solid performances from Shane Briant , a fairly unknown British actor and Bernard Lee ( M from the James Bond movies . ) . David Prowse was also convincing as the large powerful creature , it's too bad that his make-up makes him look like an over-sized monkey . The effects look fairly acceptable and there is actually quit some blood and gore in this one , so fans of those two things will also be fairly satisfied . Like most Hammer movies , it never gets scary but it has a brilliant atmosphere and some well placed British humor and crazy characters . I mean the movie is set in an insane asylum , so plenty of good laughs about some of the characters here ! That transvestite absolutely cracked me up ! It really is a shame that the movie never ever really becomes interesting , mysterious or tense . Basically nothing happens in the first hour and the second halve of the movie also isn't quite good enough to leave a big impression . Still the movie is not bad , not bad at all . Cushing's presence alone is already enough to make the movie worth watching and so does the typical Hammer movie atmosphere which I absolutely love . I find this movie highly recommendable , just don't expect to be blown away by it .
Fun entertaining movie .	This is a great fun , adventurous , mystery movie , with also supernatural elements in it , which focuses on a very young Sherlock Holmes , solving his very first crime . It never has been a big secret that director Barry Levison is a Steven Spielberg admirer . Spielberg's hand as a producer is definitely notable in this movie . It features the same adventurous elements and humor , that were also always featured in his earlier movies . For instance some of the sequences and moments in this movie really reminded me mostly of the first two Indiana Jones movies , which he already had made before this movie . I also liked the use of shadows within the movie , most likely also touch from Spielberg , who is a Michael Curtiz fan . Some of the sequences within this movie are an obvious reference to the work of Curtiz . Also quite fun to notice that the touch of writer Chris Colombus was notable . Some elements show some remarkable similarities to the earliest Harry Potter movies , on which Colombus worked as a director . But I also have to admit that the movie its story , written by Chris Columbus , was rather simplistic . It doesn't take away the fact that this is still a fun movie to watch , but it at the same time also prevents the movie from being a truly great one . As the movie progresses it's pretty obvious to where the movie is heading . So there are no real surprises and it's pretty clear from the beginning on who are the true good and bad guys of the movie . It's also true that in the end the movie is just a bit too supernatural , which goes at the expenses of the credibility of the movie and story . The movie is good looking , with a nice pleasant and historic atmosphere all over it and good looking sets and costumes . The movie further more also features the very first to have a completely CGI character . How is that for movie history ? The effects were already great looking , which also goes for most of the other effects in this movie . The musical score by Bruce Broughton is truly great ! It's amazing how this guy has never gotten more big projects . He's even an one time Oscar-nominee after all ! His last big ' project ' was the movie " Lost in Space " , from 1998 . The acting of the movie isn't much special . No wonder non of the young actors ever quite made it in the movie world . There are some good and interesting secondary characters , but those get mostly pushed toward the background . So , the movie is perhaps focusing a bit too much on just the main character , which is also understandable , considering the icon that Sherlock Holmes is . It's a great fun , simplistic little movie to watch , as long as your expectations for it aren't too big .
Has some hints of a great movie in it but overall it's mostly average .	In a way this movie has some wasted potential in it . It's not like this is an horrible movie to watch but with such a fine original concept ( for its time ) , the movie truly could had been a much better - and way more fascinating one . The movie now doesn't always work out due to its writing , that isn't always convincing , even though it still at all times remains a good perfectly and watchable movie . It's concept already provide the movie with a certain dark and moody atmosphere , which gets strengthened by its real fine and effective cinematography , that seems just perfect for this type of movie with its mystery and thriller elements , that mostly rely on the movie its atmosphere . I also surprisingly much liked the musical score for the movie . Roy Webb isn't that well known as most other composers from the same era but he truly made some great stuff throughout his career and also worked with some big name directors like Jacques Tourneur , Robert Wise and Alfred Hithcock . It's a bit of a too old fashioned movie , in the way it got made . You can blame the inexperienced director Mark Robson for this , who with this movie made his directorial debut . He directed this movie like an ' 30's movie , while this movie itself got made in 1943 . I haven't seen that many movies directed by him but his movie always seem to be minimalistic ones . He could make and tell a story with limited resources and without too much happening in the actual movie itself . This was a quality by him that often provided his movies with some strong and memorable sequences but at the same time also kept all of his movies on the level of being average ones , or ones slightly above that . The movie would had perhaps also been a better one with some better actors in it . Kim Hunter , who made her movie debut with this movie , was only in her early 20's at the time , plays the real main character of the movie but her character just never really becomes you care about , fore her character constantly looks scared and shy . Sure , the movie still has Tom Conway but not as much as his billing might suggest . All in all it still remains a good and moody movie to watch and it has some moments of greatness in it but overall the movie as a whole doesn't reach the level of true greatness , due to its writing and old fashioned way of directing style , which was a bit too distracting all .
It deserves credit for it's style alone .	" Romeo + Juliet " is a daring movie . The idea of making a " hip " version of the classic Shakespeare story set in present time might sound strange and like a bad idea to say the last . However it works surprising well and effective and for this alone the movie and director Baz Luhrmann deserve credit . The power of the movie is in the unique style . It seems unusually in the beginning but once you are used to it you will notice how wonderful it works and makes the movie in a way an unique visual little masterpiece with wonderful sets and costumes . The acting is good . Especially Leonardo DiCaprio , Pete Postlethwaite and Paul Sorvino are great . Also the chemistry between Leonardo DiCaprio and Claire Danes is good and makes the love story work . There is a real spark between those two . Still the movie has it's flaws and at times the style is simply too much and too weird and to be honest the movie is a bit too short . Not a great movie but watchable and recommendable for its style alone .
Carter gets personal .	Yep , this is a ' 70's movie alright . It has an unmistakable ' 70's style and atmosphere , with some great camera-work and some small scaled but spectacularly shot action . It also isn't the easiest to watch or easiest to follow movie though , which I found a disappointing aspect of the movie . Thing with " Get Carter " is , is that so many sequences make a redundant impression . While watching it you don't really realize it and wait for something to happen but when a sequence is over and it didn't contributed much to the movie and it's story , you'll feel sort of cheated . Yes , I know , this sort of is also part of ' 70's film-making and its style but it just didn't made " Get Carter " always the most pleasant movie to watch . Not really the directing or writing its fault . It has a solid story and some tight directing by Mike Hodges . It isn't really an usual crime movie , in which the man character starts blasting everyone away . Instead the movie is more personal and humane and shows a realistic character , dealing with some tough personal situations when his brother dies and he starts to suspect it was foul play . It of course also helps that the main character is being played by Michael Caine , who is of course still successful now days but perhaps did his best work in the ' 70's and even prior to that . Amazing once you start thinking about the career this man had and still has actually . From playing tough guys and lady-killers early in his career to playing kind old men in his later movies , such as for instance he does now in the new Christopher Nolan Batman movies , as the butler Alfred . A good ' 70's movie , just not the easiest or most pleasant one to watch .
Great subject but not so great execution of it , though the movie is definitely above average .	This could had been a good and relevant movie to watch but instead the movie remains stuck somewhere between entertaining and poorly told . The movie is about the interesting story of about establishment of the State of Israel in 1948 . It isn't the best known piece of history , mostly because it still was overshadowed by the aftermath of WW II , of which the establishment of the State of Israel was also a direct result . Yet it isn't a subject much handled in movies , compared to other subject from the same time period . But the story is mostly interesting and intriguing to learn about . Also to see how little has actually changed for the Israeli situation , even till this date . Too bad that this movie just can't really be regarded as one of the best sources about this subject . The movie is too poorly told for that . The movie make some mistakes by putting in some needless plot lines and characters , which make the movie drag and overlong at times . It also lets the movie start of too slow and it isn't exactly clear from the beginning on what the movie is going to be about and were it is heading to . It makes the movie feel like it's 3 hours long , though in reality it isn't . Judging by looking at this movie it seemed like they thought that they were making the new " Lawrence of Arabia " and the choose a same kind of approach with it's storytelling and character treatments . It however isn't halve as brilliant obviously . The movie also has a totally misplaced love ( triangle ) story , though that of course was the curse of about ever genre movie from the ' 50's and ' 60's . Basically all of the actors have Jewish roots . The obviously starred in the movie for personal and moralistic reason . I don't know but it just gives the movie a sort of misplaced and biased feeling of that what they were creating here was something totally important , relevant and brilliant . Not that there is anything wrong with the actual acting of course . Kirk Douglas always have been a great leading man and the supporting cast is one to die for . Angie Dickinson plays a bit of an ungrateful role but Yul Brynner and Topol show up in some good roles . Also no one less than John Wayne and Frank Sinatra make an appearance . All criticism about the story and storytelling aside , this movie still has some good redeeming qualities . The movie definitely gets better in its second halve when the poor formulaic drama makes place for what the story is truly about . It makes the story and drama become more solid and therefor also the movie to become more interesting to watch . The movie also features some good battle sequences , so the fans of ' old ' war movies will also get pleased , though this all occurs pretty late into the movie . The movie is probably more ' entertaining ' than educational and interesting but that's not really a bad thing of course . Nevertheless , the subject deserved a better treatment .
The main problem already is in the movie's title .	This movie is so patriotic that it's not even funny anymore . I mean when the main character is literally fighting the English with an American flag , then you know that it can't get any more patriotic as this . Yet the movie is made with lots of profession and is still eye candy and entertaining to watch . The movie is not as heavy to watch as " Braveheart " but is still full with many epic battlefields of the same proportion . The balance of drama and spectacular scene's is fairly well and acceptable , with the exception of some needless plot lines that only waste time and the same goes for some of the characters . I have some mixed feeling about the story . The movie begins dramatic with Mel Gibson as a family man that is still coping with the loss of his wife , then it suddenly starts to focus much more on his oldest son ( Heath Ledger ) and finally for most parts on the war of independence . The way the story is told is not always good or logical . Another problem with the movie is Mel Gibson . A lot of complaints were that he played to much of the same character as he did in " Braveheart " . I experienced this the same way back in 2000 when I saw " The Patriot " in the theater . Basically what I saw was an American William Wallace fighting for freedom . But yes I must admit that now 4 years later this hardly is a complaint anymore . Jason Isaacs once again was a pleasure to watch . His character was an incredibly stereotyped bad guy but he is such a great actor with such a great villain look that he actually made the character an enjoyable villain . Biggest surprise for me was Chris Cooper . Now , I know that nobody is going to believe me for saying this but I already felt back in 2000 that this guy would some day win an Oscar , something that happened in the year 2003 for his role in " Adaptation " . The cinematography by Caleb Deschanel is wonderful and so is John Williams musical score , which both got nominated for an Academy Award along with Kevin O'Connell , Greg P . Russell and Lee Orloff for the category best sound . You'll most likely appreciate this movie much better if you are a ( patriotic ) American . For those people I rate this movie an . For everybody else this movie is nothing more as an entertaining movie without any memorable scene's or deeper meaning . For this majority I rate this movie an :
One of the most original thrillers in recent years .	" One Hour Photo " uses an original concept and has an original approach . The story is about real-life and real-life characters . The thriller elements in the movie don't really ever feel forced and the movie actually has a pretty realistic atmosphere and certain tension . It's mainly thanks to the actors that the movie works out this way . Guess that no one ever really thought about it but the guy who develops your photos for years , knows more about you and your personal life than you would really want to . This movie shows what can happen if a developer gets obsessed with your personal life and feels that he is - or at least should be a part of your ' normal ' life . I'm probably making the movie sound more ' thriller-like ' than it in fact is . Yes , " One Hour Photo " is a thriller but not one with constant suspension or an haunting atmosphere . This is probably due to the approach of the movie , that is original and refreshing but also is a killer for the much needed formulaic thriller ingredients . The main character of the movie is the ' psychophate ' himself . Instead of seeing him as a monster , you can't help feeling compassion for him . Sy Parrish is a lonely guy but kind guy and everything that he has in the world is his job . He has never been married and is probably a single all his life and he has no family . His loneliness and sadness becomes very sensible in the movie and you really start to feel compassion for the character and want him to be happy . In that regard " One Hour Photo " is probably a better dramatic character movie than a thriller . It's absolutely thanks to Robin Williams that the main character works out so well in the movie . He's highly convincing in this serious role . Somewhat of course he very rarely ever plays . He really is the one that carries the movie and here is also were one of the problems of the movie lays . All of the other characters are pushed to the back . It doesn't make the story work out as powerful and tense as it could had been . The Yorkin's are a pretty good movie-family but their fears and their reactions toward the weird - and behavior of Sy at certain points of the movie gets highly underdeveloped . It's probably the reason why it isn't the most effective thriller around , though it's absolutely an original and great one to watch . The storytelling is for most part good . It takes its time to draw out the character and set up the situations . It shows how the character slowly slips from being obsessed , to being a dangerous and psychotic stalker , when things are turning against him . It's definitely true that the movie goes a bit overboard toward the ending when everything happens fast and there is build up to an ending that just can't life up to its build up . It's definitely a well directed movie with a good visual style and some great shot and effective sequences , though Mark Romanek obviously still has a lot of learning to do . But the basis is here already notable in the movie and the basis is real good , so that promises a lot for his future movies . Highly recommendable due to its originality and performances from the cast but just don't watch this movie expecting a tense stalker-thriller , that will bring you to the edge of the seat .
Fun Universal monster mash movie , with some classic horror characters and actors and of course Bud Abbott and Lou Costello .	In my opinion this movie can definitely be seen as a sequel to other Unveriscal classic movies such as ; " Dracula " , " Frankenstein " , " Bride of Frankenstein " , " Dracula's Daughter " , " Son of Frankenstein " , " The Wolf Man " , " The Ghost of Frankenstein " , " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " , " Son of Dracula " , " House of Frankenstein " and " House of Dracula " . It does not only feature the same character and actors , it also follows and continues some of these plot lines even though obviously this movie is more spoofing and comical , the reason why it's debatable whether or not this movie is canon . Of course there is not really much to the story here and why should there be ? All the ingredients to make this is a good and fun movie are already pleasant ; the two comical actors Bud Abbott and Lou Costello and the classic horror movie stars Bela Lugosi , Lon Chaney Jr . and Glenn Strange . In the end Vincent Price even makes an ' appereance ' as The Invisible Man . Lugosi for the second and last time plays the movie famous blood sucking vampire ; Count Dracula . He does this with just as much passion as the first time and even manages to handle the comical dialog in a good way , with his crazy accent . Lon Chaney Jr . reprises his role as Lawrence Talbot / The Wolf Man . Glenn Strange once more plays the Frankenstein creature . I've always found Strange's Frankenstein's creature performances to be an underrated one . He plays the monster in the same way as Karloff did . Too bad that his character gets way underused in this movie . Weird , especially considering that this movie is named Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet FRANKENSTEIN . Chaney Jr . and Lugosi play a far bigger role in this than Strange does . The movie has some good comical moments in it mixes this all perfectly with the classic monster movie ingredients , without being disrespectful about it . The humor mostly works in my opinion thanks to Lou Costello , who really steals the show in this movie with his comical performance . His character is the most entertaining , has the best lines and he has the silliest actions . The movie is good looking with its sets , costumes , make-up and cinematography . The movie does a good job at recreating the horror atmosphere from the ' 30's movies . Nevertheless I feel that this movie is always being slightly overrated . Other Unverisal monster mash movies work just as good or even better as entertainment . Movies such as ; " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " and " House of Frankenstein " . It's a different kind of ' fun ' but they in my opinion work better in terms of entertainment . Nevertheless , this movie is of course also still perfectly fun to watch . Fun and well worth to watch , especially if you're familiar with either " Dracula " , " Frankenstein " , " Bride of Frankenstein " , " Dracula's Daughter " , " Son of Frankenstein " , " The Wolf Man " , " The Ghost of Frankenstein " , " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " , " Son of Dracula " , " House of Frankenstein " and / or " House of Dracula " .
Really not a bad prison movie .	This movie doesn't really offer anything new or spectacular but it does provide a good qualitatively 70 minutes . It's your standard prison drama in which most of the formulaic ingredients are present but this time also with a love-story mixed in . The story is perhaps not the most interesting or refreshing but it is told in a good way . The pace of the movie is high and obviously made by experienced professionals . The editing is a bit offbeat and weird at times and the action and ending is rather weak but nevertheless " San Quentin " remains a perfectly watchable movie , thanks to the professional cast & crew involved . The movie has a solid cast . Pat O'Brien plays the leading role very well and he really makes the character work . Also great was Humphrey Bogart , from the period when he was not yet a leading man in Hollywood movies . The most other characters remain rather flat and blank but this was often the case in movies from the ' 30's . Of course prison movie set in the ' 30's are the most interesting to watch , when convicts still wore those great uniforms and guards where known as brutal animals who weren't afraid of using their weapons . This movie is set in that period and although this movie is not an heavy or dramatic one , it still makes this movie a better than average one , thanks to the time period it is set in . It's not an essential viewing . The movie is too dry , simple and short for that . However when you do watch this movie , you won't regret it . It's well made entertainment and has some excellent actors in it .
Great comedy / drama mix	What a pleasant surprise this little movie was . A couple of nights ago I was really bored because as always , there was nothing on TV . Then suddenly I came across this movie . . . The mix of drama and comedy is daring but it really works very well . The balance between the drama and comedy is excellent and the movie can be touching and dramatic as well as hilarious . Nice acting , directing and a good script make this movie worth seeing . Not a must see but still worth your time .
Quality entertainment .	This is basically some great nonsense to watch . It has an almost non-existent story , crazy action and a fast pace . It's the sort of movie that purely entertains and give you a good time , without trying to achieve anything else . Producer and writer Luc Besson's touch is definitely notable throughout the movie . It has the same sort of humor , pace and overall style as his directed movies . It's the sort of entertainment he himself could had directed . The movie is filled with some big fat deliberately overdone action sequences . It's done in such an overdone way that it becomes part of the comical aspects of the movie . On top of that the action , driving and the stunts are good and professional looking . Yes it - and the story are quite formulaic but it's executed in such a refreshing and fun way that it becomes original nevertheless . It's really one of those movies in which the story gets pushed to the back and you don't care about that . The story really is quite thin and not that well written but this in no way harms the movie or its entertainment value . It's definitely way better than the failed Hollywood remake with the same name . It didn't seemed to understand what it was that made this movie so entertaining to watch and it totally missed the mark in terms of entertainment . A recommendable fun simple movie .
Well written but too much of a chick flick for my taste .	You can regard this movie as an ' 40's chick flick that has a story of a typical romantic-dramatic novel , women love to read . It has all of the ingredients you could expect , like true love , friendship and rivalry . It has not just a triangular love story but its even more complicated than that . It's all well constructed though but this nevertheless doesn't mean I can regard this movie as being something different than a chick flick . The story truly saved this movie for me , or else it would had been a real dreadful one to watch . It has all of the typical clichés women seem to care about but as a man it just isn't all as compelling to watch . The story is solid and keeps you interested throughout . The love stories are original since it doesn't always picks the easiest road to walk on . Marriage and friendships turn bitter and characters are changing throughout . I like movies in which its characters are slowly but steadily changing into someone different . It also is of course thanks to the acting that this all works out so well , even though the dialog and directing style are all extremely old fashioned . But oh well , this is of course consistent and normal for the genre . In the ' 40's director Leslie Arliss made several movies like this one , often with the same actors involved , without ever gaining real fame for it really . Women will surely appreciate this movie even better than I did already .
A family drama disguised as an epic material arts movie .	Basically in its core and essence the movie is on big family drama , in which every family member of the royal Chinese family has a secret to hide . The drama isn't really that interesting to follow and perhaps also feels overdone but luckily in between - and toward the ending , the movie has more than enough action to still give the movie pace , style and reasons enough to watch this movie . The movie is well directed , so the movie doesn't ever drag or becomes bad to watch , even though for a long time nothing is really happening in the movie . I mean basically the first 30 minutes of the movie are all about the empress having to drink her ' medicine ' daily , without much further story or character development . It are really two things that make this movie distinct itself from other genre movie ; It's action and the visual look of it . Well maybe 3 things if you also count the acting , that was really good in my opinion , though it always remains difficult to judge acting in a language that you don't speak yourself . The movie really is an epic in terms of its look but also definitely in terms of its action . The end battle toward the end of the movie that literally involves ten thousands of soldiers has an incredible epic feeling all over it . Also the action during the big battle does not disappoint and it's not just your average ' chop-work ' . But we are accustomed to this already , ever since the big success of " Wo hu cang long " . Also the much smaller fight sequences before the end battle are really good and impressive looking , with great choreography and nice weapons . It also isn't as over-the-top ( though it isn't exactly realistic either ) as in " Wo hu cang long " was the case , which is I think a positive thing . But the visual style is perhaps the most notable thing about the movie . The movie is very colorful and uses many bright colors , also mostly with its impressive looking costumes ( Oscar nominated ) . It also helps to make the movie a memorable viewing experience . I am normally not a big fan of this particular type of Asian cinema but after seeing this movie I wouldn't mind seeing more movies like it .
Not De Palma's best but it shows his qualities .	The Brian De Palma today isn't the Brian De Palma he used to be . Early on in his career he made some truly brilliant - and also often very underrated and under-appreciated movies . " Obsession " is one of his earlier movies , made before his big breakthrough with the movie " Carrie " . Although this movie certainly isn't among his best it's still an above average genre movie , due to De Palma's direction quality . It's obvious that the biggest influence in De Palma's work is Hitchcock . Some people call him a Hitchcock rip-off but his movies are often simply too good and classy for that . Nothing wrong with someone carrying on Hitchcock's work in a more modern day and age of film-making . De Palma's movies are often very old fashioned in their style and way of storytelling . Whenever a movie attempts to be old fashioned , like movies from the ' 40's , it often ends up being a complete failure . De Palma however often succeeds in this , as is the case - though to some less extend , with this movie . This is far from a perfect genre movie and those who are familiar with these type of movies can see the twists coming from miles away . It's a very little surprising movie that however still has plenty of qualities that uplift it . The main thing that keeps this movie down is really its story . It's rather slow ( because it's done in an old fashioned style ) and it's made even slower by its main character that looks depressed all of the time . It's hard to really care for him when he's walking around so moody all of the time . Hard to say if this is Cliff Robertson's fault , or the script or directing . Probably all three are too blame for it . It nevertheless remains a very pleasant movie to watch , due to its style . It's a real good looking movie , that with Vilmos Zsigmond also has a nice director of photography involved . It was the first collaboration between him and Brian De Palma , out of 4 movies they did together so far . The fine musical score is from Alfred Hitchcock's steady composer Bernard Herrmann , which really helps to set the right mood for this movie as well . He died shortly afterward . He was supposed to become Brian De Palma's new main composer but it unfortunately wasn't to be . The movie has some real typical trademark Brian De Palma moments in them . Sequences that make the movie great and memorable , even when the rest of the movie just isn't that great or interesting to watch . The ending is also typical De Palma-like , even though it isn't the best or most satisfying ending imaginable for the movie . It was also great to see a still fairly young John Litgow in this movie . It was one of his first movie roles and he did a great job within this movie , especially with his accent . He later also appeared in other De Palma movies , though ironically never his best known ones . A good early De Palma movie , that already shows his talent and trademark style , that made me a fan of his work , even his lesser movies .
Fun comedy with fun characters .	This is not really an ' haha ' type of comedy , its more a movie that has a fun and silly ( in a good way ) feeling all over it . The events in the movie are fun and so are the quirky characters that are in the movie . Basically the story is a fun and simple one . Rich guy played by Errol Flynn , out of a conservative uptight family , has for the first time in his real fun when he runs of with the girl Mona ( Joan Blondell ) . Along their trip the couple meets some quirky characters and get into some silly situations . It seems to me that the movie its story was inspired by the Greek Odyssey . Errol Flynn is of course perfect as ' the perfect specimen ' . I was a little bit worried about his comical talent but he pulls of rather well in this movie . All of the other actors are also fine professional comedy actors who all help to make this movie a fun , simple and non-serious one to watch . A fun movie , that is very well worth watching .
Fun well written comedy .	This is an enjoyable well written comedy that has some great comical moments in it . This is not a comedy movie that relies on the slapstick antics from Laurel & Hardy but it rather relies on its written comedy moments . It might disappoint the most hardened fans but to everyone well this should be a movie that you can find much joy and fun in . Especially when the boys have to play different characters in the movie ; Oliver is forced to play a southern gentleman named colonel Bixby and Stan has to play Aunt Emily . In those sequence it shows how great the boys actually could act . They play the different actors without much difficulties and in a convincing way . The movie is mostly carried by its story . It's not the best story ever written but it works effective for a simple little comedy movie like this one . It's well written and features some great comedy moments and situations . The movie starts to fall apart before the ending but the good beginning and fun middle compensate for this . Obvisouly not the greatest and best example of a Laurel & Hardy comedy but it's definitely better than most of their usual work from the ' 40's . Maybe if it had different actors than Laurel & Hardy in it , this movie would have a better reputation .
Surprisingly good but I had some problems with this movie .	First of all I love Tim Burton and the dark style he always manages to put in his movies but I feel that he somewhat overdid it this time , which perhaps is not as much Burton's fault but more the story's . For me the main problem with this movie was its story and then particularly its characters . There just is no good character within this movie . All of the characters are evil in a way . Sweeney Todd is supposed to be the main ' hero ' but he isn't much of a likable character , since he's a person who slices innocent people's throats . There isn't really a person to sympathize for within this movie . It's like you're watching all bad people , which in a way also somewhat makes this a depressing movie to watch . I know this certain darkness suits Tim Burton well and is part of his trademark style but I just feel he overdid it this time and it doesn't work out as well as it does in most of his other movies . He perhaps also overdid things with the movie its visuals . The movie is so stylish and done mostly in gray and black & white tints that the movie looks fake at times , as if it came straight out of a computer . The fairytale like feeling and dark Gothic atmosphere Tim Burton is so well known for is mostly missing within this movie and perhaps Burton too much tried to make this movie like an old horror movie from the black & white era . Also some of the computer effects within this movie feel pointless , mostly because of the reason that they look like they come straight out of playstation game cut scene . It's pointless and it doesn't add anything to the movie . It instead only lets the movie look even more artificial and fake then it already does . Nevertheless the movie turned out to be in a way also better than expected really . I mean a dark violent musical ? Sounds like a real odd and bad thing on paper but it's a movie that works out surprisingly well and knows to combine it's violence , images and musical moments nicely , even though I wasn't that impressed by its musical moments and not a too big fan of the movie its visuals . The story did worked out well and surprisingly , despite of its earlier mentioned flaw of not really featuring any likable characters . I must also say that out of all the Tim Burton and Johnny Depp collaborations , this is probably the least . Why ? Because Johnny Depp doesn't really feel like Johnny Depp in this movie . Perhaps it's because of the style of the movie or all of the make-up he has to act underneath but there are only a handful of great Johnny Depp moments within the movie . It's as if most of the time he is restrained , which is probably also due to the fact that he has a lot of singing to do in this movie . Sacha Baron Cohen on the other hand was really great and perfectly cast . In a way he plays more of Johnny Depp type of role than Jonny Depp played within this movie . Cohen's role is quite small though but nevertheless memorable and entertaining . Alan Rickman is also fine and so is Tim Burton's girlfriend Helena Bonham Carter , who always perfectly fits into his movies and style in particular . So , it's a movie that works out surprising well and I can also recommend it but this doesn't take away I had some problems with the movie its style and main characters .
Enjoyable musical comedy .	This is your standard musical comedy from the ' 30's , with a big plus that it features some well known ' 30's actors in small fun cameo's . There is not much to the story and basically the movie is all about its fun and ' no-worries ' overall kind of atmosphere , with a typical Hal Roach comedy touch to it . Appereantly it's a ' Cinderella story ' but I most certainly didn't thought of it that way while watching the movie . The story gets very muddled in into the storytelling , that features many different characters and also many small cameo appearance , when the main characters hit the Hollywood studios . Of course the highlight of the movie is when Laurel & Hardy make their appearance and show some of their routines . It's like watching a movie and getting a Laurel & Hardy short with it for free . Also Laurel & Hardy regular Walter Long makes an appearance in the routine and James Finlayson ( without a mustache this time ) as the director of the short . It's certainly true that all of the cameo's and subplots distract from the main plot line and character but in this case that is no problem , since its all way more fun and interesting to watch than the main plot line and the shallow typical main character . The movie is most certainly not any worse than any of its other genre movies from the same time period , though the rating on here would suggest otherwise .
Just as entertaining but not as good as the first .	Blade is back ! And unlike many other sequels this movie doesn't disappoint . The movie is just as entertaining as the first Blade movie was . However they tried a bit too hard to surpass the first movie . They added a bigger budget , a more complex story , more fancy special effects and more deadly vampires but in this case bigger is not better . . . Blade ( Wesley Snipes ) is as cool as ever . Also returning in this movie is the character Whistler ( Kris Kristofferson ) , which in my opinion was not a that good idea . I never have been a big fan of characters returning from the dead for a sequel . Added in this movie are some more cool vampires . The bloodpack is awesome especially Ron Perlman as Reinhardt of course but I also liked Tony Curran ( Priest ) and Donny Yen ( Snowman ) . The main villain might be a little bit disappointing compared to Deacon Frost from the first Blade movie but there are still some nice scene's and some spectacular fights with the main villain from this movie ; Nomak ( Luke Goss ) . Yet again it are especially the fights and action sequence's that impress although there is some overuse of special effects during some action sequences at times . Compared to the first movie , this one is more horror like which is thanks to Mexican director Guillermo del Toro who knows to create an even darker atmosphere and adds some good and gross horror scene's . Maybe not as good as the first but still very entertaining and cool . Bring on " Blade : Trinity " !
Some good fun to watch .	If you like a more subtle comedy , this is a great movie for you to watch . It features a wide variety of a bunch of odd characters and a main story situated around a dog-show . Well , to be honest , there isn't really much story in this movie actually . It's a fake documentary , or mockumentary , focusing on the world of dog-shows and their owners . The first halve of the movie mostly consists out of fake interviews with the characters about them and their dogs , while the second halve concentrates more on the travel to - and the actual dog-show . The movie is not always made credible as a fake documentary because of its way of filming , editing and overall story-telling , so the movie is more stuck somewhere between a mockumentary and just a subtle comedy . Not that this makes the movie any less fun to watch though . It's obvious director Christopher Guest tried to make his own " This Is Spinal Tap " , a movie and early fake documentary he was involved with previously as an actor , song writer , composer and writer . He also does all of those things in this movie by the way and then some more as well . It's obvious director and writer Christopher Guest let his actors do a whole lot of improvisation and gave them lots of room to play . At times he just lets the camera role and let the actors do their thing . They come up with with things at times as they just go along . Some of the actors handle this better than the others . I think this is because every actor is itself is very individualistic and want to do things their way , which is not always possible when the actors opposite you is having a monologue concerning the other actor opposite and all you can do is respond to it and just go along with the other actor . Some actors on the other do know how to handle this and go along perfectly with it , such as for instance Eugene Levy . Who must have really enjoyed his improvisations was Fred Willard , as the commentator of the big dog-show . Man , some of the stuff he says is absolute great and hilarious . The characters and the sort of not everyday and sort of odd background story of a dog-show is what makes this movie work and fun to watch . It's a real subtle sort of comedy that doesn't try to be funny in a forced way but let the actors and characters be the center of the movie its comedy instead , without trying to make them look too funny and more real and humane like , despite all of their oddness's . It's a fun in-between movie to watch , just like this was a fun in-between movie to make for the actors involved I'll bet .
An original approach on the genre but the end result is not entirely satisfying .	Especially considering the movie its concept and premise , I can't help to regard this movie as a disappointing one , even though it's still an above average genre movie from the Hammer studio . The movie and its main character might sound cool at first sight but fact is that " Captain Kronos - Vampire Hunter " isn't exactly a very terribly exciting movie , aside from some good old fashioned sword fights . Not that much happens in this movie or with its main character . In potential Captain Kronos was a cool sort of action hero but unfortunately the story doesn't give him much interesting to do . The movie at times also focuses too much on the different characters in the movie with as a result that the story strains away too much from the main character which is also one of the reasons why the main character doesn't work out well enough . Beside the main character the movie also had some interesting other characters with potential but really not one of them works out well enough to consider them interesting or likable enough . The movie however is not your average vampire flick , with blood sucking counts who live in dark castles . The movie chooses an original story instead and features some refreshingly original vampires in it . It at the same time also makes the story and movie as a whole a refreshing one that is definitely worthy seeing for the fans of the genre . The movie picks some interesting angles on the vampire legends , which does provide the movie with a couple of memorable sequences . Out of all the Hammer studio movies this is perhaps the movie with the least ' Hammer-look ' . No kitsch looking sets and props here but mostly a movie that was shot outside . It makes this movie certainly different from the other Hammer movies but at the same time that very special little Hammer touch is missing here , although the light and simple Hammer-fun is still present in the movie , The story doesn't always flow well and the movie features some at time too long moments in which nothing good or interesting happens . The movie also isn't always entirely logic , which does make the movie and it's story perhaps a bit hard to follow at certain moments . It's one of those movies with many flaws but that is yet perfectly good and fun enough to watch . Its originality and a couple of good sequences are reason enough to watch this movie and consider it to be an above average one but perhaps one for the fans only . I'm glad however ' Captain Kronos ' didn't turned into a series of movies , like was originally planned .
Good movie but definitely a case of style over substance .	No doubt that " The Illusionist " is one of the best looking movies of 2006 . Great sets , costumes , cinematography and such but the story left me mostly cold and in fact was quite poorly told and developed at times . So definitely a case of style over substance this one but what a great style it is . What I especially loved about the movie was its authentic feeling . The movie was made in fairly much the same style as back in the early days of cinema . Of course all of the sets and costumes and such also add to the authentic feeling of the overall movie . Neil Burger obviously has a love for the movies from the early days of cinema . I however found to be the story quite simplistic , with a love-story also done in about the same way as in the earliest movies . It's admirable but not really good and interesting enough for an 21th century movie . The story also doesn't bother to explain everything , which leaves a lot to the viewers its own imagination and assumptions . Its a good way to make a movie but in this case it just leaves a bit too many questions in the end . The movie is also lacking too much in proper tension , mystery and real surprises . I for one already exactly knew how this movie was going to end halve way through the movie . The story and overall movie also don't always get properly developed . It's like the movie is stuck at times and Neil Burger still has got a lot of learning to do when it comes down to telling a story exciting , intriguing and suspenseful . The story now just couldn't grab me , though I guess that in its core it had potential . Perhaps the movie felt like it was stuck at times because of the reason that the movie is mostly set at constantly the same locations , for most part . The movie also uses its special effects too much as a tool to tell the story with . It's in huge contrast with the authentic feel of the movie . It takes away some of the ' magic ' of the movie , since you just know its not real and not a real magic trick you're looking at . It also takes away some of the charm of the movie and its subject . The best action and intriguing aspect from this movie comes from Paul Giamatti as Inspector Uhl , though his character really doesn't get developed in the best way possible . His character constantly changes during the movie . At times you like him , at times he's more the villain and at times he just confuses you what his motivations are . Nevertheless , Paul Giamatti is absolutely fantastic in his role and he also shows how incredible versatile as an actor he is . I wouldn't had mind him seeing being nominated for an Oscar again for his role in this movie . But of course opposing is Edward Norton who also does more than a great job as the main character of the movie . But before I'm starting to sound too negative ; " The Illusionist " is definitely a movie worth seeing , that however is too weak and simplistic to also consider it as one of the best movie in recent years , like the current rating here at the moment might suggest it is .
Not nearly as fun as I had hoped it would be . Still an enjoyable movie to watch .	No I'm definitely not a Wes Anderson fan ( even though I certainly get and understand his style ) and I'll probably never become one . You'll either just hate his movies or just totally love it . I saw " Rushmore " and though I enjoyed it , I certainly did not loved it . " The Royal Tenenbaums " seemed like a more enjoyable and completely humor filled movie , so I decided to give it a chance . Just like " Rushmore " I enjoyed watching the movie but I wasn't always exactly fully amused and the movie did not always entertain - or was fun enough . The movie is filled with some eccentric , quirky over-the-top characters , set in a normal world . The characters are weird but they're certainly not funny . Not any of them is ever given something interesting or fun to do in this movie , which seems to be a waste , considering when looking at the cast of the movie . Ben Stiller is holding back and Bill Murray is given too little screen time to become an interesting or hilarious character . Guess that the movie also has way too many characters in it , which does begin to work distracting from each other after a while . The comedy and humor of Wes Anderson movies is always in its little and subtle things . Each sequences is carefully crafted and fully thought out . Every time you watch this movie you'll discover new fun small things set in the background or a small piece of dialog or character behavior . So I definitely understand and appreciate Anderson's style but yet I just don't enjoy it as much . Just not my type of movie and style of film-making . The entire movie is made in intro-style . So scene's rapidly follow each other and everything is build up and break down again in basically 5 minutes time . To me this is a very tiresome way of film-making that doesn't work amusing enough for me . It's good at first but it's starting to get old already after a while . Saving grace for me was Gene Hackman . He certainly added some style and power to the movie as the rude and not so subtle father of the family . In my opinion he also was the true main fun thing about the movie . Even more fun and hilarious than Bill Murray in the movie . I think that says something about the entire amusement level of the movie as a whole . In all honesty the movie did entertain me and this was mostly because of the little subtle things in the movie . As a whole , so with the characters , style and story included , the movie just didn't strike me as an perfectly amusing one . But most likely the Anderson fans shall not complain .
Return of the rubber-suit .	Despite not being too much alike , the first sequel " Revenge of the Creature " still felt a bit too much of the same after " Creature from the Black Lagoon " . " The Creature Walks Among Us " feels more fresh . So I think a change of director was not a bad choice . John Sherwood takes over the helm from Jack Arnold . He does this in the same trend as the previous tow movies but still adds enough elements of his own . The movie is more horror-like than its two predecessors . The tension gets build up well and the Gill-man isn't as prominently featured as in the second movie was the case . That was sort of what was wrong with the first sequel of the movie ; the creature played a too prominent role , which was a killer for the movie its tension and mystery . Lucklily this movie does have both tension and mystery in it . Through its build-up and atmosphere , it makes this movie a rather effective on in its genre . In his movie the creature is more being treated as a victim , rather than a cold-hearted killing monster . This approach was also tried in the previous two movies but it did not worked out as well as it does in this one . It helps you more to understand - and sympathize for him . This is the Gill-man's most personal movie ! He's more like the Frankenstein-creature in this one . The characters are rather solid in the movie , though of course you just never really start to care for them . The actors aren't among the greatest but what ' 50's B-monster movie did ever feature any award winning performances ? Of course the movie above all things still remain a B-monster movie . The Gill-man's suit is obvious fake and its story is at all times kept very simple . About halve way through the movie and story even start to become ridicules but at least its trying to be original , at least when compared to the previous sequel . The movie also manages to create some interesting side-plots , involving some of the characters . In my opinion the best of the three movies !
Tourneur turns simple movie into atmospheric horror splendor .	" I Walked with a Zombie " is actually nothing more than an average early horror movie with a simple story . Still the movie is a good one , thanks to the very atmospheric and creepy mood . The movie is very much like horror movies from the 70's , so in a way it was ahead of its time . The fact that this movie is about a zombie also indicates that it was ahead of its time . Zombie movies became extremely popular again later in the 70's . It's not the first zombie movie ( I think that was " White Zombie " from 1932 with Bela Lugosi ? ) but it certainly is one of the most memorable ones . It's pretty obvious that the movie wasn't shot in the West-Indies and it's some obvious studio work but with World War II still going on that is no wonder of course . The acting isn't really anything special and so isn't the story like I mentioned before but it is the atmosphere , with its creepy voodoo drums , that makes this movie work .
Nothing too great , just some enjoyable old fashioned fun !	Director Richard Thorpe made some good and entertaining movies in his days but never anything too remarkable or great . In that regard " Ivanhoe " is a typical Richard Thorpe movie . It's a good and well made one but by no means among the greatest or most entertaining one's , out of the genre . It's a rather enjoyable movie , that features all of the usual swashbuckler elements from the good old days ! So , expected stereotypical villains , a charming hero , a love-story and lots of sword fights and other action . It's a well made movie , that is good looking , although it all of course by todays standards look terribly outdated . The movie shows some definite parallels to the movie " The Adventures of Robin Hood " from 1938 , starring Errol Flynn . It has the same style , colors and settings . Even some of the characters are the same . Prince John , King Richard the Lionhearted and Robin Hood himself all appear in this movie again . And John has taken over the thrown again , while King Richard is being held captive . Needless to say that both stories show similarities as well . Hard to imaging these days that this movie was even being nominated for the Best Motion Picture of the year Oscar , back in ' 53 . It's just a bit too much credit for this movie . The movie was even being nominated for 2 more Oscar's ; Freddie Young's color cinematography and Miklós Rózsa's musical score . The dialog was absolutely great at parts , although I have the feeling that the best lines were directly copied from the Sir Walter Scott novel . Nothing wrong with that of course ! It's some typical old fashioned writing , that suits the movie its time period . The story is good and solid , although perhaps also confusing since it features many different characters , that look a like and all have different motivations . When watching this movie it's just all to clear that the story was based on a novel , rather than that it was an original script , specifically made for the screen . It also shows in its complicated triangular love-story . Because of its story the movie isn't really non-stop paced action and fun but it has some great remarkable sequences in it . Some of the action is really grand , such as the assault on the English castle by Robin Hood and at least an hundred of his merry men . It's a surprisingly big battle sequences ( at least for ' 50's standards of course ) that almost is in contrast with the rest of the movie , in terms of its size . The movie further more also features some great jousting competition sequences and of course the usual good versus evil sword-fights , that aren't that special really and are perhaps a even a bit clumsy looking . The cast of the movie was surprisingly big and great , though perhaps not all actors were rightly cast in their roles . Robert Taylor just never has been the greatest swashbuckler hero . At the time of this movie he was already too old looking for his role , even though he was only just barely 40 at the time . He just wasn't the sort of person that aged very well and on top of that he doesn't look to professional in his fight sequences . No denying that he's a good actor though . I wouldn't had cast him but he still is sort of OK in this movie . Joan Fontaine plays the sort of role in this movie , her sister ( Olivia de Havilland ) became legendary with . She is not as good or charming as her older sister but at least she still has got the right good looks for it , so she suits the role fine . A still very young Elizabeth Taylor also plays a fine and big role in the movie . Other great actors in this are George Sanders and Guy Rolfe , among others . A good , enjoyable movie that is very well worth watching , as long as you don't expect the Errol Flynn kind of classic swashbuckling action / adventure .
Simple and unsympathetic story is carried by a solid cast .	In no way " Lawman " is an exceptional or memorable western but it still is made interesting and entertaining enough by its fine and solid acting main cast . No western ever has had a complex or complicated story but this movie is rather easy , even for normal western standards . It's a typical ' revenge ' tale . Only problem this time is that the revenge tale isn't exactly a sympathetic one . I just don't see why about a dozen cowboy's have to die just because they accidentally killed an old man , in a drunk state . It really doesn't help to make this movie the most subtle or engaging western around . It also doesn't help to make the main character , the marshal played by Burt Lancaster a popular or engaging one . At times you even feel sorry and cheer for the ' villains ' but this is also probably mainly due to the fact that they are played by such fine and well known actors . Lee J . Cobb and Robert Duvall are among the solid cast . together with some other famed ' 70's actors . The main cast is extremely solid and everyone gives one fine and effective performance . In that regard this movie still distinct itself from other genre movies from the same period and still help to make this movie an unique and recommendable one . Especially Lee J . Cobb is impressive in his role . And no matter how small his role in this movie is , Robert Duvall's talent is obviously showing in this movie . Unfortunately the supporting cast of this movie is not halve as good . It makes most of the humor feel awkward and also prevents the more dramatic and serious story lines to work out correctly . The movie is well made , if not a tad bit formulaic . The cinematography and directing is mostly good and the musical score by Jerry Fielding is surprisingly good , for such a small and insignificant production . The movie is mostly filled with action , which helps to make this movie a perfectly watchable and well paced one . The movie ends with a genre formulaic shootout , that does not disappointed . Obviously best watchable for the genre fans but everyone else will probably also still enjoy this simple movie , thanks to its solid acting and famous cast .
Little story present but more than enough laughs to compensate for this .	There is little story present and the movie can mainly be split into two separate parts . The first part of the story is about Stan , who tries to sneak out of the house from his wife , to meet up with Ollie to go and have a good time in ' Rainbow club ' . The second part of the movie is about Stan and Ollie , who get ' drunk ' in the ' Rainbow club ' . The second part of the movie is more filled with some typical good slapstick humor and hardly any words are spoken in those sequences . It's in my opinion the best part of the movie and the timing and comedy-acting is top-class ! The movie has more than enough laughs in it to make " Blotto " an entertainingly watchable comical movie with Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy . Especially the slapstick moments make this movie a fun one to watch and are good for some serious laughs . Oliver Hardy and Stan Laurel are good as always and once more show the wonderful chemistry the both of them had together . Also Anita Garvin is wonderful in the role of Mrs . Laurel . The movie also provides a pretty good view on ' 30's nightlife , when the two enter the ' Rainbow club ' . Perfectly watchable when you want to have a good and fun 26 minutes .
Enjoyable and good for the fans of the genre only .	To all people who aren't really into the genre , this movie will probably seem like a pointless and far from interesting one to watch . To those who are into Italian gore this movie will be simple a pleasure to watch , even though it's not a brilliant movie in any way . It's a pretty simple movie with a simple plot , that serves as a vehicle to provide the movie with shocking and gory moments . It's however done in a good and effective way , so it will please those who are familiar with the genre . No wonder , since it had genre expert Joe D'Amato at the helm . He knows to build up its moments effectively and how to bring gore shocking and yet artistically to the screen . It has all the ingredients you can expect from a genre movie like this one . Blood , gore , nudity and a bunch of nut-jobs . The movie has some good psychotic character , who aren't being portrayed as over-the-top psychotic serial killers , who have some odd fetishes but more ' realisticly ' Let's say more like Norman Bates-style , so to speak . This helps to build up the movie its atmosphere , which makes this a psychological thriller as well . This element of the movie gets better and better as the story progresses , when it starts to lay less of its emphasis on its gore and more on the psychological aspects . Real recommendable for the fans of the genre !
Good looking and well acted but the story didn't grabbed me .	" Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events " is a great children movie , no doubt about that . It's good entertainment to watch but still the movie leaves a bad aftertaste . It's because the movie has so many missed opportunities and could had been a so much better movie . The sets are beautiful , the costumes are beautiful and so is the make-up . The cinematography is fine and the story is told in a good fast pace , even though the story takes quite some big leaps at times . Jim Carrey obviously had fun playing all those different characters , with make-up on . He plays his roles entertainingly over-the-top which also makes it very fun for us the viewers to watch . Not his best role , but certainly one of his most entertaining ones . The movie also has other fin well known actors in it such as Billy Connolly , Meryl Streep and Timothy Spall , who all seemed to be enjoying themselves while making the movie . But also truly fine were the children actors who really were the heart and main characters of the movie . They were good and believable in their roles and made the movie because of that work . The movie has a wonderful imaginative story , characters and events but none of it ever really grabbed me . The movie didn't handled the emotions really well , which must have been the main reason why the movie didn't really grabbed me . Sure , it was all good fun and beautiful to watch but I missed some depth in it all . A little bit more work on the script would had made the movie so much better to watch . Oh well , children will still love this movie though . It has all the elements in it to make this an entertaining movie to watch for the young ones . Certainly one of the more entertaining movies of 2004 but not the must see I expected it to be .
Mr . Hardy gets in trouble with his wife . . . again .	Laurel & Hardy getting in trouble with one or both wives has got too be the most used plot line in the long series of Laurel & Hardy movies . In this movie Oliver Hardy gets into trouble with his wife when she is fed up with cooking for every friend that her husband takes home . The story sounds simple and so is the movie . It's simple but effective . The comical situations work out well and it makes this movie a worthy first ' talkie ' for the two boys . It's not their best or most original movie but it serves its purpose . The plot line for this movie was later reused for the other Laurel & Hardy picture ; " Block-Heads " , which to be honest is better executed in that movie and it's a more superior movie in general . Nothing remarkable , just another fine executed and timed enjoyable comical short from Laurel & Hardy , with also the Laurel & Hardy regulars Thelma Todd , Mae Busch and Edgar Kennedy in it .
America through the eyes of a Kazakh .	This movie was probably most and the highest criticized from Kazahkstan itself . Unrigthfully so . The movie doesn't make fun of Kazahkstan , it makes fun of Americans , in a criticizing way . Kazahkstan is merely used as a platform to show the ( of course exaggerated ) contrasts between the advanced and ' civilized ' America and the simplistic Kazakhstan and how a simplistic man , from such a simplistic place , such as Borat Sagdiyev ( Sacha Baron Cohen ) is capable of pinching right through the advanced and civilized Americans and puts his finger right on the spot . The movie is about Borat learning from America and Americans . for the benefits of his country Kazakhstan but the question raises ; Shouldn't America and Americans also learn from simplistic countries such as Kazakhstan , for their own good and benefits ? Just like in Michael Moore movies often is the case , Borat knows to put his finger on the right place and manages to show America how it really is . An uptight , patriotic , homophobic , God fearing , anti-social country , in which minorities still have a hard time and not all rights are considered equal to some . It's funny , in the interviews it often is not Borat who says the most offensive things , it are the interviewees who do so , such as the rodeo-guy and the frat boys . But no , the movie is not all criticism . For most part it's just a fun and often also hilarious people about making fun of ignorant people . In all honesty it's hard to tell how much of the movie was actually improvised and how much of it was real . Obviously some sequences were scripted such as all the scene's in Kazakhstan and some other sequences will make you really doubt . Some of obviously planned the camera-positions are often too coincidental and also the fact that the movie had an actual professional director attached to it , makes you really wonder . It also is hard to imaging that all those people actually took this silly talking and looking character so seriously as they did in this movie all the time . When a person who wears his underwear above his pants and is talking slang is entering your hotel with a camera-crew following him , wouldn't you crack up , realizing that this just can't be for real ? The movie is also edited in such a way that the emotions and reactions get exaggerated . It's also are the reasons why you can't really call this movie a fake documentary or mockumentary . What I loved about the " Da Ali G Show " , in which Borat often made an appearance , was that it was improvised , real , often had no point and was all about the responses of the other person on the Sacha Baron Cohen characters . It was fun to see the peoples reactions and how they did respond to the character and its outrageous and often also offensive questions . This movie is overwritten in my opinion . The movie has a main plot line in in , in which Borat falls for non other than Pamela Anderson and makes it his personal mission to find her and marry her . In my opinion the improvising way of traveling through the USA and meeting and interviewing people would had worked way better , in both terms of criticism and humor . Now some parts in the movie feel planned and acted , which is definitely not Borat's strongest point . It also again raises the question of how much of the movie is actually improvised and how much of it was planned , though I definitely believe that most of the interviews and Borat with other people were for real . Ironic , since it was the screenplay that was actually being nominated for an Academy Award . But all this criticism aside , this is a very fun and also often hilarious movie to watch . Some of the situations Borat gets himself into are priceless and the reactions from the ignorant persons are even more hilarious . They often don't know how to cope with this odd talking and looking character from the far away and insignificant country of Kazakhstan . There are a couple of especially memorable sequences , such as when Borat and Azamat wrestle naked in their hotel room , after Azamat's ' hand-feast ' and then start running naked through the hotel , elevators and eventually ending up wrestling naked in a convention room with hundreds of people in it . There are a couple of more hilarious and memorable sequences but no one really matches up to that moment , that totally catches you completely off guard . It's all fast paced , which makes sure that you'll probably laugh your way non-stop trough this movie . A perfectly fun and amusing movie that also has some striking criticism , that could had used some less story and perhaps should had been more like the show .
Some good old fashioned Harryhausen fun .	This is a perfectly fun and adventurous movie to watch , focusing on the adventures of Sinbad . It's of course a movie that mostly distinct itself through its Ray Harryhausen stop-motion effects . The movie features a giant cyclops , giant killer birds , a dragon and a fighting skeleton . Basisicly every Harryhausen effect and type of monster used in this movie got later reused in the much better known " Jason and the Argonauts " from 1963 . Another thing that stands out in this movie is the musical score by Bernard Herrmann . It's a real fantastic and perfectly adventurous score , that is worth searching out . It's an at times quite silly and certainly outdated movie to watch now days but that has of course by now become all part of its charm . It of course isn't a movie with the best or most clever written and constructed scripts but it's a movie that relies purely on its adventurous aspects . It's also a fairly fast paced movie , that features plenty of ( mostly Harryhausen-monster - ) action . It because of that also becomes a fun and entertaining movie to watch . Unfortunately the acting isn't much good in this . This is of course also due to it that the acting by todays standards feel very outdated but even with this in mind , the actors just weren't among the best of their time , with the exception maybe of Torin Thatcher who plays an enjoyable villain . Kerwin Mathews was a sort of a disappointing and boring main hero . He also wasn't the greatest actor , not even for genre movie standards and his career also ended by 1978 , after appearing mostly in B-horror and science-fiction flicks in his later days , though he himself lived till 2007 . Some good old fashioned adventurous entertainment !
Average thriller but the kidnappers point of view is interesting and provide's some nice moments .	What would happen in the movie was no big surprise to me really , thanks to the bad advertising for this movie , in which the main plot twist was already revealed . Still " Ransom " is a very good watchable movie . OK calling it average maybe is not completely fair by me maybe , cause " Ransom " is more than average at times . It really is good that this movies shows both sides of the kidnap , both the little boy's ( Brawley Nolte , yes , indeed the son of . . . ) parents ( Mel Gibson , Rene Russo ) and the kidnappers ( Gary Sinise , Lili Taylor , Liev Schreiber , Donnie Wahlberg , Evan Handler . ) . The fact that it also shows the kidnappers is what makes this movie even more tense actually . I'm sorry but I just can't stand Rene Russo in this movie . Her character really irritated me at times . Best actor is Gary Sinise who was really ' hot ' in the mid-90's , ever since his Oscar nomination for one of my personal favorite movie's , " Forrest Gump " . It was also nice to see the at the time fairly unknown actor Donnie Wahlberg , who also did a good job . The music by James Horner is good , still I'm curious about the original Howard Shore score . Yes the movie has some good moments and is perfectly watchable but it most certainly is not Ron Howard's or Mel Gibson's best . It also is not a movie that I enjoy watching multiple times . Also the original from 1956 is still a better movie even if it doesn't have action or a spectacular ending . At least it was more tense and less predictable as this movie was at times .
As of yet , still the only way to watch this classic 1927 movie .	" London After Midnight " is perhaps the most sought after movie , that is presumed lost . The only remaining print of it was destroyed in a fire in the late ' 60's . I tend to say no . Remaining still existing pictures of Lon Chaney in full make-up effect added to the hype of this movie and also the fact that this Tod Browning movie features vampires , 4 years before he made the horror-classic " Dracula " , starring Bela Lugosi . In 2002 a reconstruction , made from still photographs of the 1927 was made and aired on TCM . It's an attempt to retell the story and show how the movie must have been like , also with the help of persons who had actually seen the 1927 movie at the time of its release . It's an interesting experiment and attempt to reconstruct a lost movie , though it of course doesn't work out as good as the moving images would had . The movie purely consists out of photographs . It makes the sequence feel rather limited in terms of its mood , acting and overall storytelling . It's a flat and far from engaging way of film-making , that is not always easy to watch . I mean , you can just as good read a paper version of this movie with pictures in it and let your own imagination do the work . It perhaps would work out way better than this movie eventually did . The movie features a whole lot of characters that don't get properly introduced ( but then again , how could they ) . It makes the movie confusing and also from an engaging one to watch . The story and its plot really don't work out because of the way of storytelling . The movie is more of a murder-mystery than a horror-movie , like you perhaps would expect from persons like director Tod Browning and actor Lon Chaney . I suggest that if you want to understand the story , you watch " Mark of the Vampire " . A 1935 sort of remake of this movie , also directed by Tod Browning and starring Lionel Barrymore and Bela Lugosi . But was the ' real ' " London After Midnight " really a great classic movie ? I tend to say no . At the rime of its release the movie already got mixed reactions from the critics , though the movie still was the highest grossing Tod Browning / Lon Chaney movie . The story was too weak and messy to make this a classic must-see . It isn't a very intriguing story and the movie misses tension , a good solid main plot and likable main characters . But of course it's impossible to say this with a 100 % certainty , since I haven't seen the ' real ' moving full length version of this movie , for the obvious reason . It really looked like Lon Chaney's presence uplifted the movie though , both with his looks and performance . He looked genuine creepy in his role , with some great make-up effects and mimics from ' the man of a thousand faces ' . It's the reason why this movie is still probably better than the average one from the same genre , especially for 1927 standards . Also Edna Tichenor as Luna the Bat Girl looked impressive in her role . The sets looked good and it must had given the movie a real good and creepy kind of atmosphere , I assume . Like mentioned before , the make-up effects also looked really convincing and are now part of the movie its legacy and status among movie lovers . This movie forms a good enough alternative to still be able to watch this lost 1927 movie from legendary director Tod Browning and actor Lon Chaney , until the real movie shows up again somewhere , though this isn't very likely to ever happen .
In bed with Laurel & Hardy .	Perhaps it's because that this movie is probably the Laurel & Hardy short I've seen most in my life that I got sort of tiresome of watching it but I don't find this movie to be the most hilarious or best constructed and executed Laurel & Hardy comedy short around . But you know , when you watch this movie objectively just for what it is , so not necessarily as a part of the Laurel & Hardy shorts alone you have to conclude that this is a pretty entertaining and fun little movie . The movie its premise is extremely simple and gives both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardsy to let their comical talents shine , since they're basically the only two actors in the movie , except for the last couple of minutes in which Laurel & Hardy regular Charlie Hall , among others , shows up as the landlord . The comical routines are rather simple but I guess they are effective enough , since they surely amuse . It just isn't the most hilarious or imaginative Laurel & Hardy comedy around but that doesn't of course mean that this movie is bad or not entertaining .
Everyone has a little Paul Kersey in them .	Would the world be a better place with more persons like Paul Kersey around ? Who knows . But either way , everyone should be able to recognize themselves in the actions Paul Kersey takes . Even though its ruthless and violent , you still understand him and cheer for him as well . It distinct this movie from other ' revenge-flicks ' and is the very reason why this movie has grown a bit into a Charles Bronson classic . I like how the movie handles its story . It doesn't try to glorify Paul Kersey's actions but it does make them understandable . Yes , the violence is pretty brutal but it all serves a purpose in the movie and becomes necessary for the forming of the character . Basically this movie is just your average action movie revenge flick but with more realism added to it . It helps to make " Death Wish " an original movie , even though the story and concept itself is far from anything new or original . The story is slowly told and it takes its time to develop . The movie is perhaps even an essential ' 70's viewing , since its a one of a kind movie , in which a normal every day guy turn into a ' sidewalk vigilante ' after his wife is killed and his daughter raped by a couple of thugs ( one of them played by a very young Jeff Goldblum in his very first screen appearance ) . But lets be fair . the movie is far from a perfect one . The movie has a typical experimental like ' 70's style , especially in its cinematography , that is interesting to watch but it adds very little and works distracting at times . The movie is also told very simple at times and some of the sequences even feel amateur like , to be honest . The story itself also feels extremely far fetched and unlikely . I mean , literally every time Paul Kersey goes outside he walks into trouble . He gets mugged several times and he encounters other thugs on numerous occasions . It's highly unlikely all , even for in a city like New York . The acting on the other hand is good . It's probably mainly thanks to Charles Bronson that his character works so well for the story . I also really liked Vincent Gardenia in his role . He brought some much needed comic relief and gave the story some extra flair and depth . A simple movie that mainly thanks to the original way it handles the story and characters , works out extremely well as a brutal action flick . Even though flawed , still an essential ' 70's viewing in my opinion .
Fun entertaining movie .	Of all the recent buddy-cop movies , released lately this is one of the better ones . Biggest strength of this movie is in the two main characters played by Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson . They are such a great screen duo together and have some great team chemistry on the screen . The movie is filled with many other great comical talented actors such as ; Vince Vaughn as the main villain , Snoop Dogg and Will Ferrell and some smaller roles for famous names such as ; Chris Penn , Carmen Electra , Amy Smart and Juliette Lewis . But the movie is more then just an ordinary buddy-movie , it also is a priceless parody of ' 70's TV-shows in general . It uses some of the same camera-positions and style of editing at times , especially in the action sequences . But also the way of acting , dialog and costumes perfectly spoof all those silly ' 70 TV-series . I'm not sure if everybody catch or understood this but I really laughed out loud at some moments . The comedy can be put in the category silly , so this movie is clearly not suitable for everyone . The humor is really over-the-top but I for one really enjoyed that . The characters are really silly but the professional comedy actors portray them extremely well and likable . A perfectly fun comedy to kill some time with .
It comes close at times but nowhere does this movie reach a level of true greatness .	" Red Dragon " certainly is no bad movie but it most certainly isn't great either . On every level , the movie is nothing more than an above average one . Main problem with " Red Dragon " is that the movie is too formulaic made . It's has all the typical Hollywood aspects in it . Nothing in the movie comes as a real surprise and everything is build up too simple . It's a average thriller that certainly satisfies but never really impresses . It feels as the movie comes one step too short with everything . It comes really close at times to a level of greatness but it never fully reaches it , the movie is too averagely constructed for that . I think man to blame for this is director Brett Ratner . He made the movie casually but without much style or flair . Yes , it's still a worthy addition to the series of Hannibal Lecter movies and like I said before the movie is certainly an above average one . One reason for this is thanks to the good cast of the movie . Anthony Hopkins returns as Dr . Hannibal Lecter , although his role isn't as big as in the other movies . Ralph Fiennes plays the real ' psycho ' in this one and he does this very well . Other fine roles are being played by Edward Norton , Harvey Keitel , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Bill Duke and Frank Whaley . The movie never really becomes truly scary or tense , the style and atmosphere is too lacking for that but still the story fascinates enough . The movie begins well but after that it loses some of it's realism and credibility due to the way of storytelling . Still so , the presence of Hannibal Lecter in this movie certainly is reason enough on its own to make this movie a recommendable one . Yes , I still could recommend this movie to you simply because it's still a better movie than 75 % of the thrillers released present day . Fans of the thriller genre will not be disappointed by the movie and its story but it's too formulaic and forced to make this movie a truly memorable one .
Good take on the Dracula story .	This 1979 version of Dracula is far from the best but it's also far from the worst . It has enough original touches to distinct itself from previous versions and is a perfectly watchable horror movie . This is a very dark movie . Perhaps a bit too dark at times . It does provide some good atmospheric scene's but it also distracts sometimes from what's happening on the screen . On the other hand it also does provide some good looking horror moments at times . The movie is also perhaps looking older than it truly is . The movie was made in 1979 but by the looks of it , it could had also been filmed in the ' 50's . Perhaps this was done intentional as a sort of homage to the Dracula Hammer movies ? Anyway it wasn't necessary and it makes the movie look a bit outdated already . The story is good and original but it does has its flaws . The Jonathan Harker and Renfield story lines are heavily underdeveloped in this movie . The movie has a good opening and ending but the first part of the movie might be perhaps a bit slow and dragging at times . Only from the moment Van Helsing appears in the story , the movie truly becomes interesting and begins to take pace . Frank Langella is a good actor but he doesn't have enough charisma as count Dracula . There were some good scene's between him and Laurence Olivier though , who played Van Helsing . Laurence Olivier is a fantastic actor and he puts lots of class in his character . Also the fact that he spoke with a Dutch accent and actually even spoke some Dutch words ( Van Helsing is a Dutch character after all ) delighted me . As a Dutchman I can tell you that he did a very good job creating a English-Dutch accent . The way he pronounced some of the words was spot on ! Dutch wasn't a weird language to him anyway , he already played a Dutch speaking character in Richard Attenborough's " A Bridge Too Far " , two years earlier . Also great was Donald Pleasence in his role as Dr . Jack Seward . Truly a wonderful supporting cast ! The cinematography by Gilbert Taylor was simply wonderful at times and the musical score by John Williams was totally fantastic ! It truly uplifts the movie and makes the movie feel and look better than it truly is . Seriously , without John Williams his musical score I would had rated this movie an 6 instead of an 7 . A good and original enough take on the Dracula story ! For the fans simply a must see .
Really entertaining murder mystery .	What are people complaining about ! This is a pretty decent movie for what it is . It's a very entertaining movie to watch , thanks to its fine good old fashioned style of humor . If this movie was made as a serious one it would had been a very bad movie . I mean , there is not really much to the story . There are too many characters ( Atleast for an one hour movie . ) , which makes the story and the whole whodunit element of the movie quite confusing at times . The actual plot also just isn't that interesting and concentrates on the worlds most rare stamp , that appears to have been stolen . The movie is really being saved by its fun . The movie foremost is like a comedy , rather than really a mystery movie . The actors are all entertaining in their roles and some of them are obviously deliberately over-the-top . It makes " The Mandarin Mystery " a real pleasant and light movie to watch . You know , the sort of movie that is great to watch in between . Nothing too impressive , just some good old fashioned - and effective , simple entertainment .
Yeah it's entertaining alright . . .	But still I don't fully understand why this movie become such a huge hit and got such a high rating on here . Sure it's good entertainment but it's far from the best comedy I have ever seen . There are some good and well made sequences that are really funny but there also are multiple lame moments in the movie and the story itself also isn't exactly solid . John Cho and Kal Penn are good and fun as the main characters but they aren't actors that will gain an huge star status . What makes the movie really fun and work are the other crazy characters that pop up in this movie . The movie mainly consists out of several different crazy situations that don't always exactly feel connected , which gives the movie a bit of an incoherent feeling at times and the movie isn't always constantly fun to watch . There are some weaker and lame moments in this movie which makes this movie a just above average ' silly ' comedy . A better script would had definitely made this movie a better one . Still of course the movie is perfectly entertaining to watch if you want to have some silly crazy fun without having to think too much . Not exactly the comedy of the decade but certainly a perfectly watchable and entertaining one .
Oh that evil Johnny Cash !	This is quite a special Columbo movie , not because it's very original or is of exceptional quality but because it features famous singer Johnny Cash as the murderer . Of course Johnny Cash also plays a musician in this movie and he more or less plays himself . This is always an handy and safe approach when you work with an actor that is not really an actor in the first place . As a matter of fact , Cash spends halve of the time singing in this movie . Besides Johnny Cash and Peter Falk the movie , among others , also features Ida Lupino . Columbo movies often featured movie stars from the ' old days ' . Ida Lupino actually also starred before in the other previous Columbo movie " Columbo : Short Fuse " . Lupino is best known for the work she did in the 40's , with movies such as " High Sierra " , " The Sea Wolf " and " They Drive by Night " on her resume . The movie is directed by Nicholas Colasanto , who also directed the most excellent Columbo movie " Columbo : Étude in Black " . That movie was mostly great since he left the two main leading men , Peter Falk and John Cassavetes , lots of room to improvise and do things their own way , rather than being hold down by a script or directed . But of course with a movie that stars non-professional actor Johnny Cash you can't really afford to choose this approach , even though he obviously still gave some of the other actors some room . The directing for this movie also most certainly is not bad , it's actually quite great but it can't really touch " Columbo : Étude in Black " . Nicholas Colasanto himself by the way still better known to the world as an actor , who portrayed the character Coach in the hit-series " Cheers " , right till his death in 1985 . Nicholas Colasanto's directing style on the other hand has as a consequence that the movie is slow moving in parts and you have the feeling at times that Colasanto's overdid it perhaps at times with his directing approach . An all in all good Columbo movie , that is obviously especially worth watching for the fans of Johnny Cash .
Possibly the most outdated Columbo movie around .	The earliest Columbo movie entry dates back from 1968 but yet no other Columbo movie seems as old as this one . The silly outdated technical and scientific elements and the presence of Robby the Robot makes this movie feel and look outdated which does take away some of the quality of the overall movie but nevertheless doesn't prevent the movie from being not entertaining or bad to watch . Nevertheless I don't really count this movie among one of the best out of the long running Columbo series . The story and especially its settings were not really interesting enough and the movie also really lacked a good well known actor opposite Peter Falk . It's not that José Ferrer is a bad actor but he just didn't played his role very interestingly , which caused his presence and role to be a forgettable one . There also isn't enough interaction between him and Lt . Columbo , which normally really is a requirement for a good Columbo movies . There were more clues left out for Lt . Columbo than usual , which is also one of the reasons why the story isn't among the best out of all the Columbo movies . Quite funny how Robby the Robot often keeps popping up in movies and series . He made his first appearance in 1956 in the science-fiction movie " Forbidden Planet " and continues appearing in movies till this present day . His role in this movie is also quite big and significant for the movie its main plot . It remains a well made movie and a pleasant enough to watch murder-mystery but it's perhaps a tad bit more forgettable than most other average Columbo entries .
Highly enjoyable ! But you have to be a fan of the genre .	The movie is highly enjoyable crossover of the classic horror characters the Frankenstein monster and the Wolf man , played in this movie by the equally legendary Bela Lugosi and Lon Chaney Jr . Did you watched this movie Stephen Sommers ? This movie is how " Van Helsing " more should had been . You don't need fancy special effects and quick action to tell an horror story , it certainly wasn't respectful for the classic characters and classic horror movies in general . This movie shows that all you need to make a good horror movie are good horror characters , the rest is than already of minor importance . The story for instance is of minor importance . The story is pretty silly and weak at times and they try too hard to give a good reason why the Wolf Man and the Frankenstein monster are in this movie together . The result is pretty silly at times but also at the same time still very enjoyable to watch all . I mean the Frankenstein monster and the Wolf Man in one movie ? Which horror fan will not enjoy this great concept . Unfortunalty the movie is nothing more than just enjoyable . It never gets scary and it lacks a good strong flowing story . The movie itself is also pretty forgettable . Still its pretty fun to see some references to other Frankenstein and Wolf Man movies . Also the typical over-dramatized music was quite awful to listen to . Simply a must see for the fans but everyone else can better skip this one .
A well made movie , that fails to really capture the mood and emotions of that fateful day .	The movie sort of has the bad luck that " United 93 " was the first major theatrical movie released , regarding , so of course these two movies immediately got compared to each other . " United 93 " is a movie that is far superior in its emotions and in capturing the the mood and emotions of that day . It makes you relive . " World Trade Center " is a different movie , with a different approach , that is less powerful , though still powerful nevertheless , just in a different way . It's probably the reason why " United 93 " got praised way more and " World Trade Center " got based way more , even though it of course is far from a bad movie . Just because it's different doesn't mean it's bad . I mean , it's not like every good movie about WW II is the same either . The movie mostly lays its emphasis on the heroic aspects of . The sort of message of the movie is ' we'll overcome ' and not ' this is our darkest hour ' . Maybe America and Americans needed this sort of movie , to heal their wounds and handle their emotions , that are all still fresh , by showing , as weird and disrespectful as it might sound , the positive aspects of , by showing the individual heroism and how people were brought together through the events and including a ' happy ' ending . The movie doesn't ever succeed in capturing the total chaos , confusing and desperation of that day , perhaps only the first few minutes of the movie . It doesn't make this movie the most powerful or relevant movies , regarding the subject , around and my hope is that later Hollywood movies shall succeed better in this , since it concerns a relevant , important subject , that should be continued to be lighted in future movies , to contribute to it that shall never be forgotten . Let's be fair , in essence this movie is a disaster movie , like so many were made of in the ' 70's . And lets face it , those movies just aren't the best ones around . My biggest fear was that " World Trade Center " would be just as sappy and over-the-top melodramatic in some of it's moments , like always in ' 70's also was the case . " World Trade Center " is definitely sappy and over-the-top melodramatic at times but not halve as bad as I had feared . Some of the sequence even work out effective . It are however the emotions of the story work out but not the emotions of itself . Perhaps the most amazing thing about the movie is that its directed by Oliver Stone . A man who normally likes to handle controversial and provocative subjects and throw in some conspiracy theories . It would had been very easy to put in conspiracy theories in this movie and if one man could do it , it would be him . " World Trade Center " however in now way ever gets predictable or question the actions of the authorities , or anything of that sort . As a matter of fact , if you'd told me this movie was directed by someone else , I would had believed it . Nothing in this movie indicates that this movie is directed by Oliver Stone . Also his trademark of fast cuts and high pace is not notable in this movie . The movie is very natural and mainstream . It also of course means that this movie is also perfectly watchable for his non-fans . The time-line is pretty messed up . Hours go by in only on screen minutes time . The movie focuses entirely on and the morning after but the movie doesn't ever give us the sense of time , also of course since it mostly is set underground , beneath the rubble of the collapsed tower . It however doesn't always make the story flow well and causes some drags . It's a true story and that's really amazing . The story of the two men who got stuck alive beneath the rubble and life to tell the story is pretty amazing , considering how many lives were lost on and how many actually survived from the rubble . Yet the movie also decides to put some more characters in the story , as if the two main characters already aren't interesting and in a way symbolic enough for that day . Of course it also focuses on their families , which makes sense but it also throws in some other ' heroic ' characters in the movie , that we however never get to known , which make them and the plot lines around them pretty shallow and needless . Not sure if Nicolas Cage was the right choice for the role . I mean he has never really played a dramatic or touching role in his career , though I'm definitely not a Nicolas Cage hater . I think a movie like this would had been better off with a completely unknown cast . It would had made it easier to identify yourself with them and would also had made the movie and story work out more realistic and powerful . The effects of the movie are really good . The the impact and the all look extremely realistic and is amazingly well done , with lots of respect . So the movie doesn't try to impress with its visuals or make the impact and collapse look spectacular . As a matter of fact , the collapse of the towers isn't even shown on screen . See this movie for how well made it is but don't see it for its emotions or for the emotional and touching impact it will make on you . For that , I recommend you watch " United 93 " instead .
Below average	The movie lacks tension and has a predictable plot . Too bad , because the idea of focusing more on Tommy Lee and Co ( the U . S . Marshals ) instead of the fugitive this time was good but it didn't worked out very well . First of all Wesley Snipes is an horrible choice as lead character and the story also doesn't do any good to the movie , it's very predictable and so is the action . The silly conspiracy plot has already been done a million times . The movie never get's exciting which is mainly because of the weak story line . Watch this just for Tommy Lee Jones performance and the nice Jerry Goldsmith score . Watchable but not recommendable .
Nothing wrong with some good simple entertainment !	This is a real pleasant animated movie , that doesn't really stand out , but surely will give you a good time while watching it . Because Jerry Seinfeld is foremost a stand-up comedian , a lot of jokes in this movie are also verbal ones , rather than visual ones . It makes this movie a little different from the usual animated one , of which so many get released these days . Not of course that there are not any visual jokes , there are still also plenty of those and as well some typical cartoonish slapstick like moments . Some plot lines are introduced but they are not wrapped up properly or just abandoned after a while . It makes the movie its story , especially in the second halve , a bit of a disjointed one . As if they were just still chronologically coming up with the story during the animation process . Same goes for some of the characters . As the movie progresses some of them are being introduced as new ' big ' characters but then suddenly disappear again out of the story completely without making a relevant enough addition to the movie as a whole . Just like the previous Dreamworks animated movie " Madagascar " , the movie it's animations aren't among their finest in the field . It's at times a pretty simplistic looking movie , without too much details or complicated shots . It's as if Dreamworks only wants to spend some real money and their expertise on the Shrek-serials . Still pretty amazing how many well known people lend their voice to this movie . Also some people you wouldn't expect it from such as Barry Levinson , Sting , Oprah Winfrey and Ray Liotta in an hilarious cameo as himself . But above all , it of course still is a Jerry Seinfeld movie . Also John Goodman and Patrick Warburton plays some fun parts . My only wish would be that Patrick Warburton's role was just a bit bigger . Not the sort of movie you'll still talk about 10 years from now but I simply had a good time while I was watching it .
A joy for the De Palma fans , for most others it's just another confusing thriller .	Just like with " Femme Fatale " was the case , the opening sequences of this movie is more legendary than the actual movie itself . The opening sequences of this movie lasts for about 13 minutes . It seems like its one big long take but there are some hidden cuts in it . Most people that are really into movies will notice some of the cuts . De Palma uses some good editing tricks and crafty cinematography . It also makes the opening the highlight of the movie . Of course you can wonder if its really wise and good for a movie to have its best moment in the beginning . Everything that comes after it just doesn't match up to it and it might very well be the reason why this movie disappointed many people . I really like it how the same events are told throughout the movie from different viewpoints . It sheds now light on the truth and helps to unveil the story and plot . That's some great film-making ! It also makes the movie a very original one in its sort . Yes , the movie gets at points hard to follow , mainly because it isn't always credible what's happening on the screen . Nevertheless , I remember the first time I saw the movie that the twists in it surprised me and the story was a great mysterious one . Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise are really strong actors in this movie . It takes some skill to handle all those long scene's without messing up and staying consistent . Especially Gary Sinise is great but I think that Nicolas Cage is also under-appreciated in his role . You are supposed to sort of dislike him , I mean he really isn't a clean cop , and that's what I like about the character and Cage's his performance . I also enjoyed the musical score by Ryuichi Sakamoto . It's totally overblown and out of proportion but it suits the movie and its style really well . Same of course goes for the cinematography . It's basically a very stylish and originally made movie , like you would expect from Brian De Palma . It's obviously not his most expensive movie because most of the movie is set at one location and it also isn't the longest movie around . It makes this an enjoyable ' small ' De Palma movie that's also perfectly watchable for the general public . The movie is made in the sort of style they also used to make ' 40's movies in . I especially like the use of shadows in this movie . De Palma is , as far is I know of , the only director who can successfully implement ' 40's movie-making style into modern film-making . It's a good looking movie with a style that captures you and sort of makes you forgive the inconsistencies and flaws in the story . However if you also look beyond this style you'll notice that the story and its thriller elements are all quite standards and nothing really really . Just the way it all is dressed is new ! So yes , it's a case of style over substance , like often is the case with De Palma movies . But as a fan I really aren't complaining about this ! Most recommendable to the De Palma fans but other people should also be able to appreciate the style and craftsmanship of this movie .
An original take on the genre but too blah for my taste .	This is not just your average spy movie . It chooses a realistic approach , with a slowly told story and an humane main ' normal ' character . No action or fancy tricks here , just a normal every day looking spy who tries to infiltrate by the ' enemy ' with words , rather than actions . Nothing wrong with a movie that has much dialog but it has to be good enough to keep and grab your attention . This however isn't always the case in this particular movie . The dialog does tend to make this movie unnecessary hard to follow at times . The movie chooses to tell its story through its dialog rather than by the actors or images themselves . For most part it works effective enough but it also makes the movie drag and uninteresting to watch at times . The movie makes it too hard on itself . The fact that this is a cold war thriller made during the cold war itself gives the movie a certain bit of extra . It helps to make the atmosphere an absolutely fantastic one . No way a movie with a story like this could be made as effective and realistic present day . Its atmosphere is definitely one of the reasons why the movie works out so well and realistic . Of course another reason is Richard Burton . He plays a ' not so everyday ' spy . He is far from perfect and he rather seems and acts like a bum , instead of a cool , agile spy . This is of course a far more realistic take on the spy movie genre . Burton , through his role , is the main reason why the movie works well and effective . The movie is filled with some other good but mostly unknown actors . Bernard Lee and Walter Gotell also pop up in the movie . It's sort of fun seeing these two actors together in a different spy movie than the James Bond movies . It's story is for most part intriguing and features some good and interesting layers in it that makes this an excellent and original thriller and genre movie . The movie is good looking , despite the surprising fact that the movie was not shot in Germany ( where the movie for most part is set ) at all . The movie is filmed brilliant entirely in black & white . The camera-work is just great and every sequences is eye candy to look at . Also the musical score is surprisingly good and effective . So all in all , it's a very stylish and beautiful looking movie , that becomes a bit too unnecessary hard to follow at certain moments because of its many and complex dialog .
Not their greatest but still a nice Laurel & Hardy comical short .	" Twice Two " isn't among the most consistent or hilarious Laurel & Hardy shorts but it still is fun and good enough to watch . The boys in drag isn't exactly the greatest style of humor . The concept even got a bit tiresome after a while in the movie . The movie goes on for a bit too long with its gags and isn't the best paced Laurel & Hardy short . Yet the movie is filled with some truly great and well timed moments , that without doubt will make you laugh . A fun movie but with a far too long stretched out concept and storyline .
Nothing wrong with this comedy but no classic either really . . .	This is a very well executed comedy but it just ain't no classic in my book . The story is well executed but it's just a little bit too flat and standard in my opinion . The style is typical eighties like , meaning the visual style is practically zero . I don't what it is with me and eighties style movies , I just don't like it . Seventies movies had style , nineties movies had style , current movies are having an own unique style , eighties movies just didn't , although there are exceptions of course . Eddie Murphy was surprising good in his role , he shows that he is a real comedy expert . The rest of the cast consists out of actors such as Dan Akroyd , Jamie Lee Curtis , Denholm Elliott ( I was very excited to see Elliot in this role , I had only seen him in his Indiana Jones roles ) and some small parts played by James Belushi and Frank Oz ( great to see him without a puppet attached to him ) . The movie has some funny moments variation from hilarious to just funny . The whole bit in the train cabin was priceless , when Eddie Murphy pretended to be a Cameroonian student , I couldn't stop laughing . Good comedy but it's getting a bit outdated and standard .
Slightly disappointing but yet an entertaining movie that is worth watching .	The movie was not what I had hoped to be . although I'm not a die-hard " X-Men " fan , I still grew watching the 1992 cartoon and consider myself fairly familiar with the " X-Men " franchise . Having that said I must concluded that this movie was not what I had hoped and expected it to be . There are several things which I didn't liked about the movie . One of them is the visual style , I don't know but it was just all to dark for me , it didn't had a comic book feeling like movies as " Spider-Man " , " Hulk " and " Batman " all had . The X-Men uniforms also bothered me , yes I would had preferred yellow spandex ! ( inside movie joke ) . The movie also wasted too much time on character development and some characters are highly underused , mainly Storm and Jean Grey . I must say that let the movie mainly focus on Wolverine / Logan was brilliant . For me Wolverine always was the most interesting character in the cartoon . It's too bad that they changed Rogue's character so intensely , it's not that it's not a good character it's just that I preferred the cartoon Rogue . One last thing that disappointed me was the musical score by Michael Kamen . It lacked a good main theme and while it is a fairly good score on it's own , it is not really fitting the movie . But yet again I make it sound like this is a bad movie . No , it's not a bad movie , it's far from it . The special effects are great and never overused . There are some spectacular fights and action sequences although the entire end fight was slightly disappointing for me . The movie in general is also too short . The entire movie was very well casted . Ian McKellen , Patrick Stewart , Hugh Jackman were all brilliantly cast ! It was especially Hugh Jackman who was simply perfect in his role . Hugh Jackman = Wolverine ! All in all it was not what I had hoped it to be but it still is a very entertaining well cast movie with some spectacular moments . Very well worth watching .
Entertaining and ' new ' .	This movie delivers some solid entertainment and the ' new ' way of movie making also makes this movie interesting to watch . The visual look and feeling are fantastic . It's pretty obvious that Kerry Conran was inspired by " Metropolis " . The atmosphere is truly wonderful and give the movie an unique look and feeling . I for one applaud this new way of movie making and I'm looking forward to new Kerry Conran projects . Still the movie has many missed opportunities . From a movie like this you would expect many big spectacular dogfights but the movie and the action is set just mainly on the ground . The movie is more of an Indiana Jones like adventure than anything else . As for the action itself , it isn't incredibly memorable . Oh and the movie features some horrible fake German accents . It's very obvious that the German persons in this movie are not played by real Germans . Not really a complaint but more something that could had been improved . The movie features some well known actors and surprisingly the best in my eyes was Giovanni Ribisi . Truly the best role I have seen him in till date . The story itself also isn't very appealing . The whole Totenkopf plot doesn't really work out well and I would had much more preferred the movie to concentrate more on the dogfights and those huge and fantastic destructive machines . Still the movie does deliver some solid entertainment and more than enough visual beauty and I find this movie to be very recommendable .
Some of the best and most spectacular stunt-work I've seen in a long time .	Before this movie Superman ' returned ' , Batman ' began ' and now it's James Bond turn to get a complete 21th century make-over . The character is revised and the makers begin with this movie from scratch , with showing Bond on his very first mission . We learn more about the character , such as why he threats women like he does . Bond in this movie is still a rough diamond that needs polishing . He doesn't respect his boss ( M ) and is very self-centered and uncontrolled in his actions and emotions . It shows Bond as a more humane and realistic character . I wasn't unhappy with the Pierce Brosnan Bond movies ( even though " Tomorrow Never Dies " and " The World Is Not Enough " weren't exactly the greatest ) , so for me it wasn't really needed to revise the character and give the series a complete make-over . Needless to say I was quite reluctant about this movie at first . That however ended after seeing the first trailer of the movie . Bond seemed to go back to its basics and the character seemed so much more interesting . My biggest complaint about the Brosnan Bond movies always had been that they featured to many ( needless ) SFX and massive big gun fights . I had always preferred the good old fashioned fist fights from the earlier Bond movies . This movie surely spoiled me with that ! The action was raw , bold and straight-forward and Bond used his fists more than his gunThe action is definitely one of the best I've seen in a long time . I already knew that Martin Campbell was a great action director , with movies such as " The Mask of Zorro " , " No Escape " and the other Bond movie " GoldenEye " behind his name . But the action in this movie surely surpasses his other work . The stunts are absolutely phenomenal and the action is brought well to the screen , also thanks to the editing from action movie specialist Stuart Baird . The action was filmed realistic , rather than just big and spectacular . In a way it made the action more intense and exciting to follow . Daniel Craig also proofs with this movie that he can play a great action hero . Step aside Ethan Hunt and Jason Bourne , Daniel Craig as James Bond is the new kid on the block and he is great ! He doesn't only handle the action well and convincing but also the Bond character . He makes the character more humane with emotions and shows that Bond can still be seriously wounded and emotionally touched . So he makes the action as well as the emotions work out . A real accomplishment , that not just every actor would had succeeded in . It shows that Daniel Craig is the perfect man to revise the character and form the base for later Bond movies and Bond actors as well . Because after this movie I'm sure of it ; Bond movies will continue to be made for at least the next 25 years and the series is far from dried up . The cast and crew really puts some new - and interesting life into the series . Craig succeeded in what Timothy Dalton tried to achieve with the Bond character and movies . ( But please note that I for one really liked the Dalton Bond and movies though . ) The rest of the cast is also good . The movie is well cast , rather than just putting some big names in it . Eva Green is a good and different sort of Bond girl and Mads Mikkelsen who already was a big star in Denmark now also introduces himself to the rest of the world , as the main villain of this movie . The movie isn't as casino game focused as the title and plot outline might suggest . Above all " Casino Royale " is still an action movie , rather than just a character-thriller with action in it . The movie is rather simple written with a simple story but than again , stories never really had been a big requirement for any James Bond movie . Still it doesn't make the characters all work out as effective as they could had been and it makes the movie also drag at points . There are some moments in the movie in between the action sequences in which nothing is really happening . It makes the movie sometimes unnecessary slow and unnecessary uninteresting . If I look at this movie purely as an action movie , it isn't the best one around . If you look at this movie as a part of the James Bond series , it's definitely one of the better ones . It explains why I can't really rate this movie any higher than an . Technically the movie is too lacking in story-flow , plot and characters to be considered a perfect one , even for action movie standards . Still I'm enthusiastic about this movie and can recommended to everyone , even if you aren't really familiar with any of the other Bond movies . This is the perfect movie to get ( re ) introduced to the character . This movie lays a good foundation for later ' new ' James Bond movies and I'm convinced of it that the movies , just like Daniel Craig as the character , will only get better and more like the ' old ' Bond movies ( so with gadgets , more humor , more sex etc . ) but still in the same new and more serious ' realistic ' approach of the character and the movie in general . Bond is dead , long life Bond !
Brutal action flick .	This is a very straight forward action flick with lots of violence and tough characters . Fans of the action genre will most definitely not be disappointed by this movie . From the start on , you know that this movie is a violent one that doesn't hold back . After we've seen the entire family of Frank Castle being killed ( and I mean every single last family member , both young and old ) you know that this movie is going to be different from most other action movies . It's a movie that is very straight forward and doesn't hold back but at the very same time it doesn't try to force , or go too much over-the-top . I think this is most probably thanks to the directing skills of Jonathan Hensleigh and the talented cast that was involved with this movie that makes it a very enjoyable , cool and still somewhat credible , summer-action-flick . The story is basically very simple and is set around one very simple good old fashioned concept ; vengeance , or maybe even better said ; punishment . It's not really a sort of action movie that needs much story . The characters , both the main ' hero ' and the main villain are interesting enough to carry the entire movie and make it a very pleasant one to watch . Even though the main ' hero ' is pretty dark and brutal himself , you still root for him because you understand him . Thomas Jane is pretty good as the leading man and he proves that he is a great and perhaps somewhat underrated action movie star . It's always a pleasure to see John Travolta in a villainous role and he certainly also does not disappoint in this movie . Same goes for Will Patton , who also was really great in this movie ( he's beginning to look old and fat now by the way . ) . Roy Scheider also shows up in a small role , or better said cameo as Frank Castle Sr . Kevin Nash plays a pretty cool role as a Russian hit-man . The fight sequence between him and the main character was one of the highlights of the movie to me . But seriously , were all those sequence's with the Punisher's neighbors really necessary ? I understand that they were put in the movie to still give the main character an humane and more soft side but the sequences just didn't worked out good enough and perhaps only were distracting from the main plot line . The sequences also are really a waste of Rebecca Romijn's qualities . She doesn't get to do anything good or interesting in the movie . Why did she even agreed to be in this ? It's nothing too memorable all and the action and story themselves are nothing more than average but it's the straight-forwardness of the movie that makes me regard this one as an above average one , that has more to offer than the average , simple action flick . The style of the movie also ain't bad and hopefully we'll hear more from director Jonathan Hensleigh ( who already is a successful writer of many well known action movies ) in the future .
Better than it gets credit for .	This movie will always be remembered for having both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy in it ( even though they're never a the same scene together . ) . It basically is a movie with zero story and is only filled with some slapstick and comical moments . It has some incredible good timed moments which provides the movie with some hilarious sequences and moments . The movie also works pretty good as a satire on Hollywood . Especially Stan Laurel shows his comical talent in a short scene . Also Oliver Hardy is good in a much bigger role . But real main character of the movie is played by Glenn Tryon who also really wasn't bad . Not a brilliant highly memorable silent comedy but it's well constructed and good for some laughs . It certainly deserves more credit .
A new hope : Adam Bertocci	This movie has something that other Star Wars " fan films " lack : Originality . While other fan films waste time on simple average stories set in woods with Jedi fighting the Sith and sometimes even if you're are lucky a bounty hunter with ( with all respect ) cheap looking effects , this movie doesn't have any of that . The story is very well written and I must say that it's nothing more then perfect ! The voice cast is excellent and so are the animations , especially Bail Organa looks superb ! And you can see that Adam Bertocci really understands film making . Only one small point of critic : The sound is sometimes pretty messed up , sometimes the sound or the music is too loud or too soft . But that's OK , it doesn't make the movie less pleasant to watch . I've seen lot's of Star Wars fan films in my life but this one is up there with the bests , along with " Troops " and " The Formula " , two other excellent and original fan films . Certainly a very entertaining animated movie . Don't stop making movies Adam ! P . S . : You must probably see " Lola Rennt " first , to fully understand this movie 100 %
Good looking , no doubt but lacking in its drama .	" Girl with a Pearl Earring " is a good looking movie but it's not a movie that leaves an huge impression afterward . Main problem with the movie is mainly the story in which rarely ever something actually happens . The movie is nothing more than a slow told story about the painter Vermeer and the house maid Griet . Their ' relationship ' is portrayed well in the movie and is build up nicely but the movie lacks real depth and substance . It doesn't particularly make " Girl with a Pearl Earring " an interesting movie to follow from start till finish . Even though the movie is only about 100 minutes short , it actually feels longer because the story is told slowly and subtle . Some fine looking sequences are the end result that are all beautiful to look at but still feel lacking when it comes down to the story and the emotions of the movie . The sets and cinematography are without doubt what makes this movie still work . It gives a beautiful and fairly detailed look into the 17th century life in Delft . Although it's still odd to see that Delft looks a surprising lot like Venice in this movie . No wonder , when I read the trivia section here , I found out that the sets for Delft used in this movie , were reused Venice sets from another movie . The acting is fair enough . Tom Wilkinson plays a deliciously ' villainish ' role , a sort of role in which he always shines . I wasn't really too happy with Colin Firth and Scarlett Johansson . All both of them did during this movie , was looking intense and both looked like they were about to burst out in tears , in all of their sequences . I know this was intentional and needed to tell the story with but to me it became a bit irritating after a while . They hardly ever say more than 1 sentence . It does provide some good sequences and moments and in the scene's with the both of them together it works out just fine but for the whole movie it's simply too much of the same and because of that it also looses its power and interestingness after a while . Yes , this movie is a typical case of style over substance but in this case the style is interesting enough to make this a good and certainly well watchable movie . A good looking and good told story but it lacks real depth and drama , to make the movie really interesting to follow .
Quite good , once the horror kicks in .	This review is of the longest available 184 minutes uncut version . Being not the biggest fan of movies based on Stephen King novels , I must say that this movie was a rather good one within its genre . Especially when considering that this movie got made as a made for TV mini-series . This means that the movie is not as gory as other genre movies from the same time period but this doesn't mean that the movie isn't just as atmospheric and scary than any other movie . The movie has a great atmosphere that is both mysterious and scary . Even though not a whole lot is happening within the movie , it still knows to be constantly perfectly atmospheric . Tobe Hooper is of course really a director who understand the genre ( at least in the ' 70's he still did ) and he directs the movie with lots of class and knowhow . It's a quite original vampire movie . To be honest , in advance I even had no idea that this movie was going to be a vampire movie , while first watching it . I had heard about the title " Salem's Lot " and also about the Stephen King novel but in all honesty I had no idea what it was all about . In that regard the movie pleasantly surprised me with its concept and the overall handling of it . But also it needs to be said that the movie isn't exactly the genre masterpiece some people make it out to be . It's way too flawed for that . For instance the pace . Well , I've watched the longest available 3 hour + version , so perhaps it has something to do with that but the movie has a bit of a slow pace and has lots of points within the movie in which just basically nothing is ever happening . Also when looking back at it , the first hour of the movie or so seems pretty pointless afterward . Also some characters just come and go within the movie . The first halve of the movie is still mostly about the citizens of Salem's Lot , while the second halve is only mainly about the main character Ben Mears . Seems like all other characters are just simply being forgotten and abandoned within the script , without reaching a satisfying conclusion for them . A shame really , also since a lot of characters showed some good potential . Some characters are some typical good trademark quirky Stephen King type of character . You could say that the movie is only truly good once the horror starts to kick in . The movie is effective with its horror and has a couple of memorable moments in it . It's also made great by the musical score from Harry Sukman . It's a real great genre score and also quite well known in the horror circles , which is of course quite an accomplishment for a score composed for a TV mini-series . It was the last musical score he ever composed as well . He didn't died until 5 years later , so I guess he thought it was time to enjoy his retirement after finishing the score for this production . A great way to end his career ! A surprising good genre movie , once its horror kicks in , that also deserves some more recognition .
Visually a great movie with great performances .	" The Madness of King George " is far from an excellent movie and a must see but nevertheless it's still both fun and wonderful to watch . The costumes and sets are great and Sir Nigel Hawthorne really carries the movie with his wonderful performance . The movie is more of a comedy than a drama really . The movie is filled with some humorous moments , dialogs and characters . Only problem I had with the movie was that it focused on way too many and unneeded characters . Also because of this , Sir Ian Holm's character gets seriously underused . A bit of an ungrateful role for Sir Ian Holm . They could have used his acting skills in a better manner . Basically the movie is just a little bit over 1 hour and 40 minutes of fun entertainment with some nice humor and an impressive Sir Nigel Hawthorne .
Helps you understand how one man could gain so much support and power .	" Hitler : The Rise of Evil " can be seen as a documentary with actors . It is interesting and educative to watch but too compressed and political correct at times . This TV movie could have used so more guts . Robert Carlyle was impressive as Hitler , helped by some subtle make-up effects . It's too bad that the rest of the supporting cast doesn't know to impress . Most of them just stay empty character with faces but without names . Peter O'Toole's small roll however was nice . The character the movie focuses on aren't always logical , it fails to focus on the interesting key element persons and those that are present are mostly nothing more as small cameo's . It is interesting that this movie also has some impressive WW I sequences in which Hitler fought as a soldier . The movie helps you to understand ( not sympathize ) how a man such as Hitler gained so much support politically and from the German people which is mainly why this movie is educative and important for people to see to help them understand . It's too bad that the movie stops just when it gets interesting , it was almost like they ran out of money and had to came up with an ending quickly . Interesting and educative .
A bit of a less serious Columbo movie , with a great Rip Torn in it .	All Columbo movies had a certain amount of relieving comedy in it but this movie can really be seen as a true comedy . It's more comical than other Columbo entries and its made more as a real comedy . It perhaps makes this movie harder to take serious than other Columbo movie entries but it of course also makes it more fun to watch as well . In that regard " Columbo : Death Hits the Jackpot " is a good and welcome , slightly different , Columbo movie entry . It's not like the movie isn't offering any mystery-thriller elements . It of course is still a Columbo movie with all of the right required genre elements in it and it still sticks to the usual successful Columbo movie formula as well . It's not like the movie is offering the best or most original story though . It's like a combination of many other previous Columbo movies in more than just a couple of ways , even more than usually is the case . But just because the movie isn't the most original doesn't mean is not the best one to watch . It's simply too well made for that . It also has some nice twists to it , though not all of them feel very likely . Not in the least the movie works out so well due to the acting performances . Rip Torn is just great in this . He's of course also part of the reason why this movie feels as such a comical one . He at first sight doesn't seem like the most logical choice to play the murderer in a Columbo movie but he simply truly suits his role very well . There also is some nice interaction between him and Peter Falk , who himself also seemed to be a bit improvising at times , which works out nice . The movie also has a great ending . Again , it's not really the most likely conclusion and way for Lt . Columbo to solve the murder but it nevertheless is a nice and original one . A pleasant little Columbo movie entry . Nothing too great or original but perfectly watchable due to its entertainment value .
Predictable fun .	This is one of those typical movies that is predictable in many ways and everything that occurs doesn't come as a real surprise . You know how this movie is going to end ( especially when you have already seen the original of course ) before you even start watching the movie . All of this however doesn't really matter and it's no complaint , for " Flight of the Phoenix " is well made , fun entertainment . Of course the movie doesn't come close to the original from 1965 with James Stewart , Richard Attenborough , Hardy Krüger and George Kennedy . But then again , this movie doesn't try to surpass the original . Instead it simply uses the ingredients and concept of the original to make a fun and entertaining movie with , by modern 2004 standards . It's a movie made without much ambition or potential , it's just made for the simple reason to give us the viewers , a fun 113 minutes . The movie is pretty well made and it has a good action movie style all over it . The special effects are great and so is the sound . There are some spectacular and well made sequences in the movie , of which the plane crash itself is of course one of the highlights . It's like a long , never ending action sequence in which a lot is happening and everything looks quite impressive and spectacular . It's a well constructed action sequence that on its own is reason enough who this movie is a watchable one . The editing is a bit lacking at times and some of the techniques used are just plain weird . Luckily the musical score by the underrated action-score composer Marco Beltrami is quite good one , on the other hand . There are some well known names in the movie and they all do their job well . Nothing really spectacular going on acting-wise but the actors are good enough to give the shallow , underdeveloped characters still a humane face and a more overall realistic feeling . Giovanni Ribisi was perhaps the only actor that really truly surprised me . This is a sort of role we haven't really seen him in and he did an amazing job and he really deserves credit for his performance . Will people still remember this movie in 10 years from now ? Probably not . Will people still enjoy watching this movie in 10 years ? Most definitely !
Simple short , that provides some good entertainment .	By no means this is the best short Laurel & Hardy film but it still one that offers some decent entertainment , which is thanks to the stupidity and clumsiness of the boys , especially Laurel's . The movie and its story are rather simple . It relies on simple one comical premise ; The boys trying to break in at the police chief's house , at the request of Officer Kennedy , so he can capture the boys later on and impress his chief , who is not very pleased with the 42 unsolved robberies committed on Officer Kennedy's watch . If the boys don't help Officer Kennedy out , they'll go to jail for 90 days for sleeping in a public park . Sometimes one simple comical premise is enough to fill an entire entertaining and hilarious movie with but the slapstick and moments in this movie begin to get rather tiresome after a while , since it's mostly more of the same , when the boys begin to try and break-in . The movie is perhaps lacking in great true comical originality but yet it's perfectly executed in the movie , which still makes sure that this movie is a very good and fun one to watch . The Laurel & Hardy regulars also make sure that this movie provides some great entertainment , such as James Finlayson as Meadows , the police chief's aid and Edgar Kennedy . Kennedy's role is rather limited down , almost to an non-comical one . Baldwin Cooke also shows up in a small part as one of the police officers . The comical situations and slapstick in the movie works out well , though it's never anything too original . It's one of the reasons why this movie is not really more than a slightly above average Laurel & Hardy short , that is perhaps a bit disappointing , despite its entertainment value .
The one directed by Spielberg .	This is the Columbo that got directed by Steven Spielberg at an early point in his career . It's nothing sensational but some small hint of great things to come for Spielberg can be seen in this movie . The movie is basically in the same style as most of Spierlberg's ' 70's movies and TV works . So that means that some characters tend to show some quirkiness's and no I'm not just talking about the Columbo character alone . The kind of character quirkiness which perhaps can be best seen in the 1975 Spielberg movie " Jaws " . But other than some small hints of typical early Spielberg elements , you can't call this movie the work of - and fine example of a rising director star . Not that its bad , of course it isn't but as I said earlier , it also isn't anything too sensational . This movie began really well and very promising but after it's fine opening , in which as always the murder occurred , the movie became sort of more slow and also dull to watch . Dull because it's mostly a Columbo movie by the book that doesn't have real memorable moments in it , not dull because it's a boring movie to watch . The murder itself was quite ingenious and the concept of having a crime story writer murdering his writing partner showed some great and interesting potential . The story however didn't really explored all of its possibilities . At least that's the feeling this movie left me with . The movie was still a good one to watch nevertheless thanks to the character of Jack Cassidy , who thinks he's smarter then Columbo , due to his mystery / crime writing experience and tries to give him all kinds of possible hints , leading away from himself . But of course Columbo knows better and he is his number one suspect from the first moment on but he as usual plays the game along . The movie does have a good overall style and uses some fine camera position and editing . Funny to see that also most of this was all mostly consistent with Spielberg's later work , especially some of the camera-angles . A fine and perfectly watchable Columbo movie but don't let the name of Spielberg attached to it rise your expectations for it too highly .
Bad storytelling but the style compensates for this .	" Peter Pan " is lacking on several levels , mainly due to the way the movie its story is told . Still this is a movie that is visually gorgeously looking and has some impressive special effects that all surpassed my expectations . Still " Peter Pan " remains a disappointing movie , mainly also because it has so many missed opportunities . The movie doesn't feel one bit adventurous or imaginative . It's almost as if the movie is taking itself way too serious . Also this is one of those movies that could had used some more humor and fun entertaining moments , like you would expect from a fantasy movie such as " Peter Pan " . Will kids enjoy this movie ? Not halve as much as " Hook " I'd say . But maybe the biggest missed opportunity of the entire movie is Jason Isaacs . I was excited when I first heard that he was going to play the famous captain Hook , I thought he would be perfect for the role . He was however highly underused in the movie and he didn't had an awful lot to do . I even liked him better in his role as the father Mr . Darling . Also most of the other characters are highly underused and underdeveloped . Smee , John , Michael and the lost boys don't seem to have a purpose at all in the movie and they could have easily been left out . The movie also does not feel coherent . At times the movie just jumps from one scene to another . It's almost as if there was some missing footage in between them . But yes of course the movie does has its moments and strong points . I kind of like the whole fairy dance sequences , which in my opinion is really cute and sweet and I like the way the love story between Peter and Wendy is portrayed . Jeremy Sumpter and Rachel Hurd-Wood are a nice sweet screen couple and there is some real chemistry between them on the screen . However I'm sure that in 10 years from now these two won't be in the business anymore , they will be one-day-flies . They are simply missing the talent to stay in the business . Really strongest point of the movie is the fantastic visual look it has . It has some really nice sets and some really splendid special effects . Also the musical score by James Newton Howard deserves praise . Even though as a movie this is a better one , I still find " Hook " to be a more recommendable movie than this one . This is mainly because this movie is lacking in adventure and fun moments . . . and it has no Dustin Hoffman as Hook . Yes , I know this movie follows the book of course more closely than Hook , which is an entirely different movie and story of course but I'm sure that the young ones will far more be entertained by it . Perhaps this movie will be best appreciated by adults . This movie could had been a great swashbuckling adventure ala " Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl " but sadly it ain't so . While watching this movie I also couldn't help thinking about one thing ; What if Tim Burton made a Peter Pan movie . How perfect would that be ? I couldn't think of one better director to truly capture the magic and story the Peter Pan book has . Wishful thinking , I know . Seriously , you're better of watching " Hook " or Disney's " Peter Pan " from
Slighty above average movie .	I don't really regarded this movie as a Laurel & Hardy comedy short . After all the first billed star of the movie is Priscilla Dean . Stan Laurel does have a big role in the movie as well but Oliver Hardy on the other hand plays a disappointingly small and not significant enough role in the movie . Fred Guiol never really has been the best or most original director of silent comedy shorts . This movie is typical for his style , its formulaic , simple but it serves its purpose . Thye movie does nowhere reaches the level of comedy excellence but there are some sequences and moments in the movie that still make this movie an above average one to watch . The movie nowhere surprises but it does entertain , so why complain about it ? I always found Stan Laurel to be the better comedy actor , than his counterpart Oliver Hardy and he does indeed once more proofs this by his role in this movie . He times well and his mimic is wonderful . This really is more of a Laurel movie than it is a Laurel & Hardy movie . Nothing too impressive but a well made and entertaining movie to watch nevertheless .
Unique movie . Not the greatest but still a great watch .	The idea of the movie is interesting but also a dilemma . How to bring a movie about smell to the screen ? The movie does this well , by creating an unique atmosphere , that is visually focused on the smells in the movie , to help and tell the story and make it understandable . You can say what you want about this movie but you have to admit that it's pure eye-candy to look at . Every sequences is unique on its own , with its fantastic visual looks . Big kudos to the cinematography , make-up , sets and costumes of the movie . Also the musical score is suiting for the movie its feeling . By watching this movie it becomes very obvious that it was based on a book . The movie does not really have one clear main plot line , in terms of having a beginning , middle and ending that all fit in with each other . It makes the movie a bit frustrating and overlong to watch at times , since it just isn't clear were the movie is trying to head to . It doesn't make " Perfume : The Story of a Murderer " the most easy movie to watch , although it definitely more accessible than the marketing and whole hype surrounding the movie suggest it is . Though I don't think I want to watch this movie again any time soon . It's a well directed movie and Tom Tykwer does a good job at keeping the story as ' down to Earth ' as possible , with the exception of 2 or 3 sequences , that were too significant and complicated to bring it to the screen in a simple way . Nevertheless , it in essence is a pretty unusual and inaccessible story , that is made perfectly understandable and accessible , due to the movie its directing . Seems like Tom Tykwer has a great future ahead of him . Can't say that I was always too happy about Ben Whishaw as the main lead of the movie . No , I don't think Ben Whishaw will grow into become a great well known actor . The supporting cast is significantly better with actors such as Dustin Hoffman and Alan Rickman , with John Hurt as the movie its narrator . All in all an unique viewing experience , that isn't among the best movies of the year but nevertheless is a real recommendable one .
It's a good movie but a bit too clean and friendly as well .	Well this movie just ain't no " Goodfellas " , even though it was definitely inspired by it . It's a pretty good movie on its own right but it just remains a bit too much on the safe and clean side to really regard this as a true great and effective gangster-movie . For a gangster movie it's just a too friendly one . This is like the light version of " Goodfellas " . Supposedly Bugsy Siegel was a big gangster boss with connections but when watching this movie it makes you wonder why and how all . Guess they were just too afraid we would begin to dislike the character once we saw him do a lot of brutal things and killing - and giving orders to kill lots of people , even though this all of course was more closer to the truth as the character that is being portrayed in this movie . This not just goes for the main character but also does around him . It especially also goes for Virginia Hill . Guess director Barry Levinson just wasn't the right guy for a movie such as this . So as a biopic of the real life gangster Ben ' Bugsy ' Siegel this just isn't a really good or insightful movie . The movie still became an acclaimed success though , mainly because gangster movies were popular at that time , which also explains why the movie received no less than 10 Oscar nominations and taking home 2 of them . It was made at the same time as movies such as " The Godfather : Part III " and " Goodfellas " got released . As a movie itself there isn't really much wrong with it . It's a good movie that follows a person that is following his dreams . Bugsy definitely seemed like a complicated and unpredictable character . He had some strange big ideas and really didn't knew how to handle money . It's a good movie and story on its own but as I said before , as a biopic or gangster movie it can't be really seen as a great one . The movie basically suffers from the same problems as " The Aviator " ; it's too much in love with its main character and forgets to show the ugly but realistic things about his life . Also seemed to me that Warren Beatty also didn't really knew how to handle the character . At times he's portraying him as a tough gangster , while at other moments it picks an even sort of like comical approach . Otherwise he plays well in the movie , just because he's such a darn fine actor , who has always starred in far to few pictures . His last movie already dates back again to 2001 . This is also known as the movie in which Warren Beatty and Annette Bening met and they got married 1 year later . Besides Bening and Beatty the movie also stars acclaimed stars such as Harvey Keitel , Ben Kingsley and Elliott Gould , in variating sizes of roles . It's of course never a punishment to watch any of these actors in any movies . It's a good movie , as long as you're not expecting a " Goodfellas " type of gangster-flick , even though it features basically the same style and narrative way of storytelling .
Different but not necessarily better .	This third Harry Potter movie is different from the previous two movies . " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " is darker and much more mature but not better than its predecessors . Yet again there are several things wrong with this Harry Potter movie . The movie starts of too slow with a completely wrong pace due to some poor editing . Once the movie really gets started you'll notice that there are several things different about this movie compared to the first two . No , I'm not just talking about the visual style or the fact that Harry and his friends are wearing ' normal ' clothes , I'm mainly talking about the two things that I missed most in the movie ; The humor and the adult cast . What made the first two Harry Potter movies excellent to watch was the perfect English adult cast with many big names . In " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " the adult cast is heavily underused . Gary Oldman who I normally love was way too plain and boring in this movie , I actually really wish now that he hadn't been in it . Odd thing is that they let the main adult character play by the fairly unknown actor David Thewlis . Micheal Gambon does his best but he really wasn't Dumbledore to me . Richard Harris scene's as Dumbledore always brought a smile on my face and I really enjoyed every scene with him , Gambon just plays the role very plain and I just couldn't like it . . . Problem is that the story takes itself too serious . The first two Harry Potter movies had a fun feeling especially between the three main characters and some good humor . In " Harry Potter the Prisoner of Azkaban " everything is far more serious and less fun . The story also gave me the feeling that it wasn't very original all . It seems like J . K . Rowling uses a bit too many parts and elements from different fantasy genres . Good news is that the special effects are looking great . Another great thing was that there were some nicely done acting sequence's such as the werewolf scene which I found quite good . It is still good entertainment , especially for children and the Potter fans , although the movie probably is too scary for the very young ones .
Yet another entertaining Moore Bond flick .	This movie is yet another example of how entertaining the Roger Moore Bond movies are . What a great fun Bond this movie is ! Yet again the movie is full with car chases , beautiful woman , underwater scene's and chases in the snow . In other words a Typical Bond flick . But that also is the only problem with this movie , it isn't really original or special enough . Roger Moore plays the Bond character with lot's of humor and delivers some fine and funny one liners throughout the movie in his own typical way . The movie is filled with some wonderful and stereotype Bond villains . Julian Glover plays the main villain that for once doesn't want to destroy or take over the world . John Wyman plays the stereotype strong villain and Emile Leopold Locque that doesn't speak one word during the entire movie is a wonderful villain who's played by Michael Gothard whom unfortunately committed suicide 11 years later . Carole Bouquet is my personal favorite Bond girl of all time , mainly because she doesn't act or look like a typical Bond girl and because of her cool crossbow ! The crazy hip 80's soundtrack is from Bill Conti . The music still work surprising well for the movie even though it is heavily outdated . The wonderful theme song is from Sheena Easton and is one of the better ones . One of the most entertaining Bond flicks that is very re-watchable .
A nice and spectacular action flick . Nothing more , nothing less .	I expected the worst . No Bryan Singer , the previews didn't looked very good and the critics were not exactly raving about the movie . But really , the movie was not as bad as I expected it to be . On the contrary . The movie is a good looking and spectacular science-fiction / action that is perhaps lacking in the same depth and layers the previous two X-Men movies had but it's good and entertaining enough on its own . In essence " X-Men : The Last Stand " is a good looking and spectacular action flick . This is perhaps not what the fans hoped and expected it to be but the neutral , unbiased viewer will be surely entertained by the movie . There are plenty of action sequences in the movie to thrill and please the viewer but even superior are the special effects . No expenses were spared , with as a result some spectacular looking action - but also non-action sequences . It makes the movie good looking and entertaining at the same time . It's a bit of a shame that with the many new characters and different new plot lines the movie yet fails to create some depth and make the story more multiple layered and meaningful , as the previous two X-Men movies were . This is probably due to the short running time of the movie ; 104 minutes . It doesn't leave the movie any room to flesh out the characters and create some more plot lines with depth and emotions . The movie is a bit shallow and simple at times . The movie has plenty of emotions in it ( the death of characters , love-stories ) but yet the movie fails to ever get emotional , due to this previous mentioned reason . It doesn't make the movie halve as powerful as it perhaps could had been . The movie brings back lots of old character from the previous two movies but also introduces some new ones . This time Storm plays a bigger role in the movie just as Jean Grey , who sort of is the central character of the movie and plays a key-part . It gives the both actresses Halle Berry and Famke Janssen more chance to show their great acting skills . It has as a result that some of the characters are pushed to the back ( Rogue , Cyclops , among others ) though . The movie also introduces some new characters such as Beast , Juggernaut and Angel . Beast is perfectly played by Kelsey Grammar , who fits the role like a glove . And don't ask me why but I have the feeling that Ellen Page ( Kitty Pryde ) is going to be a big star someday . Angel seems like a sort of redundant character , since he hardly plays a role in the movie , though he is yet often prominently present . But I guess it's OK , since he'll obviously play a more significant role in future X-Men movies and this movie was merely used to introduce his character , very much like was the case with Iceman , Pyro and Colossus in the previous movie , who all also play a role again in this movie . The villains might perhaps this time not come across as intriguing and prominent as in the previous two movies but that is due to the fact that the true enemy this time in the movie is not a person but it's ' the cure ' . Nevertheless Ian McKellen still impresses as Magneto , who by now surely has grown out to be one of the best and most memorable villains of this decade . Not only the special effects look good but so does the cinematography by Dante Spinotti and so does the action editing , that always keeps the pace high and the movie interesting . The musical score from John Powell also impresses and works very well in the movie . It all in all is one of the better and more entertaining action movies of the year , with a fantastic ending that leaves the door open for ( hopefully ) more sequels .
A more film-noir type of approach Columbo movie .	I sort of liked this Columbo movie its atmosphere , which was real thriller like and its approach even at times reminded me of film-noir , in the movie its first 30 minutes or so . It's really nice and done in a good old fashioned way , with the right camera angles and use of light . It doesn't mean instantly that this movie is a brilliant one though but its solid enough to consider this a good late Columbo movie entry . It's definitely a better movie than the average ' later ' Columbo movie entry . 26 years after his previous Columbo movie appearance , George Hamilton returns once again to play the main lead opposite Peter Falk , again as the murderer , in a total different and new role of course . I liked him in his role and he was a good Columbo ' villain ' , who gave the good old Lieutenant some good competition . They had some nice sequences together . Problem with the ' modern ' new Columbo movies always sort of had been that it didn't feature a good well known actor opposite Peter Falk . This movie obviously doesn't suffer from this problem . But I must say though that this movie doesn't feature Peter Falk at this best . He has certainly played the character better and his performance isn't quite consistent enough within this movie , which is probably also due to he movie its director Daryl Duke , who also directed the really dreadful movie " Tai-Pan " , among many other projects . It has a rather good and enjoyable story but the fact that the same sort of plot to cover up the murder had been used before in an earlier Columbo movie also doesn't help of course . It got used before in the 1975 movie " Columbo : Playback " . Nevertheless it of course also still has plenty enough ' original ' moments of its own with its story , even though of course in essence every Columbo movie is more or less the same . But oh well , that is what made the Columbo series so great and consistent . If it ain't broke don't fix it . It also is true that within this movie more clues than usual are left out for the Lieutenant , which doesn't mean that the movie its murderer is more stupid or sloppy but I more see it as the writers being more overly enthusiastic than others . It doesn't make the movie or story bad and it in fact perhaps even makes it more enjoyable , to see Columbo hard at work and discovering all kind of small but important clues . Luckily the movie is also filled with some enjoyable effective relieving Columbo-comedy . Simply a good late Columbo movie entry .
Entertaining , though shallow .	This is a perfectly good and entertaining movie to watch . However as a biopic the movie remains pretty shallow and we never fully get to understand the character , though that also would had been virtually impossible , considering who's the subject of the movie . Not really Milos Forman's fault that the movie remains too shallow , since he's obviously capable of making an unsympathetic and unpredictable character accessible and likable ( watch " The People vs . Larry Flynt " , for instance ) . This movie doesn't ever really gives us an impression of the real Andy Kaufman . It's hard to tell in the movie when he's trying to be serious and when he's joking around . This is also due to Jim Carrey's acting . If you look at footage of the real Andy Kaufman you'll notice how incredibly natural and subtle his humor is He's not ever acting , he's just natural . Jim Carrey , no matter how great he is in his role , is clearly acting and playing a character . Guess that Andy Kaufman just wasn't the right subject to pick . He was too complex and unpredictable to make a fascinating and engaging biopic about . It has always been hard to define Andy Kaufman , since he was not your ordinary comedian and never referred to himself as being one . Having watched this movie , I still have no idea of who the real Kaufman was and what drove him and went on in his head . Don't get me wrong , Carrey is great , I mean he gets really absorbed by its character but he just isn't Kaufman . It perhaps makes his performance - as the entire movie a bit overrated . It's fun to see that lots of persons involving Kaufman's life and career play themselves in this movie such as most of the " Taxi " cast , Jerry Lawler and David Letterman . But the movie also features some other great ' real ' actors such as Danny DeVito , Vincent Schiavelli , Paul Giamatti and Courtney Love . The movie focuses on Kaufman's entire career as a comedian ( and wrestler ! ) . Obviously a lot to put in a merely 2 hour movie but the movie manages very well to put the interesting and groundbreaking legendary things of his career into the movie . It also makes sure that the movie always keeps pace , though its not always for the best of the movie . Basically in a 15 minutes time-span we go from the beginning illness , to Kaufman's Carnegie Hall performance and his death . The movie doesn't leave much room for thinking . Perhaps also a reason why the movie remains pretty shallow , though the movie still has some good emotions in it . So the story-flow is a little offbeat at times and things happen to fast and are forgotten in the next sequence again . It's perhaps the only flow in the otherwise great directing ( though the audience reaction in the movie were also distractingly overdone at times with lots of over-the-top laughing and standing ovations , as if Kaufman was some sort of God to everyone . ) and entertainingly written story . It's definitely true that the movie focuses on the more merry aspects of Kaufman's life . For instance the birth of his give up for adoption child with his only 17 year old girlfriend is not mentioned at all in any form in the movie . The movie focuses on the humorous side of life and is made in the same style as Kaufman's kind of humor . Guess that the movie is pretty much like Kaufman himself would had liked it But even if you weren't a Kaufman fan , I think this movie would be still one worth watching . It's greatly directed with good productions values and a solid cast . More entertaining than engaging or interesting really .
The Terminator's predecessor .	The combination between western and sci-fi can be called unique and it works surprising well . It is too bad that " Westworld " looks a bit too much outdated today to be considered a great movie . Still some of the special effects look acceptable even though they are typical seventies ( especially the computers , lot's of flashing lights , big silly buttons , etcetera ) . The story is very original although it takes some time before it gets really started , only halve way through the movie the movie gets really interesting and exciting and some of the story lines are only distracting and needless . But as I said the second halve is really exciting especially because of Yul Brynner who was really convincing and scary as a robot . He really reminded me of an early Terminator and wouldn't it have been great to have seen Yul Brynner as the Terminator or one of the Terminator villains like the T-1000 . The ending however was a bit disappointing like often is the case in " old " movies . I really love the way how they portrayed and made the wild West look , it really reminds you of an old classic western , complete with some nice moody music . But what was with James Brolin ? He acted so weird like he was drunk all the time and couldn't care what was going on halve of the time . No I didn't liked him and it made the friendship between him and Richard Benjamin's character seem very unlikely . But oh well . . . Solid sci-fi movie that was ahead of it's time .
Nostalgic value = 10 , quality = 5 .	" Als je begrijpt wat ik bedoel " is based on a very popular Dutch cartoon figure which whom whole generations grew up with . The movie knows to capture the comic book feeling on screen , which makes the nostalgic value of the movie very high . Even though the movie has a fun feeling the undertone is dramatic and emotional , which is the most powerful thing of the movie . It is a movie that even the most tough adults will be moved by and it isn't unusual for some to shed some tears . The character ( even though they are animals ) are very humane and realistic which makes the emotions work even better . The characters are brought to life by an excellent voice cast . The quality however is not very good . The movie looks sloppy and outdated . The animations are pretty standard and simple but effective . There are some weird musical numbers that are far from good and also the music itself doesn't quite seem to fit the movie and is used at weird periods throughout the movie . See it for the nostalgic value , however if you live outside the Netherlands or Belgium you can not fully appreciate this movie and it might not be worth your time .
Nice action flick	The combination of humor and action is excellent ! The movie begins great and it's too bad that later on it becomes a macho style action movie with very unbelievable stunts and unlikely situations . Maybe with a different director it would have been a better movie and maybe then I would rank it higher on my favorite action movie list . Nevertheless the movie is still entertaining and worth watching which is mainly because of Samuel L . Jackson's character , his one-liners are pure gold ! Also Brian Cox's character is more then excellent and both provide the funny and the best moments of the movie . Geena Davis however is not the most talented actress I've ever seen but she pulls off the action sequences quite well . The movie also lacks some good villains and their motives are a bit unlikely even for an action movie . Nevertheless still better then the average action movie and the movie ends with one of the most spectacular explosions I've ever seen . Yep , Renny Harlin sure knows how to use and make explosions ( also see Cutthroat Island and Die Hard 2 to know what I'm talking about ) Nice action flick !
Pretty fun spoof of murder-mystery movies / plays .	As a spoof of murder-mystery movies and plays this movie is great fun . It has all the clichés from that genre in it and perfectly spoofs those clichés and characters in this movie . The movie has the usual suspects in it and a police inspector ( Fred Kelse ) who tries to solve the case . Yes , like I said before , it perfectly spoofs some of the murder-mystery clichés . As a spoof it sill applies today . The ' spooky ' elements of the movie are also a welcome addition and provides the movie with some fun moments . Seeing the boys being chased by a white-sheet is a pretty funny sighting . Frank Austin is also perfectly spooky as the stereotype old butler . Too bad that the pace of the movie isn't the best at times . The movie is dragging on for too long at times , which makes some of the jokes feel stretched out a bit too much . It overall does have its moments , especially when it spoofs the murder-mystery genre but it's a bit too much dragging movie to find it a hilarious one , or a must-see for the Laurel & Hardy lovers among us .
A movie made effective by its approach .	What this movie does well is not showing too much . This could had easily turned into a cheesy monster-flick , in which you see a guy dressed up as a scarecrow killing people . The scarecrow actually isn't shown until the very end it is being implied often in the movie that the killer is not a ghostly scarecrow rising from the grave to take revenge upon his killers but a normal person of flesh and blood who has their own motivation to kill the bad men . It relies further more on a very simple plot but due to its approach it works out original and effective nevertheless . Not that the movie is a very scary one but it still turns into a creepy and atmospheric one , when you're not fully knowing what is going to happen next . The movie is definitely less worth and cheesy than its title at first sight might suggest . You could say that the movie doesn't show much and doesn't has any gore in it because it's a cheaply made for TV movie . That might be so but however the movie simply uses this to its own benefit . In this case less is more within this movie . Director Frank De Felitta actually directed a couple of more made for TV horror movies like this throughout his career and it's short of a shame that he never really broke through . Although I don't know if his movies would had been better though if they had a bigger budget and a global world wide theatrical release . He actually made one big movie in his career , starring Sharon Stone which did flopped . The movie doesn't feature the world's best actors ( though Charles Durning has done some good things throughout his career ) but this suits the movie and its atmosphere and style well . It is a surprising sight though seeing Marlon Brando's older sister Jocelyn Brando in this . It also was weird seeing Larry Drake in this , as a retarded man , who can only think and act like a child . It was weird seeing him as this , since Larry Drake to me while always be that tough criminal Durant from the " Darkman " movies . A movie really worth watching .
Movie made interesting by Hanks .	The success of the movie is mainly thanks to Tom Hanks performance that awarded him his first Oscar nomination . The story and the movie itself are pretty simple and a bit corny at times but who really cares ? It is a family movie and doesn't need any complexity . The only thing that troubled me about the story was that Josh did all kind of things that an 12 year old would never do when he finds himself in a grown up body . Instead of doing all kind of grown up things and taking advantage of it in certain situations , he chooses to do all kind of playful things , which was a bit corny and simple in my opinion but that's why it's a family movie . It sounds weird but I think this movie is already a bit outdated even though it is only 16 years old . The story and the toys and the use of it are the main reasons why I think it is outdated and why kids might not find this movie so appealing as kids did 16 years ago . Also , the typical ' 80's soundtrack ( you know what I mean ) doesn't make the movie any younger . The characters and the actors are good . John Heard plays aside from Tom Hanks a good role . Above average comedy that is worth seeing but that will not stand the test of time .
Quite a standard movie and story but brought well to the screen by cast & crew .	Lets face it . The ' film-noir ' period was already over its peak and as good as death already in 1965 , when this movie was released . This movie is a late attempt to revive the film-noir genre , with some big names involved . They partly succeeded . The movie works quite well as a crime / thriller movie but it lacks the certain style , characters and subtle style of film-making to consider this movie a good attempt at the film-noir genre . All of the classic ingredients are present here but everything doesn't always connect very well . Some of the story lines are underdeveloped and it often leaves more questions than answers . I still don't fully understand what the point was of the robbery / killing in the beginning of the movie . Some of the events in the movie feel silly but it luckily doesn't make the movie any less pleasant to watch . So even though everything in the movie is far from flawless it still is a good enough crime / thriller to watch . The main plot line isn't anything too terribly exciting but it's told in a good way . Director Ralph Nelson brought the standard and thin story well to the screen and even manages to make the movie look exciting , thrilling and surprising . The musical score by Lalo Schifrin is quite odd but its suits the movie very well and therefor I liked it . The characters and cast are good and interesting . OK so Alain Delon might not be the best leading man but the supporting cast certainly compensates for this . Ann-Margret shows she is a great actress although she mainly only does some screaming and crying in this movie . It gets a bit too much after a while . Van Heflin and Jack Palance were also great and John Davis Chandler beautifully plays a ruthless villainous looking villain . He absolutely stole the show in most of the sequences he was present in . A good enough crime / thriller that deserves to be seen .
Too bad about the story .	The movie is filled with beautiful images and moments , too bad that the story is far from interesting . " Backdraft " possibly has the best scene's with fire in it ever . The scene's with fire are truly beautiful mainly because the fire is treated as a living breathing thing with a will of it's own . Fire is actually a very beautiful thing , too bad it's just so dangerous and deadly . The beginning is truly wonderful and actually one of my all time favorites mainly because of the most excellent music by Hans Zimmer . However right after the wonderful beginning the movie becomes slow and kind of dull and only really becomes interesting when fires occur . The main problem is the story , it simply isn't interesting enough and only works distracting . It has a nice brother-relation story in it though , but it can't save the story . Also the ending is way too much over the top , beautiful but just too much over the top . The cast is solid and full with big names . Kurt Russell , Scott Glenn and J . T . Walsh are excellent however Robert De Niro and Donald Sutherland are given pretty ungrateful roles and are a waste of talent and opportunity to make the story a whole lot more interesting or at least more convincing . Still the fire scene's makes up surprising much and they alone make this movie more then worth to watch . They are really very spectacular !
Lugosi + Karloff = Fireworks !	I can't imaging how this movie would have been without both Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff , probably very very bad . The chemistry between the two is amazing . This is one of those movies in which the story absolutely doesn't matter . The story is totally absurd and very simple ( The black cat storyline has absolutely nothing to do with the movie and serves no purpose at all ) but yet that is what maybe makes this movie extremely fun and easy to watch . Watching this movie made me realize something ; Bela Lugosi actually was a very good actor that was ahead of his time . The way he delivers his lines and his eye for details shows that acting was a great passion for him . Yes I think I can now be considered one of his fans . Another great thing were the sets that were wonderful and even now 70 years later they still look very modern . Don't expect a movie with ghouls and monsters , it rather is more fun to watch then it is scary and the Lugosi / Karloff combination is what makes this movie a real classic .
Worthy last Bond for Connery .	And then I'm not counting " Never Say Never Again " as a Bond of course since it's not an official part of the series . Yet there is another entertaining and typical Bond story with again Ernst Stavro Blofeld ( Charles Gray ) Bond's arch-nemesis as the main villain . The movie uses all the typical Bond ingredients but is still original enough and has a couple of memorable scene's and some great characters . Especially Mr . Wint ( Bruce Glover ) and Mr . Kidd ( Putter Smith ) are very memorable as both assassins as well as lovers . They are a great screen couple and even the fact that Putter Smith can't act doesn't ruin that . Funny thing about " Diamonds Are Forever " is that it's a typical Roger Moore Bond even though Sean Connery plays Bond in this one . The humor is very similar to the later Roger Moore Bonds and Sean Connery certainly portrays the most fun Bond out of his career . Then the most important thing : The Bond girl . Finally a good Bond girl again , Jill St . John plays one of the best Bond girls out of the long series of Bond movies . But even better is Lana Wood as Plenty O'Toole that unfortunately only has a very limited role . Watching " Diamonds Are Forever " is 2 hours of pure entertainment . Far from the best Bond but it serves it's purpose .
Great horror fun with Vincent Price .	Mix horror with some typical British humor and the result is " Theatre of Blood " . And a quite successful mix it is ! times the combination of horror and comedy doesn't work . For " Theatre of Blood " it works perfectly ! The movie at times is pretty gruesome and graphic but still the movie is light to watch because of the fun undertone it has . Vincent Price deserves the most credit , he plays his character with great fun and humor and really is in his element as Shakespearean actor . The excellent music also adds to the fun of the movie . It gives some of the scene's a truly comical aspect and feeling , such as the fencing scene . The story is just mostly fun as long as you don't take it all too seriously . If you do that , you'll have great fun watching this movie and you'll enjoy the legendary Vincent Price his performance .
An unusual detective story .	What I expected was an horror movie , what I got was a mystery movie . It was a pleasant surprise ! " Sleepy Hollow " is stylish , dark and it has a typical atmosphere , in other words it's a typical Tim Burton movie . But having seen almost every Tim Burton movie I have to come to the conclusion that this one isn't his best movie . But does that mean it's a bad movie ? Not at all ! The cast is impressive and full with stars like : Johnny Depp , Christina Ricci , Michael Gambon , Christopher Lee , Ian McDiarmid , Christopher Walken and many , many others . but thank God the cast isn't a celebrity overkill ( such as in " A Bridge too Far " is the case . ) . Especially Depp as in every Tim Burton movie is brilliant ! Let's hope this wasn't their last movie together . Two other things that stood out were the production design ( very beautiful and typical Tim Burton sets ! ) and the musical score by Danny Elfman . Another thing that deserves to be mentioned are the costumes . Although the movie can be qualified as an horror film the movie never really gets scary and I don't think it was intended to be . The movie is too fun and entertaining to be . The movie has some nice dialogue especially for Ichabod Crane the Johnny Depp character . However there are some missed opportunities in the script and the conspiracy theories and when everything comes together at the ending might be a bit too much for a movie like " Sleepy Hollow " that should be light to watch . Also I wouldn't have minded the movie to be a few minutes longer . Nevertheless the are some wonderful moments and lot's of things that make this movie worth watching such as all the headless horseman scene's for which Ray Park did most of the fight scene's . All in all I see no reason why you shouldn't watch this movie !
In its core , it's a pretty awesome movie !	The movie is really good looking but also surprising to see how much the techniques have outdated already . I remember when the movie came out how impressive and revolutionary it all looked . People were actually worried that soon real actors would be replaced by computer animated characters and the way of film-making would change forever . On my most recent viewing I wasn't that impressed anymore and thought that especially the facial expressions looked quite wooden . Amazing how fast and how much computer animated techniques still evolve every year . Who knows , maybe in 50 years from now people would look at this movie and call this the ' first step ' in the direction of revolutionary new film-making . This movie was much hated and also bombed at the box office , although I think that the professional critics were really that negative about it . I actually remembered this movie receiving more praise than hate from them . It was the audience that caused this movie to fail and bomb , although the movie itself is also to blame for that . It really wasn't the best choice to include ' Final Fantasy ' into this movie its title , since this movie has really nothing to do with the immensely popular game series , with the same name , from the same director and company . It was the reason why people disliked and even hated the movie . Who knows , with a completely different name and marketing , this movie might had become an huge and popular hit . The quality for it is definitely there . The story is original and interesting enough and its look and style also definitely makes this movie one well worth watching . The story is quite unusual , since it prominently features some spiritual subjects . The entire main plot line relies on this . Yet the story is told in such an easy and understandable way that you start believing in the story , even though it gets highly unusual at times , especially toward the ending . With just the story of the movie , the movie really wouldn't had been a good one to watch . It therefor features also lots of action sequences . Some of the moments and characters reminded of movies such as " Aliens " and " Starship Troopers " . It was obvious that the movie was also inspired by this . The movie would certainly had been bad and a bore without the Deep Eyes , the military characters of the movie . It makes the movie great and pretty awesome to watch , The movie is also definitely helped by the fact that it has a great , Nazi looking and Nazi like acting villain , voiced by the incredible James Woods . The character has such a great evil look in the movie , without exaggerating things too much . All of the characters but especially the environments and aliens are greatly animated . It's awesome to see the streets of a post-apocalyptic New York City , with lots of details in it . The movie features some great big and impressive looking sequences . All the characters are being voiced by some well known actors , such as ; Ming-Na , Alec Baldwin , Ving Rhames , Steve Buscemi , Peri Gilpin , Donald Sutherland and the earlier mentioned James Woods . These are not only great actors but also persons with great voices . So great casting work here ! Also the musical score by Elliot Goldenthal is surprisingly great . He doesn't compose an awful lot of big scores but when he does , the end result is always something special and great . Of course the movie isn't as great as it could had been and it has some missed opportunities with its story and characters . Nevertheless a perfectly great and entertaining movie to watch !
Way more professional than the first .	The first " Basket Case " movie looked like it was made on a shoe-string budget . It also featured some horrible acting and directing . But director Frank Henenlotter obviously had learned since and gained more experience . The movie is more consistent this time , also in its pace . There was obviously some more money to spend this time , compared to the first movie . The movie is overall more professional looking and so is the Belial character . There is more movement and detail in the guy . It's professionalism also makes this an overall more effective genre movie . Luckily the movie obviously also doesn't take itself very serious , which in the end also is this movie its strongest point . It knows it's ridicules and it actually exploits this by putting in more ridicules new looking characters and silly moments and dialog and the actors also seem to be totally aware of this . It's also a reason why this movie is a totally pleasant genre movie to watch . It knows it's a and cult-movie and it doesn't resists against it . Not in the least of course due to the later success and cult following the first movie received . Kevin Van Hentenryck is still as horrible as ever before in his acting but they cleverly resolved this by putting in way more characters this time , so the entire focus of the movie this time isn't just upon Duane and Belial . It also lets Duane act more as a psycho this time , which also allows Van Hentenryck to do his bad overacting and make him get away with it . The story is of course silly but it also still is a notch up when compared to the first movie . It's at least more layered , also of course due to the fact that there are more characters in it this time . But no , overall you can't really call the movie anything more than just plain silly . Fun but silly . Supriningly much better than the first movie , due to the fact it was made with more money and people involved and because the movie luckily doesn't take itself serious at all . It makes sure that you as a viewer also just can't take it serious at all and therefor lets you sit back and just enjoy the ride !
Good enough ' 30's Hitchcock thriller .	Alfred Hitchcock always had obviously been inspired by the early 1920's Russian way of film-making , especially Sergei Eisenstein's work . This perhaps best shows in this movie , in its style of editing , camera-positioning and crowed sequences . This perhaps makes this movie a bit more outdated than others but it shows how Hitchcock tried out different things and techniques to develop his style and redefine the thriller genre . It's a movie that definitely would had been a better one had it been made 10 years later , with its more modern film-making techniques . This goes for quite some of the most earliest Hitchcock movies , which also really proofs that Hitchcock was a director who was ahead of his time . The fact that this is a ' 30's thriller and directed by Hitchcock of course makes this a more special than average movie . The thriller genre wasn't that well established in the ' 30's and it was Hitchcock among others that pretty much defined the genre , that really started to take off in the ' 40's , with its WW II theme based spy thrillers mostly , which also triggered more and more general thriller movies to be made during that particular time period . The movie does has some trademark Hitchcock suspense moments and twists , which should really especially please the Hitchock fans . Yet this isn't one of the great Hitchcock movies . It's story is far too weak and simple for that . There basically is very little story and character development , something early Hitchcock movies still often lacked . Also nothing gets really explained in the movie . Here is this situation and here are those characters but why and how just never gets handled . A good watchable thriller , as long as you're not expecting one of Hitchcock's masterpieces .
Interesting different take on the spy-genre .	At the time of this movie , James Bond of course absolutely dominated the spy-genre . This movie tries to be different , by not using too much action or a true evil mastermind villain that tries to take over or destroy the world . It chooses a more realistic approach , which seems all the more silly when considering that the story is far from a likely one . Seemed that producer Harry Saltzman , who also produced multiple James Bond movies , until the mid-'70's , wanted to completely dominate the spy-genre in every form . It also explains why this movie uses many crew-members , who were also involved with making the James Bond movies ; Composer John Barry , editor Peter R . Hunt , production designer Ken Adam , art director Peter Murton , the movie being shot at the Pinewood studios . They also had the intention to make this movie the beginning of a long running series of Harry Palmer movies . 4 later movies involving Caine playing the Palmer character followed but over the course of 30 years . So you can't really say it was a truly successful series of movies , at least no in the way they intended it to be . The story is confusing , with its many different character names and spy-terms and codes . However once you've figured the story out completely you'll note that its actually a rather weak and thin one , with also some bad dialog in it . They just tried to make it seem more difficult and complicated than it in fact really was . The story moves slow , which also doesn't make this the most interesting or exciting movie to watch . The movie starts to take more pace in its second halve but the movie at the same time then starts to become more ridicules and hard to take really serious . But really , the movie is still a good watch . It's a different and in a way also a quite experimental movie , which makes this all the more a good watch . Also the directing and acting makes this a good movie to watch . The innovative and experimental cinematography is from Otto Heller , who is fairly unknown but has made some great movies during his career . It's the kind of camera-work you would normally expect to see in an ' 70's movie . The characters are all as British as they can get , with their heavy accents and gentleman attitudes . Michael Caine once more plays a slick , ' bad-boy ' kind of person who also is of course a real lady-killer . Caine was specialized in these sort of roles and one year later he played his ultimate lady-killer role in " Alfie " . Simply a good movie but a tad too confusing and ridicules in parts to consider it a real genre classic .
Good but it's missing something .	This is simply a good quality movie to watch but it nevertheless leaves you hungry for more , since the movie its potential and concept screamed for a better and more exciting execution . After all , this movie is about the last man living in New York City , battling a whole bunch of mutant zombie , while trying to find a cure to the virus that almost entirely wiped out mankind . It's basically its potential that still makes this such a fine movie to watch but the movie however is just not as action packed or tense / scary as you would expect beforehand . It does make the movie perhaps a bit of a missed opportunity and it does has some wasted potential in it , which does give you the feeling that the movie is missing something but it fortunately doesn't make this movie any less pleasant to watch . First of it all , it's absolutely something great to see New York City entirely being overgrown by plants and wild life . It's above all very good and convincing looking and basically this alone is already enough to make " I Am Legend " a real recommendable movie . They did a real good job with it , although this effort apparently went at the expense of some of the movie its other effects . It's a mixed bag really . The one moment the effects are great looking , while the other its totally apparently too fake looking , especially for 2007 standards really . It's also really a tough movie for Will Smith , since well basically he has no one to play against , except for a dog . Still he knows to carry the movie brilliantly . Leave it up to Will Smith to make a successful blockbuster , which " I Am Legend " really was at its time of release . It's story gets obviously a bit restrained because , well how much stuff can you come up with for a movie that is being completely set in a large deserted city . They tried to give the story something extra by putting in an occasional flashback sequence but I don't think they were really in the right places and completely necessary for the movie . It probably would had worked out better if there were more and constant flashback sequences in the movie , completely explaining and showing how mankind got almost completely exterminated and everything involving around that . It still sort of gives you the feeling that they could had worked out the script better , also since the movie its ending really isn't completely satisfying ( and yes , if seen both different versions of the ending . ) It's one fine big budget quality movie . It's just missing this tiny bit of extra to make this movie a true tense , action packed or completely memorable movie to watch you'll talk about for years to come . Appereantly a sequel is currently in the making , lets hope it will include this extra elements required to make it a real great movie to watch .
Not entirely my cup of tea but it simply is a good , well made movie .	I'll confess that this is not entirely my favorite genre . I like some British costume drama's , as long as they have some quirkiness added to it , such as for instance is the case in such movies as " Barry Lyndon " , " The Draughtsman's Contract " and " Dangerous Liaisons " . This movie is more in the style and mind of a Jane Austen novel , which is just not the type of movie for which I sit down and enjoy watching . But nevertheless that doesn't mean I'm totally blind for the quality this movie got made in . Its Oscar nominations ; Best Actress in a Leading Role , Best Cinematography , Best Costume Design and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium , are all certainly ones I can agree with . Add to that the costume design and you have the 5 elements that make this a good and certainly perfectly watchable movie . What I like about the story is that it features an original love-triangle . It's not the type of love-triangle you would just expect and it also makes the movie as a whole original not entirely predictable to watch . It's well layered and executed in the movie . It however perhaps too long for the movie to take shape . Basically the first halve of the movie totally couldn't interest me and it was standard , slow and just not that interesting . However the second halve , from the moment on the movie gets set in Venice , really made up a lot for me . The movie is set at the early 20th century , which is not the most usual time period for this type of movie . However , if you would had told me the movie was set in the late 19th century I would had also believed it . Basically it are only the cars and phones that give away that this movie is set in the 20th century . The rest of the movie just feels and looks the same as any other costume drama set during a more common earlier time period . The sets and costumes for this time period are just fantastic . Not just for the Venice sequences but also really for the sequences set in London . The movie is also not as heavy handed as it might sound and as you perhaps would expect . The movie mostly remains on the shallow safe side , until heads toward its very ending . It often makes this a bland and rather formulaic movie to watch , despite its hospitality . I think you can blame director Iain Softley , who directed his movie rather static and standard . Or perhaps blame the ' 90's , which just wasn't the most style-full period for movie making . A good and certainly watchable movie , that perhaps should had been a bit more bold and edgier in its execution .
Not Keaton's best but very creative !	As much as everybody seems to love this movie , I just don't count this among Keaton's best . It's a very creative movie but I feel that it also could had been made more fun . Nevertheless , Buster Keaton movies from the ' 20's of course always remain a must-see . Keaton was unique in its sort , not only was he a great comedy-actor with excellent timing he also was an awesome stuntman , in the period when stunts weren't halve as safe as they are now . What makes this movie especially distinct itself from other genre pieces made in the same period is the enormous amount of creativity in the movie . There are some unforgettable and brilliantly constructed sequences , such as the one in which Keaton literally enters a movie in the theater he works in . I still don't understand how they created those effects ! The movie keeps changing locations with Keaton in it and he falls , runs and hides , without the camera ever moving , or the movie cutting . The movie is filled with more creative sequences such as this one and other daring stunts that look amazing . There isn't much to the story of course really . In my opinion its also not really the most interesting one the genre has ever provided but it provides the movie with some fun moments and sequences nevertheless . Not the best in its genre but for ' 20's standards a truly excellent movie !
Original storytelling and fun characters make this is a good late MGM musical .	This is an enjoyable and good late MGM musical . This is a good genre movie , from genre specialist George Cukor , with all of the typical and formulaic elements present in it . It's cheerful looking and slightly over-the-top , like it should be . The story is of course once more about love and the musical business . The story might sounds formulaic and simple but it is yet the story that makes this movie distinct itself from other genre movies and make this an original one . The story is told from three different point-of-views in a courtroom , after each other . The storytelling is obviously inspired by Akira Kurosawa's " Rashômon " . Does this storytelling work out perfect in this movie ? I have to say no . Although it works original , it also tends to make the movie needlessly tiresome after a while . It's not always interesting or refreshing enough to follow the story from the three different viewpoints . Unlike " Rashômon " , you as the viewer often feel cheated about what the real truth is . The three different stories too often make each other weaker , instead of stronger and more intriguing , even though it still makes the movie as a whole original and refreshing . So you can really say that the story and storytelling is one of the stronger - as well as one of the weaker points of the movie . Gene Kelly is good in his role but really the main characters of the movie are the three girls . They mostly carry the movie and make the movie a delight to watch . The movie further more also features some other great supporting actors , such as ; Patrick Macnee and Leslie Phillips . The characters are all fun and have some good chemistry , even though they are all far from well developed or written . The sets , costumes ( Oscar-winner ) and the musical numbers are great looking , like you always should expect from a genre movie like this one , from the MGM-studios . This movie will surely not disappoint the fans . It's a good and even one of the better and more fun musicals from the MGM-studios .
Good fun for young children !	This is a movie that's obviously aimed toward younger kids , who are no older than about 10 . It reaches its target well , by having a likable and enjoyable simple story , suitable characters and some nice songs . You can easily tell that this movie is meant for young kids also because of its animations . It uses simple shapes and bright simple colors and it doesn't make this one of the greatest animated , animated movies but the targeted audience will surely know to appreciate the animations and its simplicity , that makes this a fun cheerful movie to watch and provide the movie with a very light atmosphere . The movie makes sure that it never becomes too scary or tense for the young ones . So that means that there are no real evil villains in it , or chases through the streets or over rooftops . It rather relies on the adventurous story of the one main character , who embarks on detective kind of mission , when a couple of upper-class thieves cross her path and no one seems to believe her . Of course the story is hard to believe and its filled with many improbabilities but again , the movie its story perfectly connects to the imagination and the view on the world of young children . Guess that in the end the movie also tries to give a message but i'm not sure if this will come truly across to young children . There are better examples of animated movies and TV-series that send out messages . The songs are really nice . It's no Disney of course but its certainly way better than with every other animated low budget production is the case . The humor is good and fun . It's clean and simple and at times even greatly slapstick like . I'm sure this movie will get a couple of laughs out of young children . Perfectly clean great fun for young children !
Begins as a typical teenage comedy but soon starts to become more than that .	To be honest , the movie began as a typical - and not so great , teenage comedy flick , in which a couple of youngsters are going on a spring break holiday . " Where the Boys Are " however handles delicate themes delicately and the movie is way more than just another teenage comedy . Actually quite amazing considering that this movie got made in 1960 . The movie and its theme seems far ahead of its time . It makes the movie all the more relevant for the time period it got released in and all the more interesting now days to watch . This movie is basically a good observation of how teenagers handled sexual themes in 1960 , without ever getting raunchy or not honest . It's a straightforward flick with its theme but its style ensures that this movie at all times mostly remains an entertaining and light one to watch . The movie also really doesn't feel like it was made in 1960 . It's an all the more interesting movie since it tells the story from the viewpoint of the female characters , which works refreshing for a change . The movie knows to create a perfect balance between its more serious moments and its entertainment value . With movies like this the drama would often feel forced and out of place since the entire movie is done in a comical style of film-making . The creators of this movie however managed to find the right balance , without ever crossing any lines . Above all things it's still a very entertaining movie to watch . It's still mostly a comedy that provides some good entertainment and has some likable characters in it . The characters are also really a reason why the movie works out . Lot of the characters are very stereotypical but luckily the actors don't go over-the-top with their roles , which ensures that we can also really start to like - and feel for some of the characters . The acting was way better than expected . Paula Prentiss really impressed me , also with her beauty and the movie further more features George Hamilton and Frank Gorshin in some early roles . Gorshin is still perhaps best known for his portrayal of the Riddler in the early " Batman " series . A surprising and fresh movie that deserves to be seen by more .
Wonderful adventure movie !	" The Road to El Dorado " is a wonderful adventure movie with great music and tons of humor that are good for more then a few laughs . But it has some flaws . . . The movie starts of extremely well in a good fast pace and with some nice comical moments . But later on the movie loses some of it's pace and the story takes a not so positive turn and all the feeling of adventure is suddenly gone . A shame because the movie had lot's of potential . A major problem is that the movie lacks a good villain . Cortes is underused and plays a too minor role to be really considered a villain . And Tzekel-Kan also doesn't play that much of a role in the story . The story focuses a bit too much on the friendship of Miguel and Tulio and leaves a lot of potential unused . The movie is filled with visual beauty and some really well done scene's . The animation is above average but not as good as Dreamworks previous animated masterpiece " The Prince of Egypt " . That might very well be one of the reasons why this movie flopped a bit ; People were expecting too much from this movie after " The Prince of Egypt " . The musical numbers are excellent . The combination Hans Zimmer / Elton John pays of once more . But why is the extremely fun soundtrack by Hans Zimmer and John Powell ( and co . ) not available ? Unfortunately the only CD available is the one with the nice Elton John songs on it . A shame because the music was very good and fun ! But oh well , I can still listen to it while watching the movie . An excellent feel good movie .
Standard and predictable but once more wonderfully executed !	Once more the famous two get in some serious trouble with their wives , after a series of unfortunate incidents , which forces them to come up with a lie , which of course only make their situation even worser . . . The jokes remain funny , even after they are repeated multiple times in the movie . The events leading up to the confrontation with the two wives are both wonderfully constructed and executed and filled with some typical slapstick humor . The movie knows to remain constantly funny throughout the whole movie which makes this a very consistent comedy to watch . The ending might have some slow moments in it and might not be as funny as the first part of the movie , it doesn't really make the movie less pleasant to watch . " We Faw Down " is good enough for more than a few laughs and it shows Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy once more in top-form and their chemistry and timing is spot-on ! Perhaps not as memorable and good as other Laurel & Hardy pictures but still an entertaining and watchable comedy-short from the famous comical duo .
Brilliant story but pretty weird execution of it .	The story of the movie is highly original and quite brilliant however the execution of the story by German director Wolf Rilla ( who apparently now runs his own restaurant in Southern France ) is not something I'm happy about . The movie's pace doesn't always flow really well and is incoherent . We jump from one scene to another without any obvious connection . Still the movie is a strong piece of British science-fiction / horror . The story itself is what makes this movie a classic . The movie is not really a scary one but more one with a mysterious atmosphere . You never know what is going to happen next or how it is going to end all . The beginning and the end are the strongest parts of the movie , especially the mysterious beginning is one to remember . The good British acting is top-class . Especially the young Martin Stephens does an amazing job as ' leader ' of the children . He was pretty scary and unreal at times . Not really recommendable for the casual viewer , this movie is too old fashioned for them , however if you're a fan of the genre this is a must see .
Simply very good entertainment .	This movie offers perfect entertainment . The main characters and the performances by the actors are very good and comical . The movie is filled with some crazy ' not-so-everyday ' characters and the villains are deliciously stereotyped and highly entertaining and there are some simply hilarious moments throughout the movie . The movie can be described as an adventure science-fiction comedy . Surely the movie will not be remembered as one of the best of all time but I will always remember this movie as a very entertaining one and of which I have some very fond childhood memories . The nice ' unknown ' musical score by Jerry Goldsmith is very good , I actually watched this movie in honor of his death the day he had died , on 21 July 2004 . As long as you don't expect a masterpiece and merely want to be entertained , this movie is perfectly recommendable . Also very watchable for the entire family .
Fine little black & white western from the ' 50's .	This movie really ain't anything too spectacular but it's a pleasant enough western to watch . It's a pleasantly slow going movie ( which western isn't ? ) and takes it time to set up things and characters . Granted that it doesn't have the most interesting story or main character but it's all good enough to maintain your interest throughout . It's not a movie that bores , even though not an awful lot is happening . So just don't expect any long big gun fights or anything of that sort . It's a pretty ' innocent ' sort of western . It doesn't have an all too common main story for a western , which is also involving domestic violence and an horse race , among other things . This is a sort of a ' pleasant ' change and approach to the genre . It works out original , since the movie starts off as your typical revenge flick but in the end the story has a whole lot more in it . It however on the other hand at times also means that this movie isn't the most interesting the genre has to offer . Guess it's a sort of a pointless redundant movie to watch but when you do watch it you most likely won't be bored or regret it , especially of course when your a fan of the western genre and western's from the ' 40's / ' 50's in particular .
Good as a movie , not really as a biography .	The story told in the movie is really excellent and entertaining . However it feels more like a story based on the life of Bruce Lee rather then an actual biopic of his life . Jason Scott Lee perfectly plays Kung Fu legend Bruce Lee . Not only the way he plays Lee is impressive but also his fighting skills . The music by Randy Edelman was also surprising good . There are way too many fictitious and untrue things added in the movie to be considered a fair biography . But does it really matter for the movie ? It's like " Ed Wood " that was also filled with altered things and false truths but still it was a movie that told us the story of an unique character and what drove him . " Dragon : The Bruce Lee Story " isn't much different in that way . OK it's not completely fair to compare this movie to " Ed Wood " since that was a far superior movie to " Dragon : The Bruce Lee Story " ( what a horrible title by the way ) . The fight sequence are probably the best thing about the movie and they were highly entertaining , although very hard to believe that they actually really happened that way . It's a good entertaining movie but if you want to get to know more about Bruce Lee this isn't the best material for you to start with .
At the woodshop with Laurel & Hardy .	Maybe not as hilarious as the current rating on here would suggest but this movie is pretty hilarious . This movie is what Laurel & Hardy is all about . A simple premise , a single setting and plenty of room for the boys alone to show their slapstick - and silly antics . Of course the movie and everything that happens in it is absolutely predictable . But then again Laurel & Hardy movies never have been about its surprises . It's all about the timing and the execution of it all , that makes the jokes and slapstick work and make the movie hilarious to watch . Some of the comical moments are stretched out a bit too long in the movie but some other hilarious moments and the ending , surely compensates for this . It also isn't their most original movie ( although the ending surely is ) and many comical moments were already used in previous Laurel & Hardy . Not the first time they did this as well but as always it doesn't really matter , since it works just as powerful , fun and hilarious , no matter how predictable or unoriginal it ever gets . Leave it up to Laurel & Hardy to make a movie like this one work as an hilarious and fun one . I consider this to be one of the Laurel & Hardy must-sees , since this is one of their most generic movies and shows what Laurel & Hardy movies in their essence are all about .
Just enjoyable .	This is simply one fine and effective little comedy that is nothing too brilliant or hilarious but is simply a movie that constantly entertains and will surely make you laugh more than once . The movie is mostly being made enjoyable by its characters . It has some greatly fun characters in it , who of course are over-the-top and perhaps also not the most original once . Nevertheless it works out fine which is also due to the fine acting performance , which I have to say , were better than expected . I didn't really knew Ryan Reynolds as a comedy actor but he is simply great at it . He plays the main character of the movie , which means that he also mostly gets to carry the movie . He really manages well and plays a good convincing fat guy as well as a good convincing slick music manager / womanizer . Mind you , it's not a double role but it's the same character actually . The movie doesn't really feature the best known comedy actors of this moment but the casting is simply good , with Amy Smart , Anna Faris and Chris Klein all in some good comedy roles . Of course the story is mostly predictable though and the movie is set around Christmas , which makes this a Christmas movie and got released in late October originally . But seriously , " Just Friends " is not necessarily a Christmas movie and basically can be watched at any time of the year . Luckily it doesn't lay its emphasis on Christmas and the jolly Christmas spirit , like some other comedies released around Christmas would do . Despite having some over-the-top character , I don't really feel that the movie itself as a whole doesn't ever go over-the-top with its situations . It does has some Will Ferrell of Ben Stiller kind of moments in it so to speak but its style and directing always makes sure that the movie remains a sort of a humble and restrained one with its comedy and I mean this in a positive way . Forced comedy just doesn't always work out that well and " Just Friends " surely doesn't take this risk , which however also has as a consciences though that the movie isn't the best or most memorable one within its genre but the movie serves its purpose and it does not fail to entertain you throughout . Simply a fine genre movie to watch .
What's with the hate ? this is good fun entertainment .	Yeah OK well the cover-art is horrible but the movie itself is actually quite pleasant and entertaining to watch . Sure it's no " Lethal Weapon " but it sure is a good action comedy that entertains well . The movie doesn't really have much story and even the little story elements that are present in the movie are far from interesting . It's weak and simple but yet the movie is made interesting and carried by Mel Gibson and Goldie Hawn , who have a surprising good chemistry and the many action sequences present in the movie , that are not the best you've ever seen but entertaining nevertheless . The movie serves its purpose well . The comedy elements in the movie work out well enough to make this an entertaining movie to watch . The characters aren't the best ever and are all quite formulaic but it's sort of fitting for a movie like this . Mel Gibson does a good job in this movie . Basically he in this movie plays a bit of the same way as he plays his Riggs character in the Lethal Weapon movies . No wonder , Gibson made this movie just after " Lethal Weapon 2 " and he clearly was in the mood for more . The result of that can be seen in this movie . He provides the movie certainly with a certain extra and gives the movie some extra fun . On top of that he and Goldie Hawn work pretty well as a screen duo , which does provide the movie with some of its best moments . Goldie Hawn herself is also surprising good in this movie and she shows that she can handle the genre . The villains are definitely a disappointing aspect about this movie . I mean when the main villains are being played by David Carradine and Bill Duke you would expect something more of it . The villains play a very little part in the movie and in it they get very little interesting to do . A waste of two fine actors . Some goes for the rest of the supporting cast . The movie is from 1990 but it still has an ' 80's feeling over it . Meaning lots of formulaic car chases , shootouts , haircuts and two main , ' buddy team ' , characters . Plus some horrible ' 80's music . I mostly hate Hans Zimmer score from the early ' 90's . They sound like ' 80's left overs . The movie is nothing too spectacular but it does has some great moments . Also the finale does not disappoint . The movie is professionally directed by John Badham , who never really made great movies but more movies that served their purpose always well . Nothing too great but the movie deserves a better reputation , since this is some great entertaining fun , to watch .
Bad first part , hilarious second .	I didn't really cared much for the first part of the movie but the second part was absolutely hilarious . The second part of the movie in which a small war gets unleashed between several different car drivers who are in a traffic jam is absolutely comedy gold . Almost every car ends up broken or entirely destroyed . The slapstick humor during the fights is Laurel & Hardy comedy at their best . Also the ending sequence is something hilarious and unforgettable . It's a very satisfying Laurel & Hardy comical silent short , despite the weaker first halve .
Could have been a real classic but is an above average alien-invasion movie instead .	This movie had huge potential . Everything to make this a science-fiction classic masterpiece were present ; Spielberg's directing , a great concept , ILM special effects , Tom Cruise as the main character and lots of other professionals involved both in front and behind the cameras . Then where did it go wrong ? The answer to that is the script . The story is very simple and lacks a real clear plot line . Basically the movie is only about Tom Cruise and his two children running and driving from city to city , from the aliens and their destructive Tripod-machines . Exactly why are we , out of all the people , following these persons ? The character development is lacking , just as much as the story does . Both lack development and depth . Of course the movie is by no means an horrible movie but it's just that the movie is a bit disappointing because of the fact that it had so much more potential . It still is a good and certainly spectacular movie to watch but it's not a movie people will still talk about in 5 or 10 years from now . The story makes this movie a bit of an easily forgettable movie that doesn't leave an huge impression afterward , even though the movie itself is pure eye-candy to watch . There is no doubt about it that Spielberg is a great director . He directs his actors in this movie very well and everyone in the movie gives an amazing performance , especially Tom Cruise and Dakota Fanning . Tom Cruise for once again doesn't play the action hero . He is an average Joe instead and I think he did this in a very good and convincing . Spielberg also uses the special effects very well . He doesn't use the special effects to impress the audience as much as possible , with lots of spectacular and action filled sequences , which he could had easily had done , he uses them as a tool to tell the story with instead . The movie is purely told from Tom Cruise and his family's perspective , because of this the movie gets a very realistic feeling . We don't get to see any close-ups of the Tripods and how they destroy entire cities and fight off the American army . I like this approach . It makes " War of the Worlds " different from many other alien-invasion movies . It because of this certainly is one of the most believable and realistic alien-invasion movies , along with " Signs " . Visually there also is absolutely nothing wrong with this movie . The special effects from ILM are very impressive and look extremely convincing . The cinematography by Janusz Kaminski is also simply phenomenal at times and is typically gritty , which certainly adds to the tense and realistic atmosphere of the movie . Unlike others , to me the ending didn't came really abrupt . But perhaps this was because to me the ending was already spoiled , thanks to the movie it's soundtrack , which featured the final narration of Morgan Freeman explaining how the movie ended . So I already knew what to expect . To be perfectly honest I liked the ending and I couldn't think of any other , or better way to end this movie , without losing any of its realism and credibility . I can understand how it might seem lame and sudden to most though but for me it was satisfying enough . It certainly is a movie that will receive one or two , most likely , technical Acedemy Awards . And it deserves to . There isn't an awful lot wrong with this movie but it truly is the simple story that prevents this movie from being a classic or masterpiece . I still regard this movie as one of the must sees of 2005 simply because of the movie its look and acting . You can tell by watching this movie that there was lots of talent involved , both in front and behind the cameras . Especially Spielberg's touch still makes this movie better than just the average alien-invasion movie but still not even he can prevent this movie from being a bit of a disappointment . Not his or anybody else his / her fault , simply blame it on the script .
Honestly , the second best of the " Jaws " series .	This movie doesn't receive much love but I think it really deserves some . It's understandable why this movie is regarded as a bad one . It's the third establishment in a series of unneeded " Jaws " sequels . Both 2 and 3 were disappointing movies , especially compared to the first of course so how could the third sequel be possibly any better ? It's easy to bash a movie like this but I'm not going with the majority here on this one . I'll explain why I feel that this is the second best movie from the " Jaws " series . Despite the previous two sequels it actually tries to recapture the atmosphere of the first movie . Also of course the fact that Lorraine Gary reprises her role as Ellen Brody adds to this feeling and atmosphere . The movie has lots of returning character and references to the first " Jaws " movie , something that the previous two sequels mostly ignored . This movie is actually the closest to the first " Jaws " movie in its atmosphere , story and tension . The only reason why this movie is not as good as the first " Jaws " movie is the fact that it hasn't got the characters Quint , Chief Brody and Hooper in it . Also of course Spielbergs skill and subtle touch is missing and so is John Williams ' musical score . The use of some archive footage from the first " Jaws " movie , in some flashbacks scenes might be a bit cheap but in my opinion it works effective . It perfectly binds the first and last establishment of the " Jaws " series . It also explains the ' lame ' story better . The story is that a shark wants to take revenge on all the Brody's . It's of course incredibly silly that a shark would ever do such a thing but a story like this was necessary to put an end to the " Jaws " series . After this vengeful shark would die , it would be highly unbelievable that any of the Brody's would have a later encounter with a great white . This sort of story was simply needed to put an end to the series and for me it's really satisfying . It is a really great and enjoyable monster movie . It has some well build up and executed sequences and an ending that also doesn't disappoint . In my opinion it's a great way to end the " Jaws " series , even though my opinion still is that none of the " Jaws " sequels should had ever been made because they are simply pointless .
A science fiction spectacle !	" Independence Day " is a good old fashioned science fiction spectacle with lot's of stuff blowing up and dying people . This movie is pure entertainment . Don't watch this movie expecting a serious story with any logic in it . The movie filled with dumb dialogue , needless many characters and patriotism . But quite frankly who cares ? The movie serves its purpose ; to entertain . The best thing about " Independence Day " is the action . Not only are the total destructions of cities such as New York and Washington and their monuments totally awesome but also the plane fights versus the aliens are very well made , mainly thanks to some good and convincing special effects for which the movie also received an Oscar . But yes , the movie has too many weak spots to be ever regarded as a science fiction classic such as " The War of the Worlds " and " The Day the Earth Stood Still " . One of my main complaints is there are too many characters , just like in disaster movies from the 70's . Problem with the characters is that the creators try to create a story around all of them with as a result needless plot lines and uninteresting situations . The actors are below average . Even Jeff Goldblum isn't in his element and seemed to have been miss cast . Maybe the best actor in this movie is Will Smith in his big breakthroughMindless fun .
Just not my idea of a great movie .	I have seen quite some musical movies in my life but this just wasn't among the best or most intriguing ones to me . Not that it's bad but after hearing so many positive things about this movie it's still disappointing . The movie has an annoying and typical fast going musical story , that features all of the stereotypes and very few surprises on its own . To me the story was just a big pile of gibberish about the making of a musical production with a whole bunch of characters you just feel you never get to know . Some of the characters are amusing and so is the dialog but the script feels just too forced and stagy and therefor also the humorous aspects of the movie . It was still entertaining all to watch but not just as overall enjoyable and cheerful non-stop entertainment such as many other musical movies . For its time the movie and its approach is pretty original within its genre and therefore " 42nd Street " is still an important movie made . It therefore also deserves respect and recognition . It's for some part genre redefining and a taste of future musical movies . A genre that mostly flourished in the the late ' 30's and ' 40's . Definitely a good movie but just not the classic everyone claims it is .
A perfect treat if you're into these sort of movies .	This is yet another MGM musical with a standard and predictable love-story that has all the familiar ingredients in it . It's one of those typical movies of which you already know how its going to end . From start till finish , nothing refreshing or unpredictable ever happens to be honest . However of course these sort of movies were made to simply entertain its audience . It's a fun romantic movie . You just sit back and enjoy it , without thinking too much about its story . This time the musical takes an operatic twist , which should delight the fans of it . I shall immediately admit that opera is not entirely my cup of tea . Never has been and never will be most likely . Still there was enough to enjoy for me , since the movie also wasn't made entirely in ' opera style ' . The movie was good lighthearted , romantic fun to watch , even though it all was nothing too remarkable , refreshing or original all . The actors were cast for their signing voices and musical skills rather than their acting abilities but that however is fine and acceptable for a movie in this sort of genre . Their musical skills most certainly compensate enough for their acting skills ! Mario Lanza was one of the most talented young singers of the last century who unfortunately died way too early . Ethel Barrymore also does what she can do best ; play a character who lies most of the time in bed . None of the comical actors really work out in the movie , probably mainly because it doesn't blend in that well with the operatic elements of the movie , that are the most prominent present in the story . It's a worth seeing , charming movie . Don't expect anything too spectacular or original . Just sit back , enjoy and try not to think too much about the typical MGM musical formulaic story . It does not fail to entertain !
Solid early thriller with a great concept and story .	This is a truly solid early British thriller attempt . It might not be as good as the German and American work from the same period but overall it's a solid , original and interesting enough movie . The concept and overall story of the movie are great - and original thriller material . The movie is however really short and therefor some elements in the story felt rushed . It didn't took enough time to build its tension and mystery . The main character of the movie , played by Henry Kendall , is at times hilarious , at other times he's borderline annoying and at times he's just plain irritating as an over-the-top English-gentleman . So no , not a great consistency of the main character . It doesn't always help to make the movie and its story enjoyable and interesting to watch . The movie screams for a remake really . The concept and story of the movie are good , mysterious and tense enough to make a real solid thriller , by todays standards , with . The movie its story really deserves a modern update . As a whole is a quite solid early British take on the thriller-genre , which is still enjoyable and interesting enough to watch by todays standards , mainly thanks to the really original concept of the movie that is executed well enough but not to the max . I can however still really recommend this movie to the fans of early cinema and to those this movie is perhaps even a bit of an must-see , also a bit due to the very solid and at times quite revolutionary original editing , from none other than David Lean !
You can't really go wrong with Fred Astaire & Ginger Rogers .	Typically one of those movies that make you think ' too bad they don't make them like this anymore ' . It's a delightful , happy , cheerful movie with a simplistic story , adorable characters and some good dancing routines . I like these type of musical movies better than the sort of musical movies from the MGM studios , made during the same time period . It lays its emphasis more on its story and characters rather than on its singing . These Fred Astaire / Ginger Rogers musical movies do have some singing in it but it's not constant and of course the movie features still more dancing . Still this movie features a bit too many singing for my taste . No it's not the best Fred Astaire / Ginger Rogers out there but it still is simply a very fun and entertaining one . The story is a bit too simple and formulaic to regard this as a real original or true great movie within its genre . It of course has romantically elements thrown in and the two main characters don't like each other at first but nevertheless can't help falling in love with each other . It's mostly a story that remains predictable from start till finish but this doesn't really matter for these type of movies , that simply lays its emphasis on its entertainment . It's above all also still a comedy , with also some true comedy characters and well written comedy dialog . It also has some real good and well written comical moments . The movie is a bit too long though . Things could had also gone a bit faster and the movie really starts to loose its pace as it heads more and more toward its ending . 103 minutes a simply a bit too long for these type of movies . Still a perfectly watchable fun movie !
The always hungry Lt . Columbo .	This is a rather fine and enjoyable movie , set in the culinary world . Columbo is also happy with it , since he can't seem to get enough of all the great food . There are only a few directors that made it big time after they had directed a Columbo movies . Most of them stayed in the TV directing business , while other like Jonathan Demme did break through in the ' serious ' movie business . He is the director of for instance movies like " The Silence of the Lambs " and " Philadelphia " . He also did a fine job with this Columbo movie . His biggest moment of fame came with the James Bond movie " Octopussy " , in which he played the Bond villain Kamal Khan . Apparently you just either love or just detest his special performance in " Octopussy " . I really like it and it is one of the best things about that movie in my opinion . Funny to see how his acting style seems to be the same for basically every production he plays in . Perhaps it's also the reason why he hasn't starred in that many productions throughout his career and the reason why he never really ever truly broke through . Amazingly he's still alive and almost 90 now but he has retired from the business long time ago . I always wondered why there weren't any more murderers who attempted to kill the Lieutenant . They often just stand there when Columbo accuses them of murder and reveals he has proof for it as well . There had been murderers before with the intension to kill Lt . Columbo in previous movies and this movie is as well one of the few in which the murderer attempts to kill the Lieutenant . It has a great , yet simple but effective written story , that is nothing too special really but more than serves its purpose . A typical Columbo story , that works out fine and follows the usual successful Columbo formula . It doesn't make this movie really anything special but it makes it on par with most of the other Columbo movies of high quality standards .
The first Hitchcock talkie is a memorable one for different reasons entirely .	I have the feeling people call this movie a great one just because it's made by Hitchcock . But truth being told , the movie really isn't among the greatest in its genre . Even the master himself obviously still had some learning to do . No disgrace , since this is the first ' talkie ' from the master of suspense . Well , not exactly entirely a talkie in my book , since the movie is still mostly shot in silent movie style . Sound came available during the making of this movie , which was reason for Hitchcock to re-shoot certain parts of the movie with sound . It doesn't exactly give the movie a very consistent style and makes the editing look clumsy at parts . The movie is a bit of a drag at points , with also some overlong pointless dialog and long shots . The movie does luckily get better when the suspense kicks in and the movie turns into a real thriller . But soon again the movie starts to tend to be overlong at points . It also restrains the movie its story and keeps it rather simplistic . The movie gives you the feeling it had more potential in its story really . There are some great , almost artistic like looking shots within the movie , which still makes this a certainly better than average one and also more interesting to watch . it's a very creatively put together movie , with also some great camera-work , lighting and use of shadows . Of course the museum chase at the end of the movie is the highlight of the movie . It's a greatly directed sequence that is great looking and constructed . It showed Hitchcock's talent and was a premise of things to come . The actors certainly aren't among the greatest of their period . Their excuse could be that this was their first talkie as well though . It's not the most exciting Hitchcock you'll ever see . Even as an early thriller and for 1929 standards it isn't among the most exciting or best ones but it's a movie worth watching for its artistic creativity .
Well made movie .	This movie had been made with lots of profession both in front and behind the camera . The directing is subtle and nice and the performances by the actors are excellent . Really the best thing about " The Fugitive " is the acting , in particular Tommy Lee Jones . Basically his performance alone is what makes the movie work well and makes the story believable enough to be captivated by it . No wonder he won an Oscar for this , it's his best role till date and his character is an highly memorable one . Harisson Ford plays a boring average man which work well for his character and the movie . Other actors worth mentioning are Joe Pantoliano and Jeroen Krabbé . Still " The Fugitive " is not a movie I enjoy watching . The story , especially towards the end gets a bit too complex and perhaps even ridicules . I don't know but for some reason it doesn't really blend in with the rest of the movie , that was just basically a tense chase between Dr . Kimble and the U . S . Marshals . I think an action / thriller movie like this should be made just for pure entertainment were not a lot of thinking is required . Yes , although I still find it a good and recommendable movie I still tend to call this movie an overrated one . The movie is filled with some tense and memorable chase and action sequences that alone are reasons enough to go and watch this movie . The whole train / bus crash at the beginning is already regarded a bit as a classic action sequence that is well known to everybody . Worth watching mainly because of Tommy Lee Jones and the nice action and chase sequences . However if you expect this to be a simple entertaining action flick , think again , you're better of watching another movie .
Original but difficult movie .	" Donnie Darko " is a movie that remains difficult to understand . Everybody has his own interpretation of the ending and the story in general . That is a good thing . Everyone looks at this movie differently in his own way , which makes " Donnie Darko " an unique movie . It's a good first long featured movie for director Richard Kelly . Still I didn't liked it as much as everyone else seems to do . The movie has some odd moments and almost nothing is explained . Everything is left to the viewer his own interpretation and imagination , which seems like a lazy but of course also original way of movie making . The story is good but there are several missed opportunities , such as the whole time traveling element of the movie that is hardly used at all . There are some good actors in the movie . Jake Gyllenhaal is a good leading man but even better are the supporting actors played by well known actors Patrick Swayze , Drew Barrymore and Noah Wyle . In my opinion the movie is still overrated . Just because it's original and ' odd ' , doesn't make a movie brilliant . It's professionally made all and well written but not everything is making sense and the movie makes little effort in making the movie its story understandable . I can give my own interpretation of the movie and its story and try to explain everything about that but in my opinion that would be useless . Just watch this movie and form your own ideas and interpretation of the movie , since everyone will have a different opinion and interpretation of it . It certainly is a thought provoking movie that is worth watching .
Laurel & Hardy vs . James Finlayson .	The premise of this movie is very good . Laurel & Hardy are trying to sell Christmas trees in sunny California . Of course nobody wants to buy any . One of their costumers is being played by James Finlayson , with who they get into a serious brawl . Basically the movie only has one big joke ; The two boys totally wrecking Finlayson's house , while he totally wrecks the boys their car and Christmas trees . It's sort of fun to watch , mainly thanks to the acting and of the chemistry the three of them have on the screen . But it's not really a movie that made me laugh constantly . Sure of course I laughed and the movie had its moments of greatness but it overall wasn't really surprising enough to make this for me a memorable Laurel & Hardy comedy short . Call me old fashioned but I prefer a Laurel & Hardy short with more slapstick humor in it , rather than just constantly wrecking and throwing things .
Good , but overrated .	I saw the movie for the first time when it arrived on video , needless to say that I had very high expectations for this movie because I heard a lot about it . I watched the movie and I remembered my first reaction when I finished watching it , my reaction was : " This is it ? " Don't get me wrong , it's not a bad movie , not at all . But I was disappointed about it all and it just didn't met my expectations . Everybody knows the true story about the ship the " Titanic " and there are many movies / series made about it already . New about this movie is the love story . It's always dangerous to put a love story in a movie because if the love story doesn't work the movie doesn't work . The love story does work for most parts in this movie , except for some scene's in which I just don't buy it . Although the movie is very long it doesn't really ever get boring , which is of course a good thing . The best part of the movie is the sinking and you can see that James Cameron is really one of the best Action directors in the business . The acting isn't great but not bad either . The special effects look good with the exception of a few needless scene's . The movie is also full of visual mistakes ( for instance you can clearly see the camera in a scene , which is a HUGE mistake that I noticed on my first viewing ) and the characters in my opinion aren't really interesting enough . Although the movie got more credit then it really deserved I can still recommend this movie to everybody . Good but not perfect . . .
Yet another fine movie ruined by a love story .	" Enemy at the Gates " really looked like a promising movie when it came out in 2001 . The end result didn't disappointed me but it's still a shame when you think about it how much better the movie could had been . Loose the love story for starters ! A love story on the background of a heavy historical battle simply is out of place and takes away the pace and make the movie less believable . The whole love triangle thing really gets even annoying after a while and the weak ' Hollywood ' ending also didn't do much good to the movie . The best scene's were most certainly the sniper scene's . Also the battle's were filmed with lot's of profession and visual style . The sets and costumes also added to the historical feeling of the movie and still make this movie a good one to watch . Jude Law and Joseph Fiennes did a good acting job as the two main characters . Ron Perlman also shows up in a ( too ) small role . I really got interest in him after seeing this movie back in 2001 and I'm glad to see his career is doing well at the moment . Certainly not the best war movie ever made but still enough stuff to excite the WW II buffs . Don't believe everything in the movie though , it is BASED on true events but nothing more than that . . .
For most part an overdone , star-filled , shallow WW II production .	The story set around and about ' Operation Market Garden ' itself , seems like good enough material to make a good movie with . It however is a very complex thing when one tries to tell the story of ' Operation Market Garden ' from every view point possible ; Americans , the Polish , the Britts , Germans , the Dutch . This movie tells all of the stories of basically every brigade involved during the ' Operation Market Garden ' . Sounds like a great and fair tribute to all those who were involved . After all I often hear people complaining when an Hollywood WW II movie only focuses on the Americans , as if they were the only ones who fought and help to win WW II . To those persons who often complain about this , I recommend them to watch this movie . They will have to come to the conclusion that a movie that tells the story from every point of view , is unnecessarily confusion , overlong and focuses on far too many characters and plot-lines . The failure of the ( over ) ambitious ' Operation Market Garden ' is a fascinating story . Had the operation fully succeeded , it would had ended the war before Christmas 1944 . This movie does provide good information about the mission and the battles fought during it and the parties involved . Purely based on that this movie is a good and educational one as well . A movie however needs more than just a fascinating premise . There are several problems with " A Bridge Too Far " that make this movie a , what I would like to call , flawed grand epic . The movie is still big and uses lots of sets and extras but none of it really impresses since the movie tries to cover way too much of the story and focuses too little on the effects of the war on the characters . It makes the movie feel very stylized and not humane and realistic enough . There are countless unnecessary sequences but above all there are way too many and unnecessary characters . The movie has an immensely impressive looking all-star cast but at the same time that also is the down fall of the movie . Basically every star of the movie is given just as much screen time . Sounds fair but it just doesn't work out well enough . The movie doesn't always flow well because of this and the movie focuses on way too many characters that remain too shallow , a direct result of the fact that the movie tries to cover too much story and characters . Sure , most actors are a delight to watch in this movie and they probably also are one of the reasons why this movie still remains a perfectly good one to watch . But just think about it . Were the Ryan O'Neal , Laurence Olivier , Liv Ullmann roles , for instance , really necessary ? They add nothing to the story and you might even say that their roles only work distracting . They and many others , play roles in the movie , that in any other normal movie would had been an 5 seconds role but however due to the fact that they are being portrayed by big-name actors , the roles are far too much extended and stretched out . This really is the biggest problem of the movie . A result of this all is that the movie also remains a pretty shallow one . It's just a documentary like observation of the events which occurred and it fails to capture any emotion or show the true horrors of war . The movie is however a good looking one . It's pretty obvious that not all the money was just spend on the cast . The settings are good and the movie was filmed in - or directly around the places at which the events of ' Operation Market Garden ' also occurred in real life . It gives the movie a certain bit of extra and adds some realism . The movie becomes nowhere exactly spectacular but there are some well filmed battle sequences that don't really impress but are good and memorable enough . The musical score by John Addison is very good and makes the movie also very recognizable , unfortunately it was the only good and memorable score by Addison , at least that I know of . Richard Attenborough's movies always have both hits and misses and that goes for this movie more than any of his other's . This movie has many misses but still the positive things about the movie make this a , still good enough one , to watch . It still is the ultimate movie to watch if you're interested in ' Operation Market Garden ' , however if you like a good WW II movie that is realistic and impressive to watch , this is not a movie for you .
Definitely a step up again from the previous mummy movie entry .	This is a definitely better movie than the previous Unviversal movie entry " The Mummy's Tomb " , from 2 years earlier . The story and characters are better again this time . Although this doesn't mean that the actual story is really that much special but at least they definitely put some effort in it . It's of course a quite silly story and it gets sort of tiresome how they keep bringing back the mummy back to life time after the time , no matter how often they have killed him off already in the previous movies . Same goes for the Andoheb role played by George Zucco . But oh well , at least the story keeps the movie enjoyable to watch . There aren't really any slow or dull moments ever in this movie . The movie features both John Carradine and Lon Chaney Jr . again in the role of the mummy . They were both like THE Universal horror movies stars at the time . It's not that they roles are that interesting within this movie but nevertheless their presence is enough to uplifts the movie and makes it all the more enjoyable to watch for the genre fans of the Universal ' 40's movies . Unlike the previous Universal mummy-entries , this movie does not feature an happy end , in which our hero kills the mummy and gets back the back . This was quite surprising and also a reason why this movie is better than just the average and typical Universal ' 40's horror attempt . The movie has some good typical Unverisal ' 40's horror moments . Of course it's nothing too scary , at least not by today's standards but it's very classy and good looking all , with the use of shadows and some handy camera-work . A perfectly watchable mummy-entry .
Good idea , good execution .	This is a rather good little movie , that features only two characters , hardly any dialog and a simple but yet effective concept of an American and a Japanese soldier during WW II , who are both marooned on a small uninhabited island in the Pacific Ocean . Of course it's quite predictable from the start on how the movie is going to progress further . Still the execution of it is done rather well and also surprising . I like how the first halve of the movie is basically like " Tom & Jerry " when the two main characters only bug - and try to steal from each other . It makes the movie quite pleasant , without ever really becoming fully ridicules or a comedy by the way . Its themes and clichés are all being handled well . It's a nice touch that the two main characters don't speak the same language and therefore hardly ever use any words to communicate . Nevertheless they start to understand and respect each other , despite their big difference and the ongoing war in the pacific and therefore hatred and suspicion toward each other , almost constantly . John Boorman is a director who often puts nature-themes in this movie . With this movie as well obviously , as it's set almost entirely in the open and wild nature . It shows how men uses natural elements at hand in order to survive . The movie doesn't need much to tell a 103 minute long story with and it does so without ever becoming boring or so . This is also thanks to Conrad L . Hall's camera-work , that uses some great and original perspectives at times . The movie only has two character in it and despite the fact that they don't have an awful lot of dialog the two actors still carry the movie with their skills . Toshirô Mifune is one of the best and certainly also one of the best known Japanese actors of all time . He of course became famous for starring in many Akira Kurosawa movies , often in the main lead . Lee Marvin of course also is no small actor and had already won an Oscar several years prior to this movie . It's something special watching these two big actors together , who both obviously have their own distinctive style , which also suits the movie its main concept . A nice little unique movie .
Dancing cars !	The car chase in the second " The Hire " short , is so choreographed that it's almost like the cars are dancing with each other ! Really a must see for the fans of Eastern cinema . The cinematography and editing work better for the movie than was the case in the first " The Hire " short " Ambush " but it still is Ang Lee's directing that is the highlight of the movie . The story tries to be a bit more than just a car chase which was not really necessary but not really disturbing either . The ending is really fun ! The music by Mychael Danna is a bit simple and kind of irritating at times and the action might not be as good as in other " The Hire " shorts but it still is on par with most of them , thanks to Ang Lee's directing !
Surprisingly original and therefor also likable movie .	It's an interesting western / prison movie cross-over , although above all the movie remains a western of course with some of its formulaic ingredients , in this movie it's mostly the use of Indians . The story makes the movie more original than most of the other western's from the ' 50's . It's originality also help to make this movie a better than average one . Of course the story still feels the need to put in a love-story into the movie but that's basically the curse of every movie that's over 50 years old . Nevertheless the love-story itself is also quite different and original , so it isn't as distracting as in most other genre movies from the same period often was the case . Director John Sturges has made many entertaining and adventurous movies in his career and I consider this as one of them , though it obviously is not his best work . It's just a good and enjoyable movie , with some real great moments , for in between . At times its painfully obvious that the movie was for some part shot in studios with fake looking backgrounds in it . It makes the movie look outdated but that also by now has become part of the charm of these sort of movies . The cinematography is from Robert Surtees , who perhaps was the greatest cinematographer of his time . This movie isn't his best done however but it's a worthy one . William Holden is good in his role , though it's hard to always like him because of the stubbornness and seemingly lack of emotion of the character . The supporting cast also pull of well , especially John Forsythe . The musical score by Jeff Alexander is surprisingly great and I mean really great . It's not the usual some old , same old ' 50's western drivel . It's a score worth searching out , though I don't think it's available anywhere . An enjoyable movie to watch , that's worth watching if you get the chance .
They couldn't wait for WW II , so they made a WW II picture in 1936 .	This is quite interesting as a look into the feature through the eyes of people living in 1936 . Of course not much of it became true and as a movie it has its flaws but it remains a mostly interesting one to watch nevertheless because of its concept . No wonder , since its based on a H . G . Wells novel and he provided the screenplay itself for this movie as well . The first part of the movie which focuses on WW II ( which starts in 1940 and ends somewhere in the ' 60's ) is a quite good one , since it focuses on a couple of interesting - mostly social , aspects . It raises some questions and it makes you think . It basically gives a good portrayal of what could had happened all , even though WW II as portrayed in this movie of course is much different from the events which happened in real life . Basically WW II in this movie looks the same like WW I and is being fought in the same way , with trenches , gas attacks , old WW I planes and tanks and old weaponry . Basically the first part of the movie is good but the last part , which is set in the year 2036 , isn't halve as good and actually quite annoying . It shows a nice looking futuristic world but its story isn't much good . It focuses on the sending the human beings to space for the first time ever and a revolution starts because of it , since people are against the idea of sending people to outer space . But why remains too vague to me and seems like a silly thing to oppose against in the first place . But what mostly does not make this movie always totally successful as a movie are its very hammy acting performances . The actors are acting like its a stage-play and the dialog is especially really corny . It's the kind of preachy and moralistic dialog , that of course in no way is realistic and perhaps makes the movie feel all the more outdated . It's an interesting movie to watch due to its concept but it's just not a movie that is without its flaws .
Showing the potential possibilities of motion picture perfectly .	This early movie perfectly demonstrates the future possibilities of motion picture . The quality of the movie is surprising good looking . There are no jerky movements and the colors are clear to see , as is the entire picture as a whole . Sorts of makes you wonder why movies from the 1910's and ' 20's were so much worse looking compared to these early Edison Manufacturing Company films , from the end of the 19th century , when it comes down to the visual quality of the images . Of course it has to do everything with different ( and cheaper and more simple to make ) camera techniques and projecting being used , among other reasons . The movie shows three hard working blacksmiths hammering on an anvil , one at a time , each on a other side . When they're done they're thirsty and pass a bottle of beer , before resuming their work . Funny to see that the beer bottle itself was obviously empty . The third guy that got the bottle didn't even bothered to do as if he took a sip . He simply putted the bottle against his lips and then quickly putted it back on its place . It's a studio shot movie ( shot at Black Maria studio at West Orange , New Jersey , America's first movie studio , built on the grounds of Edison's laboratories ) , meaning that the person's are ' actors ' ( actually of course just Edison employees ) and the events are staged . The movie shows all of the possibilities of movie making . It has lots of individual movements from 3 separate persons and ' action ' in it , since there are several things happening within the 30 seconds . I'm sure this movie must have really thrilled people to see all of the possibilities of motion pictures , when it was first publicly shown at the Brooklyn Institute in
Gentleman Jim in live boxing action .	The fact that Edison and co . had gotten James Corbett to appear in front of the camera must have been a big break for them . Corbett was the heavy weight champion at the time ( he had just defended his title against Charley Mitchell , prior to this movie ) and he on top of that also was one of the most popular and best known boxers at the time . He's better known under the nickname Gentleman Jim and is being credited as the ' father of modern boxing ' . He is being portrayed by Errol Flynn in the boxing movie " Gentleman Jim " , from 1942 . In this boxing match he is competing against an ' underdog ' , Peter Courtney . Originally the entire movie consisted out of six one minute rounds to be displayed all one by one but now days only a small portion of only a few seconds of the movie has survived . A real shame , since I'm sure that boxing fans now days are still willing to pay an handsome amount of money just to see James Corbett boxing a whole match . Still it must also be noted that the fight was probably fixed though in advance . The Edison Manufacturing Company needed 6 rounds , so Corbett was probably holding back a little during shooting . In the surviving bit of the movie you can see him deliver some punches , in his very powerful and technical superior ( at least for its time ) way . It wasn't the last boxing match in front of a ' camera ' Corbett appeared in and after his career he actually became an early movie star but not a real successful one though . So this movie is not the only one that shows Gentleman Jim in live moving action . Filming boxing matches was actually the most profitable thing they ever did for the movie pioneer boys from the Edison Manufacturing Company . As a matter of fact , this particular movie was actually the most profitable one they ever made during the kinetoscope era . Because boxing was illegal in some states at the time , they could sell these shot boxing matches , which could be played on a Kinetograph ( lets say a 20th century TV-set ) . People then were able to view a match , for a certain amount of money . For this purpose they founded the Kinetoscope Exhibiting Company , which also developed and created new special kinetoscopes , which could play movies of a minute long . Before this the movie could only display movies for 30 seconds tops . This wasn't the first boxing match they had filmed and that honor must go to " Leonard-Cushing Fight " , from earlier in the year . It's great to see the legendary Gentleman Jim in live action in this movie , or what is left of it though .
Making movie history without really knowing it .	This film was purely made for publicity purposes , as a series of still photographs to accompany an article in Harper's weekly , so it wasn't even supposed to be even ever shown as a motion-picture in the first place . It must have been a real blast for Edison and Co . to make this movie and I'm sure it good a good laugh out of people at the time . To me the sneeze itself really didn't seemed real , also because of the reason that of course in those days they couldn't shoot for several minutes straight , in order to wait for Fred Ott to finally sneeze . But who knows , maybe that really is how people sneezed over 100 years ago . It was a very highly sophisticated looking sneeze . A real gentleman's sneeze . The movie isn't looking of the greatest quality but this is of course all due to the fact that this film was never meant to be shown as a motion-picture in the first place . The film is historically interesting for a couple of reasons 1 . It of course is the first ever recorded sneeze , as if that is really historically significant . 2 . It was the first ever motion picture to be registered with the U . S . Copyright Office and 3 . It's the first film to feature a close-up of a persons face . So without really knowing at the time , and without those intentions I would guess , this movie has become part of film-history .
Bringing back the old fashioned musical movie spirit .	In lots of ways " Hairspray " is surprising much like musicals from the ' 30's and 40's ; the era of the birth of movie musicals and by fans are still regarded as the best decade ( s ) for movie musicals . " Hairspray " comes real close to what those movies were all about . It's a happy no worries musical , with dancing routines and singing , that is colorful , fast and with a moralistic story to it . In that regard " Hairspray " is already a better and more successful movie at what it tries to achieve than some other genre movies from this decade . The movie of course also has moralistic messages in it but it doesn't really work out that great though , since it just isn't realistic enough about it . As if dancing can solve interracial and acceptance issues . But that's just how musicals normally are . They show what should be a perfect and happy world and provide simple ' sulutions ' for much bigger and more serious issues . The message of the movie is to respect each other , just the way they are , despite of race or size . But obviously this just simply doesn't take away any of the fun of the movie . It's obviously not a movie that should be taken seriously . After all how can you take a movie with John Travolta in an elderly female role take seriously in the first place ? " Hairspray " is light feel-good fun and it does not fail to bring entertainment . It's also a movie with lots of humor in it , mostly with its spoken lines and insight jokes about the ' 60's . You don't have to been born prior to the ' 60's to understand it and find it all funny and amusing though . Its humor and the over-the-top going of it all makes sure that you'll never take this movie seriously and take it as simple light warm hearted entertainment instead . The movie its cast is pretty amazing , considering the genre the movie got made in . It features some actors you normally wouldn't expect in a musical . John Travolta hadn't starred in a musical for almost 30 years but here he is again singing and dancing like he has done nothing else before . On top of that he isn't playing any ordinary role but he's actually playing an over-sized female . Of course a role you would never expect to see him in . Perhaps the most amusing role is being played by Christopher Walken , who always deliberately plays his comical roles so seriously that he becomes totally hilarious . Also actors such as Michelle Pfeiffer , Amanda Bynes and James Mardsen have some quite big singing roles . Jerry Stiller also makes an amusing small appearance . He also was in the previous " Hairspray " movie from 1988 . in the role that in this movie is being played by Christopher Walken . Can't really say that the musical numbers are anything memorable but they are done with style and is very happy and colorful , which makes them amusing to watch , even though it isn't always too great to listen at . At some points in the movie some musical numbers also too rapidly follow each other . Normally it's also really something disturbing when characters in the movie suddenly in the middle of a sequence burst into singing but I must say that this movie handled this well and in an almost entirely seamless , non-disturbing way . I simply enjoyed it a lot , despite that musical isn't my favorite movie genre .
Perfect horror entertainment for children .	As weird and as unexpected as it might sound , I really liked this movie for what it was and it's no way as bad as everything tries to make you believe it is . I thought that this was just a great children movie . Or well , maybe it's just because this would be the type of movie that I would had liked to have seen when I was young ( er ) . People just often seem to forget or ignore their inner child . While watching this movie you just have to think and feel like a child again , since this is also the target group the movie got aimed towards . When you do so , you'll see that this movie is simply good at what it tries to achieve . It brings some good clean and safe horror entertainment for children . Young ones often seem to like reading horror stories ( at least in my days this was the case ) so they are likely to get a blast out of watching this movie . Some sequences however might be a bit too disturbing for really young children though , so be aware of that . Of course when you start watching this movie as an adult you'll notice the movie its weak and quite formulaic story . Nothing is ever really surprising about it . The movie nevertheless has a great sense of adventure though in which a group of people gets trapped in an haunted house , with a new adventure in every room . The movie is great looking , with also especially its special effects . Normally horror and special effects are never a good or effective combination but in this case of an horror movie for children , it isn't really a complainant . The special effects mostly serve to give the movie its feeling of adventure and it provides the movie with some of its entertaining moments as well . The movie also features some or the recently deceased Rick Baker make-up effects , which is always something great to look at . Not sure if the movie is really as effective as a comedy than as an adventure movie though . Oh well , perhaps children will still find the movie funny in parts , though some of the jokes are obviously aimed toward adults . Something Disney movies often do so , especially lately . I also can't say if I'm too sure about Eddie Murphy casting as the main lead . Now I have nothing against Eddie Murphy really but he just isn't suitable for all types of comedies . I think this is one of those movies that would had been better off without him . Besides the well known Eddie Murphy , the movie also features well known and respected actors such as Terence Stamp , Nathaniel Parker and Jennifer Tilly . Especially Stamp and Parker were great . On top of that the movie also features the wonderful Deep Roy , in a really small role though . The movie its musical score by Mark Mancina also really deserves recognition . It was surprisingly great and effective . It can be described as a great and effective horror score as well as an entertaining one . Great children entertainment !
Let the bodies hit the floor !	" Rambo " establishes a new world record of limbs flying around . With an average of 2 . 59 killings per minute , of which some are also innocent civilians such as women and children , this has got to be one of the most violent movies ever made . But its not just the quantity that's amazing but also the quality of it all . Getting an arrow through your head apparently isn't enough , you also need to feel atop of a mine , that has to explode . Obviously " Rambo " is not a recommendable movie just to everyone . It actually makes quite sense though that this fourth Rambo movie installment is so incredibly violent . You have to remember that the first Rambo movie " First Blood " from 1982 was quite renewing and violent for its time . As the Rambo series progressed with " Rambo : First Blood Part II " and " Rambo III " the movie became more and more violent and actually daring for its time . They could had decided to do " Rambo " in the same style as its predecessors , which probably would had gotten them a good movie as well but instead they decided to keep pushing the envelope and see how far they could go now in the 21th century with its gore and violence . Rambo always had been a trend setter for action movies and with the fourth movie " Rambo " it continues to do so . Hard to say what it is that makes " Rambo " such a surprisingly fine movie . Perhaps because it shows balls and this movie is basically one big testosterone driven action flick , that will keep your adrenaline pumping throughout . It foremost is a real man movie and I can't imaging too many women enjoying this movie . But its also a movie of a great quality . The cinematography by Glen MacPherson gives the movie a gritty but beautiful look . But of course its mostly the action that impresses . It's extremely violent but its also done extremely well . Bodies and limbs are flying through the air , limbs are being shot and cut off and the movie features more exploding heads than several zombie movie flicks combined . The movie obviously has some professional stunt-work and pyrotechnics / special effects . Of course when you start analyzing the movie it simply is a very poor one with a very formulaic but also almost non-existent and developed story . It's just a movie you have to experience . This of course goes for most action movies but for this one even more than others . I just have a thing for over-the-top going movies . The Rambo movies are all an example of this , as well as the Rocky series , which also stars Sylvester Stallone in the main lead . Despite the fact that he already was well over 60 years old already at the time of shooting this movie , Sylvester Stallone is still convincing enough in his role of the iconic action hero Rambo . As the tag line says ; ' Heroes never die . . . . They just reload . ' Besides playing the title role , Stallone also directed the movie , making this the first Rambo movie that he directed . I think that the movie deliberately didn't cast any other ' big ' names in it , in order to put the emphasis mainly on Stallone and his character . This is the way it also should be in my opinion . When you have a movie with a character such as Rambo in it , you basically don't need any other interesting characters anymore . Yes , it would had been great if Col . Trautman also had been in the movie , who always had been sort of Rambo's conscience but he isn't missed as much as some people would had expected and feared really . Of course the reason why he doesn't appear in this movie is because the actor Richard Crenna , who played the character in all of the previous Rambo movies , passed away in 2003 . Jerry Goldsmith , the composer of all of the previous Rambo movies had also passed away , in 2004 . His replacement for this movie is Brian Tyler , who's expertize is the action genre . He however did not forget Goldsmith's previous scores for the Rambo movies , which means that this movie features a lot of reprising themes , besides its new original compositions . Probably the most extreme and violent action movie you'll ever see . Clearly not a movie for just everyone but I really liked and appreciated the movie for what it did to raise the bar again within the action genre , just like the previous Rambo movies had done before in the ' 80's and ' 90's .
A fun movie .	This movie is excellent quality entertainment . It's cleverly written , with lots of side-plots and characters that all add to the fun and comedy of the movie . It's definitely true that the movie side-plots and character do tend to make the movie its plot unnecessary difficult to follow at times but all is forgiven really , since it are mostly that same side-plots and its characters in it that makes this movie perfectly good entertainment to watch . The movie is very well written and has a fun story , in which bounty hunter Jack Walsh ( Robert De Niro ) has to get a former mafia accountant ( Charles Grodin ) to L . A . , to the bail bonder ( Joe Pantoliano ) , the accountant jumped bail from . During that travel , Jack and the accountant are being chased themselves as well , by the Mafia , the F . B . I . , another bounty hunter and a couple of other characters that cross their path . Sounds complicated ? Don't worry ! This movie also works well and entertaining with your brain switched off . This is thanks to the fun characters and actors that portray them , the good comical sequences and excellent written dialog . In essence " Midnight Run " is another mismatched buddy movie , like so many were made of , back in the ' 80's . This movie is better and definitely more entertaining than most of those movies due to the fact that the comedy feels non-forced and the story itself seems more clever and well written . The power of this movie is also in its casting . Robert De Niro and Charles Grodin are great together , mainly due to the fact that they are so different and really don't match . It makes the humor and interaction , also the more serious one , work out very well . Yaphet Kotto is also great in his role . He plays his character in a non-comedy way but his character , through it's seriousness , becomes very hilarious . I mean just the subtle thing , like the way he slams the door when he enters a room , is brilliant . Dennis Farina yet again plays a typical gangster role , like he can do best . Joe Pantoliano is also entertaining in an early role . The movie is well directed . Lots is happening in this movie , also with many different side-plots but the movie never strays away from its main plot . It makes the movie coherent and constant to watch , with a good quick pace . Too bad that with " Gigli " director Martin Brest threw away most of his credit as director . The movie is actually quite simple made . It doesn't feature an awful lot of action or complicated sequences . It makes " Midnight Run " a fun ' little movie ' that offers some great entertainment . With all sequences shot on location , standard camera-work and a simple musical score . Fun , well made movie .
The last great Pink Panther movie .	This was the last Pink Panther movie starring Peter Sellers as the clumsy Chief Insp . Jacques Clouseau , before his early death in 1980 . It's also one of the best Pink Panther movies , that still features the distinctive Blake Edwards / Peter Sellers slapstick like comedy approach . It's a genuinely funny movie with more than a couple of great moments , such as the opening sequence with the beumb , Clouseau dressed as a salty Swedish sea dog , Clouseau dressed as a mafia boss , Cato with his thick glasses in Hong Kong , oh and so many more moments . It's the last of the Pink Panther movies that entertains during its entire running time and only makes hits and no misses with its comedy . It's perhaps a bit of an overwritten movie though , in which Clouseau is presumed to be death and he incognito starts to investigate who tried to kill him . Pink Panther movies were never really about its story but simply about the antics of Clouseau . The less - or the more silly the story , also the better the movie is . This movie has perhaps a bit too many characters in it and the storytelling is not always consistent and its last 20 minutes feel rushed . But oh well , it's comedy more than compensates for this all . It's a movie that features all of the necessary required Pink Panther elements , such as Clouseau and Cato fighting , Dreyfus who is trying to kill Clouseau , Clouseau falling in love , Clouseau wearing outrageously stupid disguises and many returning characters from previous Pink Panther movies , such as André Maranne as Sgt . François Chevalier and of course Herbert Lom as Chief Insp . Charles Dreyfus . It's also the first Pink Panther movie to feature Professor Auguste Balls , the man who provides Clouseau with his ' brilliant ' disguises . Professor Balls already appeared in the previous movie " The Pink Panther Strikes Again " but his scenes were eventually cut from the movie . It was also nice to see that Cato's role got extended in this movie . He gets to show some crazy stuff in the second halve of the movie , proofing that Burt Kwouk himself was also one fine comedy actor , who has however understandably so never got rite of his Pink Panther label . It's a movie that shows that director Blake Edwards and Peter Sellers were still at the top of their game with their Pink Panther movies . I'm sure that if Sellers had not died in 1980 many more successful Pink Panther movies would had been made . The movie " Romance of the Pink Panther " was already being written and developed by Peter Sellers ( without any involvement of Blake Edwards by the way ) , which makes it all the more sad and a waste that Peter Sellers past away so early at the age of 54 . " Romance of the Pink Panther " never got made and instead Blake Edwards continued the Pink Panther series with different actors in the main lead and use of archive footage of old cut Sellers footage from previous Pink Panther movies . The last great Pink Panther movie out of the long running series of Pink Panther movies , which recently got a rebooting again with Steve Martin's rendition of Clouseau in the 2006 film , of which a sequel is already currently in development .
Great revenge flick !	Like so many genre movies , this is a typical revenge flick that features all of the usual ingredients and aspect you would expect from a movie like this . It has a well layered story , involving multiple characters and motivations . It's not just a one way revenge flick . I mean , cutting off the arm of the main character isn't enough , there happens and has happened a lot more to him that forms him and leads up to his decision of seeking revenge , which is also aimed at multiple different people . It's a well build up story that doesn't just only rely on its action . It has also got some great characters in it , of course especially the villains . The violence within the movie is quite graphic . Expect seeing blood and limbs flying around . During the action sequences some great and innovative cinematography and editing is being used , which truly uplifts some of the action and the movie as whole . The action and fight sequences themselves are of course also greatly choreographed , as you would expect from a genre movie such as this one . It makes this a movie that will mostly please the genre fans for sure . Especially the end fight does not disappoint ! The many flashback sequences in the movie feel and look sort of surreal , which works magical in the movie . It's a good and professional looking movie with good looking sets , makeup and costumes . The movie looks like it spend its money well and also had obviously more than average to spend on its total budget . A great and typical genre example !
The best of the so far 3 movies .	What the Spy Who Shagged me did wrong , Goldmember did right . Instead of using old jokes and situations , Goldmember knows how to be original . All the characters are even crazier then ever in this one . And then there are the new characters . . . Goldmember is even sillier and crazier than Dr . Evil and sometimes even funnier with his silly accent , Nigel Powers ( Michael Caine ) is a great addition to the cast and Beyoncé Knowles can actually act ! Like in the 2 previous movies , the story is not important . It are the jokes that make the movie . The best thing about silly movie's is their silliness and Goldmember has plenty of that ! There are lots of scene's that make you laugh out loud , something that the other 2 Austin Power's movies at times lacked . If you didn't liked the previous 2 Austin Power's movies then simply don't watch this one . If you liked the previous 2 then this one is a must see ! Best comedy since years . Eagerly awaiting part
A very well made thriller !	This is a typical who-done-it movie . For some odd reason this movie is also at times regarded as an horror-movie and at times even film-noir , this movie however just is a plain good old thriller with a fine , well constructed story , nothing more , nothing less . The movie its story is well constructed and it keeps you guessing till the end who is the serial killer . Every male character is somewhat suspicious , which helps to create a wonderful , mysterious and tense atmosphere . The climax is good and build up very well . Thing I am not so enthusiastic about were the acting performances . Dorothy McGuire was overacting as the mute main character . McGuire is probably best known for playing in " Old Yeller " and the Elia Kazan movie " Gentleman's Agreement " , for which so also won an Oscar . Even worse was Ethel Barrymore , she is terrible irritating in her acting just as her two brothers Lionel and John . I can't believe she received an Oscar nomination for her role in this movie ! No sorry , guess I am not the biggest Barrymore siblings fan around . . . For the people who love a good thriller with a typical who-done-it story , this is simply a must see !
One of the most visual movies ever crafted .	This movie is a great achievement when it comes down to the technical aspects of the movie . The movie is visually a great one but story-wise not an entirely successful one . Its visuals are truly the thing that makes this movie such a remarkable piece of work . The movie is nicely put together with the use of drawn pictures from books , miniatures and life action . To be honest , the slide-show and miniature elements were often more effective and impressive and interesting to watch than the life action sequences with actors . Nevertheless , the movie also features some great looking costumes and make-up effects . Especially the devil looks terrific , though he also looks about as formulaic as can be but that maybe also is the beauty of it . In the beginning the movie still shows a good balance between the ' slide-show elements ' of the storytelling and its life-action sequences . The movie remains almost entirely on its visuals . The movie feels like a history book that is being read to you , complete with fantasy and nightmare like images . However toward the ending the movie almost entirely becomes life-action , which really isn't the movie its strongest point . The story and sequences are often overlong and also quite confusing to follow . Story-wise the movie isn't always the easiest one to follow , since its visuals also makes sure that this movie always has a nightmarish , strange and certainly unique feeling all over it , that provide the movie with some beautiful but also strange and difficult to understand and follow , moments . At first the movie seems to be a sort of documentary like telling of witchcraft through the ages . However toward the end it becomes more and more obvious that this movie is way more than that , as it begins to show parallels between the middle ages and modern life , mainly regarding the position of women and treatment of mental states and such . So the movie also makes a clear - and thought provoking statement and you can actually wonder to yourself what has changed between 1922 and this present day , regarding all those subjects . Parelles between events in this movie and modern day life and society can still be drawn , which is both interesting but also shocking to note . A great to watch and also interesting movie regarding the subject of witchcraft , that is still being considered to be one of the most ultimate resources on the subject and inspired many , later film-makers .
One of the most ridicules yet also one of the best action movies of recent years .	This movie is just totally crazy and over-the-top . Besides the fact that it features a totally implausible concept it also features lots of over-the-top action sequences , that will take you back to the days that the action from the Matrix-movies was still something new and impressive . Even though it's not original anymore it still works out surprising effective as well as refreshing in this movie . You should give credit for this to director Timur Bekmambetov . To be honest , I didn't though he would be ready to do a big Hollywood production yet , or better said ; I didn't think Hollywood would be ready for it . He has a very distinctive fast directing style , that besides can also really be described as weird and different . It makes this action in this movie work out as original as well as truly dazzling . It's mostly its action and the handling of it that makes this one of the better and more pleasant action movies of recent years . It's a movie that luckily doesn't take itself too serious but not by making itself totally ridicules . The movie has plenty of humor and comical character in it to consider this a fun and pleasant one to watch . It's concept may really not let this movie sound like a good or likable action-flick but you should simply give this movie a chance and you will most probably end up liking it . It's an unexpectedly and also unlikely good movie . The movie also features a good musical score from Danny Elfman , who finally delivers a really great and memorable score again for a movie . It had been a while that he composed anything memorable or distinctive from his other work . Lots of big stars were signed up to give this movie a boost but yet the main role is being played by the humble Scotish James McAvoy , who plays a perfect likable , and probably for lots of persons also really recognizable , loser who needs to become an hero and learn to assassinate people with his unique talents . Angelina Jolie also never looked more foxy before in any other movie role . She is one tough chick in this movie , without ever loosing any of her beauty as well . The presence of actors such as Morgan Freeman , Terence Stamp and Thomas Kretschmann also help to uplift the movie . No matter how ridicules its story perhaps is , it still remains a good written , that features a couple of twists in it as well . It's the combination of story , directing and action that the movie works out as a credible and effective one but foremost you should simply enjoy this movie for what it is ; a simple entertaining action-flick with some wonderful and original action moments in it .
The academy regained some if its credibility .	Not only was this is a good show to watch , also most of the winners were surprising . No movie swept away the awards and the ' big ' Oscars were evenly handed among the favorite movies of the evening . It made it a very unpredictable evening and because of that it also was fun to watch . It's never fun to see one movie just win all of the ' big ' Oscars , especially when the movie is not deserving enough of it . So , for the more neutral and unbiased viewer , like myself , this was a great awards show in which the Adademy Awards , for me , regained some of its credibility and respect . The show was fast paced and there weren't any slow or distracting moments . All of the presenters were good and didn't try to be forced funny all the time , like often in the past was the case . As for Jon Stewart , he surprised me . I never really had been a fan of him but he was a great presenter of the evening . Unlike the other presenters from the past , he stood there as a presenter that told some fun jokes in between and not as a comedian who tried to make the audience laugh with basically every single sentence . Stewart never overdid things and because of that he was a great presenter that also was fun to listen to . A bit disappointing however were the montages . I normally always enjoy the montages during the Oscars but the montages used this year contained some weird and unimpressive movie choices at times . It also got a bit tiresome after a while when they kept repeating to the viewers that they should watch movies in theater's rather than home on DVD or on portable-DVD . It felt like one big , unpaid for , advert that in my opinion also was just totally pointless . As for the winners . . . Like I said before , it was a great evening for the neutral movie-viewer . It was a mostly unpredictable evening , with some great and also some surprising winners . The Oscars were handed out extremely even and fair this year . " King Kong " took home 3 Oscar , as well as " Memoirs of a Geisha " , " Crash " and " Brokeback Mountain " . " King Kong " won the most important technical awards , " Memoirs of a Geisha " the most important visual awards and both " Crash " and " Brokeback Mountain " won the ' big ' important awards . So , it was a very balanced evening for most movies . Not all of the awards were a surprise though of course . Most movie buffs already knew that it was simply bound to happen once , that Philip Seymour Hoffman would win an Oscar for best actor and it really was no surprise to anyone that he won this year for his role in " Capote " . It also was fairly determined that Reese Witherspoon would receive the Oscar for best actress , which she also did . Judi Dench already had received enough nominations and credit , plus she already won an Oscar once , Charlize Theron already one won recently , Keira Knightley will almost certainly still win an Oscar later within about 5 or maybe 10 years , the way her career progresses at the moment . She's young , talented and beautiful , so she'll get there . And Felicity Huffman . . . yeah right , like she even had a chance . So no , also Reese Witherspoon was surely no surprise , also because she already had won many other big awards this year for her role in " Walk the Line " . Also no real surprises were ; " La Marche de l'empereur " for best documentary feature , " Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit " for best animated feature film and George Clooney for his supporting role in the movie " Syriana " . Clooney was nominated two more times , first best screenplay and directing for " Good Night , and Good Luck . " . Three nominations , so he was almost bound to receive one . For best screenplay and best directing would had been too controversial , so giving him one for his acting seemed like a fair and predictable move . Clooney himself also knew that he wouldn't receive the Oscar for best screenplay or directing after he had one the best supporting actor award . Of course biggest surprise of the evening was " Crash " winning the best picture award , especially after Ang Lee already had won the best director award during the evening . Everyone basically assumed that " Brokeback Mountain " would win best picture and most of the other important awards of the evening , with maybe " Good Night , and Good Luck . " as the most important underdog . Yeah sure " Crash " had 6 nominations this evening but honestly , who would had ever expected it to win so many and important awards . The movie almost didn't seem to make a chance to win against " Brokeback Mountain " and any of the other movies nominated . But yet it won , which is good for the unpredictability , surprise and credibility level of this year's award ceremony . All in all , " The 78th Annual Academy Awards " was an unpredictable and fun evening with a good presented - and fast show set around it . 2005 was a great and competitive year for the Oscar's . No one will totally agree with the Oscar's handed out this year but for the neutral viewer there was plenty to enjoy .
Historicaly and artistically really great .	Since the 1936 Olympics was pretty much one big propaganda event for Hitler-Germany , this documentary about it can also be seen as a piece of propaganda . You could say that it's just a recording of the event and it doesn't glorify Hitler and Nazism . It show a bit too much of Hitler and his friends than really necessary and it glorifies the German athletes more with its images than with most other athletes is the case . The 1936 were used as a medium to show the supremacy of the Aryan race and show the German athletes as Übermenschen . Besides being known as the Nazi-propaganda Olympics , the 1936 Olympics are of course also known as the Olympics of Jesse Owens . The black American who won 4 golden medals . A clear booing and whistling can also been heard during the first running that he won and during some of his other wins and attempts , while all other athletes got cheered at , no matter were they were from . This didn't only happened to Jesse Owens though , since he of course wasn't the only black athlete at the Olympics who won a medal . They didn't used only footage from the actual Olympics but some of the images were obviously added later into it . I'm not just talking about the movie its intro but also of the actual sporting events . This can be the drop of a spear or discuss and things like that . It's obvious that it's all added later and that the movie is edited in such a way that it's obvious that at times the crowd reactions and all don't really go with the images but for artistic reason it obviously works out well for the movie . It often gives the movie some diversity and more pace as well . The documentary shows the most important attempts and athletes and of course the wins of all events . It often uses multiple camera-angels for this and some slow-motion as well . There is no denying in it that Leni Riefenstahl was a very talented documentary maker though it of course it remains a shame that she mostly used her talent for making Nazi propaganda pieces , despite always having denied she was a Nazi sympathizer herself . It gives her documentaries a bit of a bitter taste , no matter how technical well made and revolutionary they all are . She gets very much appreciated and recognized as a pioneer in documentary making but she also gets hated at the same time . It doesn't really make her documentaries any less great to watch though . It's always something beautiful , renewing and just unforgettable .
Christ , the man of flesh and blood .	Whenever I watch this movie I have the feeling that it's closer to the truth than for instance a movie like " The Passion of the Christ " . This movie feels more realistic , mainly because of the way the Jesus character is portrayed in this movie and overall the movie and its story feels far more believable . In the movie Jesus is portrayed as the son of God but as a human of flesh and blood as well . He has hopes , feelings and dreams like every other man . The story is absolutely fascinating . It's a whole different take on the life of Jesus and the person as well . Lot's of things of the famous story have been changed to a more believable and likely story , without too many supernatural elements but with lots of personal struggles and doubts from Jesus about his mission . Jesus is beautifully portrayed by Willem Dafoe . Also good in their roles were Harvey Keitel as Judas - , this movie also provides a totally different view on his character , and David Bowie as Pontius Pilate , in a much smaller role than you would expect from his character . The movie is filled with some unforgettable , original and though provoking moments , especially towards the ending when Christ gets his ' last temptation ' . It clearly is not a movie for just everyone . Obviously there will be still lots of people who will be offended by the portrayal of Christ and many other different characters from this movie . But also because the movie is quite artistic and almost poetic like at times in its thought provoking moments , it might be a movie that will simply seem ' odd ' to some . So clearly not a movie for just everyone . Still I want to recommend it to everyone so everyone can form their own opinion about the movie its story and characters afterward . Whether you like this movie as a movie , or not , isn't the most important thing . It's the way you feel about the story and the character of Jesus that matters the most afterward . I think this is also what the filmmakers tried to achieve with this movie .
Amazing movie ! . . . till the last 30 minutes .	Don't you just hate it when an ending totally ruins a good movie ? " Signs " unfortunately is a movie like that . The movie starts of extremely well , with original opening credits and some nice character building . The characters are extremely well portrayed by the entire cast and very realistic and likeable . M . Night Shyamalan perfectly knows how to build up a nice atmosphere and tension in a very original way like he did before in his previous well known movies " The Sixth Sense " and " Unbreakable " . The movie stays original till the last 30 minutes , after that the movie turns into some standard Sci-Fi movie with all the cliches you can expect . A shame because " Signs " could have very well been the best movie of 2002 and the " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " of the 21st century . But needless to say the movie is not a complete disaster , how could a movie with some many talent ( cast as well as crew ) involved be . It still has some genius moments that show the amazing talent of M . Night Shyamalan . The use of sound and light makes the movie very tense and yes also really scary at times ! Next to " Das Boot " easily the best movie with the use of sound . The cinematography by Tak Fujimoto is over the top at times but a good job nevertheless ! And James Newton Howard finally delivers a good score for a M . Night Shyamalan movie ( never felt much for " The Sixth Sense " and " Unbreakable " score ) . All in all still a movie very well worth watching , with some scene's that you will never forget . It just a shame about the last 30 minutes . . . Let's hope we will get to see many more M . Night Shyamalan projects with endings that will do more justice to the rest of the movie .
One of the best in its genre .	" Copycat " is a surprising good serial-killer thriller , that perhaps is not the most original movie around but its definitely one of the better executed ones . The movie is well written , with a solid story , main characters and a couple of nice twists . At the beginning you don't really know what the movie is going about and everything is build up in a good , non-forced or overdone way . In the beginning its still a mystery who's behind the killings and it even is subtly implied that the killers could be one of the cops , or one of the other characters in the movie . The movie however takes a twist when it fully shows the killer , his preparations and his actions . The movie is at times told completely from the killers point of view . This works surprisingly effective and it doesn't ruin the tension or mystery of the movie , in any way . What makes the movie effective and also in a way distinctive is that the main characters of the movie are two female characters . They are being portrayed by about the two strongest female leading Hollywood ladies of the moment ; Sigourney Weaver and Holly Hunter . They are two strong and independently , different from each other characters that know to carry the movie . The movie also has an excellent supporting cast with Harry Connick Jr . in a disturbing role , Will Patton and the fairly unknown William McNamara as the killer of the movie . The fact that he isn't as well known as an actor perhaps makes his character work out all the better . I have yet to see a Jon Amiel movie that is original on its own . His movies always heavily ' borrow ' from other movies in the same genre . He's a real ' copycat ' himself you may say . " Copycat " is really no exception to this but it this case it didn't bothered me since the execution of it all was superb and effective . The movie is basically good and tense from start till finish , due to a good pace , interesting well written and developed characters and a good overall build up . The movie perhaps at the end turns into a bit of a formulaic and simple one but it doesn't really downgrade the movie in any way . It all makes this movie one of the better genre movies of the last couple of years . The movie has basically everything in it that is needed to make a good thriller . The movie is good looking with an overall nice visual style , some nice cinematography , nimble editing and a suiting musical score from composer Christopher Young . A simply great genre movie , that deserves some more recognition and that holds up surprising well against other classic genre examples such as " Silence of the Lambs " and " Se7en " .
Just like the main character , the movie turns from bad and ugly to good and beautiful .	I must admit that I was rather worried when I began watching this movie . The movie started of like a melodramatic soap-like movie , with a bad visual look and Bette Davis looked ridicules to say the least . However about half way through the movie I finally began to see where the movie was heading to and the story actually turned out to be rather original , gripping and effective . The story at first seems to be rather formulaic ; An ugly duckling turns into a beautiful swan . And in the first halve the movie unfortunately also IS formulaic . When the main character gets on a cruise and meets her first ( ? ) and true love , I was worried that the movie would turn into a typical ' 30's / ' 40's melodramatic and formulaic love-story , like dozens of were made , in mainly the ' 30's and early ' 40's . The movie however took some original and surprising twists after that . The love-story is not your average love-story were girl meets boy and they start falling in love . The movie and its story is multiple layered ; The man ( Paul Henreid ) is married to a woman who is sort of in the same situation as the girl ( Bette Davis ) he falls in love with used to be ; a timid , insecure woman . The man also has a daughter to whom the girls is really starting to relate to . What at first starts as a simple no-worries romance turns later into a deep bond between a man and a woman , who understand - and help each other . ' Faith ' brings them together multiple times later throughout the movie and they always keep feeling a sort of connection and love for each other . The story doesn't always flow well and too often things occur too sudden . But oh well , that is sort of fitting for early ' 40's style of film-making . So if you've seen more movies from this time period , this hardly should be a complaint . This is really the sort of movie that is carried by its characters . So it definitely helps that the cast is a solid one . Bette Davis and Paul Henreid were good as the main characters and Gladys Cooper was great as the tough and strict mother who is not too happy with her ' unwanted ' youngest daughter ( the Bette Davis role ) . Smaller roles are there for Claude Rains and Mary Wickes , who always was surprising good and enjoyable in her role . Despite the fact that this is a movie from 1942 it looks like it was made in the early ' 30's . It makes this movie also perhaps look way more outdated than it in fact really is . The production values really aren't too high and it shows on the screen . I also wasn't too fond of the melodramatic musical score from Max Steiner . I agree with Bette Davis on this issue ; it was distracting . Ironicaly Steiner won an ( and the only ) Oscar for this movie . The movie was nominated for 2 more Oscars for Bette Davis ' and Gladys Cooper's performances . In my book not a classic must-see , the first halve and the production values of the movie aren't good enough for that but the story and cast compensates a lot . It makes the movie at times intriguing and always interesting and effective .
Quality movie .	This is one fine made movie . It has a greatly written script and a top-notch cast . It sounds like a cliché of course but it's a real shame that movies like these aren't being made and written anymore . At least not on such a commercially large scale and with such fine big name actors in it . Movies like this aren't made anymore simply because movies like this don't really sell , unless they are being made exceptionally good . It's not really a film-noir , although the movie certainly shows similarities to the atmosphere and the story also shows noir tendencies . The movie in the end is perhaps a bit too ' light ' to consider it a real film-noir , also because it features quite an amount of subtle black comedy . The story is solidly constructed and focuses on three different characters and plot-lines that of course are all still connected to each other . The fine script was written by Hollywood legend John Huston . It features lots of deeper themes such as greed and jealousy . You really start to care about the characters and their problems . Something that isn't too common for a ' 40's genre movie . It's not always an easy movie to watch and follow so make sure you watch this movie with a clear head . The dialog might be a bit overlong by todays standards but its so fine written and delivered by the actors that you tend to look past this . The movie gets really carried by the three main characters , that equally share the screen time . I was especially impressed by Sydney Greenstreet , which also might due to the fact that he had the best - or at least most credible plot line . Peter Lorre also played a great role and gave a fine performance . Geraldine Fitzgerald was definitely the least of the three actors and she tended to overact a bit in some of the dramatic sequences . But overall her role was also really a solid one and it says something about the quality of the acting from Lorre and Greenstreet to say that Fitzgerald gave the lesser performance of the movie . Alan Napier also plays a small role . Oh man , it really seems to be that this guy is in about every ' old ' movie that I watch lately . Napier received his most fame for playing the butler Alfred in the Adam West " Batman " series from the ' 60's . The editing of the movie was also surprisingly good and fast . Instead of long single camera sequences , the movie cuts back and forth between different camera positions in the same sequence rapidly . It gives the story speed and helps to keep you interest even during the more slow and dull moments of the movie . The fine little musical score was from acclaimed composer Adolph Deutsch , whose music suited this movie and its atmosphere really well . It's a fine good old fashioned quality movie , made with limited resources but with fine experts involved .
An improvement over the first .	While the first Harry Potter was just entertaining , the second one luckily provides more than just that . Good thing about sequels is that they don't have to waste time on character introduction anymore since we already know the main characters from the first movie . " Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets " also introduce some new fresh character , yet again played by an amazing list of well known actors . Favorite is Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy , Draco's father and Kenneth Branagh as Gilderoy Lockhart . The movie has more story and depth than the first movie had , but still yet again the ending doesn't feel fitting . I did some thinking about it what it is that makes the endings of Harry Potter movies so bad and I came to the following conclusion ; The movie is basically about and relies on the three main characters Harry , Ron and Hermione , towards the ending Harry Potter always has to face ' evil ' on his own , without Ron and Hermione . I think this is the reason why the endings always feels so out of place , without Ron and Hermione , Harry Potter is quite boring and not at his best . The movie still has some other downers , such as Dobby the House Elf and the fact that it still relies too much on the book , with as a result too many pointless characters and moments and some elements that are never completely clear for people who never read the books ( such as myself ) . But thankfully the movie has more ups than downs . Visually the movie looks wonderful with nice costumes and sets . Also the special effects have improved big time ! The game of quidditch looks far better and more realistic than it did in the first movie . Entertaining movie , an improvement over the first . Not for people with arachnophobia though !
Unique .	Even though unfortunately this movie was not as brilliant as the other and earlier written Charlie Kaufman movie " Being John Malkovich " it's still a great and unique watch . Still not entirely fair that this movie always have been given more credit than " Being John Malkovich " , fore this movie is surely not without it flaws . It above all things is a Charlie Kaufman . It's not necessarily a Michel Gondry movie , not necessarily a Jim Carrey movie , or not necessarily a Kate Winslet movie . It's a movie that really has a typical trademark Charlie Kaufman style all over it . A real accomplishment and what other movie writer can say a thing like that as well . This movie also earned Kaufman his first ever Oscar , while he already got nominated two times before in the past . " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " takes you along for a ride and takes you to a strange world , in which you know more than halve of it isn't for real . It's a dream like movie but not as far off as I probably make it sound right not . It's a perfectly accessible movie for all type of audiences . Don't be alarmed or scared off by it's art-house kind of reputation . The story is at all times perfectly understandable , even though quite some strange things are happening in it . It's an unique movie for sure , that also has a unique love theme in it . It's refreshing that it doesn't handle it romantic aspects in a formulaic way , though it also needs to be said that it's also thanks to Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet's performances that its main story and two main characters work out so well for the movie and therefore also its romantic theme . It's again one of those roles in which Jim Carrey shows that he can really act , without trying to be or look funny all of the time . Too bad a lot of people still don't see this . The movie also features some other great and well known actors beside Carrey and Winslet , such as Elijah Wood , Mark Ruffalo , Kirsten Dunst and Tom Wilkinson . It's a great movie with some great movie-making tricks . It's a true visual movie , with an almost constant dream like atmosphere . A lot of old fashioned techniques are being used , which are all still better looking than modern special effects and are therefore more effective , especially for this type of movie , as well . My complaint with this movie is though that its story and the way it's progressing is quite predictable all . It's not really the story that offers the movie with its most unique or greatest moments , though the writing in general still remains great , as weird as that might sound . Hopefully you will understand what I mean by this when you watch the movie yourself . Certainly a great and also definitely unique movie to watch . Especially for the Kaufman fans .
Yet another great memorable Laurel & Hardy short !	" Chickens Come Home " truly is among the best of the Laurel & Hardy shorts . The story is very simple but gives the boys lots of opportunity to show their silly antics . The end result is a simple but very hilarious movie . The movie is filled with many humorous moments . Especially the ending is an hilarious , as well as a memorable one . It's a very consistent , constantly funny comedy short in which Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are at their best and in the prime of their careers . Lot's of Laurel & Hardy regulars also show up again in this movie . Especially notable is James Finlayson as Oliver's butler . He is fantastic and absolutely hilarious in his role . As always , he doesn't try to steal the show but he unwillingly still does so . Other notable regulars in the movie are ; Mae Busch and Baldwin Cooke , among others . Among their very best work and therefor also simply a must-see for the Laurel & Hardy fans !
A Christmas movie that isn't a Christmas movie by the usual standards .	This is one rather special and certainly original Christmas movie . It still has the Christmas spirit and message in it but it delivers it in a never-seen-before package . Never has there been so much profanities and sex in a Christmas movie before and most likely there never will be again . It all works out well though for the movie and it makes its comedy and originality stand out . Billy Bob Thornton is a Santa Clause unlike any other . He swears in front of children , drinks a lot , enjoys anal sex with women and he basically doesn't care about anything . Besides , he's a thief and an expert at safe-cracking . All very convenient , when you as a Santa Clause in shopping mall have access to the safe , after closing time . But as you could expect this all slightly changes , once he meets a young , fat , not too bright kid , who starts to regard him as his second father . This sounds very sentimental and also very predictable for a Christmas movie but due to the movie its approach you can never accuse this movie of not being original . The sentimentality and messages of the movie all work out so well because of this . It's not a laughing-out-loud type of comedy but more of a subtle one , that is funny due to its very profanity and contrasts it shows with the usual Christmas movies . Quite a daring project but yet the movie never raised any objection and protest because of the simple reason that it's such a fine movie . Truly finally a Christmas movie that got aimed completely toward the adult audience . Of course part of the reason why the movie works out so well is Billy Bob Thornton's performance , for which he even received a Golden Globe nomination but lost to Bill Murray , for his role in " Lost in Translation " . Ironicaly enough Bill Murray was first signed on for the lead role in this movie but later dropped out to do " Lost in Translation " instead . The movie also truly has one fine supporting cast with actors like Tony Cox , John Ritter and Bernie Mac involved . The acting feels really natural within this movie , which is really thanks to the approach of director Terry Zwigoff . It's a quite slowly told movie , that never pretends to be more than it is and doesn't feature any big sequences . Instead really little and subtle sequences , with some static camera-work and long shots , with often some nimble editing involved to capture even further the emptiness and also the subtle absurd-ism of the movie . It's like a Wes Anderson-Christmas movie , only done better and way funnier than something he has ever done in his career !
One of the simplest and also one of the best .	In its core this is really one simple straight-forward action flick . It's part of the reason why this movie is just so great and a true genre classic but also when you look past the surface , you'll see that this movie has so much more to offer . The story in its main core is real simple ; An Vietnam vet who is being chased by a couple of mean cops through the woods . This is basically how most part of the movie is like . It's good and also sort of refreshing that there are totally no distracting different plot-lines and needless characters or comical relief or anything else of that sort , that most other genre movies have . But the movie is really more than just a ' dumb ' overblown action flick . It actually knows to still very humane and on a small scale , as strange as that may sound , since this movie is known for being one of the most ultimate action movies out there . The movie mostly works out as well as it does due to it's main character John J . Rambo , who has become a real action movie icon . He is definitely a character who is on the edge and looks like he can snap any moment but we understand him nevertheless . Even though he says as little as possible you can still follow his emotions . For this , also credits needs to go to Sylvester Stallone . of course lots of people have criticized his acting over the years , the same as all big action movie actors got criticized . But playing a believable and likable action movie character also really takes skill , especially the role of Rambo , who is a real well layered character in terms of emotions and personality . Brian Dennehy and Richard Crenna also play some real good roles . The acting within this movie is not what you perhaps would expect at first sight from an action movie . It was also fun to see a still very young David Caruso in a for him early movie role . It's a quite hard brutal action flick , even though funny enough only one person in this entire movie dies on screen . Nevertheless , Rambo causes the cops and his other chasers lots of different injuries , by guns as well as self made weapons and contraptions . So for the fans of the action genre this movie has plenty to offer for them . The movie isn't made by the most talented cast or crew that was around at the time but it's just one of those movies in which everything comes together and eventually works out perfectly and takes each and everyone involved in the production to a whole new higher level of prestige . What I also like about this - and all of the other Rambo movies , is the Jerry Goldsmith musical score , except for the latest Rambo movie from this year obviously , since Goldsmith past away in 2004 . I feel it's one of his more underrated works . Everybody knows the theme for movies such as " Jaws " . " Rocky " or James Bond but not that many actually also known the Rambo theme , even though it's at least just as brilliant and recognizable . Perhaps it has to due with the fact that it was an action movies score done in the ' 80's , which of course was not the most respectable genre at its time . Still great and also quite unique within its genre .
Typical - but great , American , coming of age movie .	In the ' 40's these coming of age movies were pretty popular in America . Some good though always sappy movies were made in that time period . " Kings Row " is definitely one of the more better and memorable one's . It's a story of growing up in a small American town , around and before 1900 . The movie features lots of characters but mainly focuses on the two friends Parris and Drake . The movie follows them from their early youth , to their early adulthood , involving their early love-life , study and jobs . Of course the movie also features the necessary drama and deaths . I mean , there probably is more drama in this , than in a month of soap-series episodes . Definitely an over-the-top dramatic story but it works amazingly well . As a matter of fact , the story is really the highlight of the movie . Lots is happening and the movie isn't heading in one clear main direction . It gives the movie a couple of surprises in its drama and doesn't make the movie as predictable as you maybe would expect from a genre-piece like this one . The many characters in this movie are just great and well written . Everybody serves a purpose in the story and for the development of the two real main characters of the movie . On top of that , they are also being played by some great actors . Robert Cummings and Ronald Reagan are real great as the two main characters . Reagan has never been known for his solid actor performances but this movie forms an excellent exception . One of his biggest and perhaps also best roles out of his career . See it to believe it . Also the supporting cast is great with Ann Sheridan , Charles Coburn and Claude Rains in some notable roles . The movie doesn't really ever pick on true main character . At first the movie mainly focuses on Parris but the second halve is mostly about Drake . Also , the key characters in the first halve of the movie differ from the ones in the second . It's an approach that works well for the story and keeps it interesting , original and unpredictable to follow , from start till finish . The movie is typically ' 40's looking , meaning that the style is kept simple and the sets cheap but all good enough to serve their purpose . The musical score by Erich Wolfgang Korngold is outstanding and deserves recognition . A great movie to watch and one of the better ones out of its genre .
Great ' little ' drama .	" Monster's Ball " is a wonderful drama , made without any big budget or tricks . It's a movie with a heart and soul . In other words film-making at its very best . To me it's a movie that is all about second chances in life . The two main characters , played by Billy Bob Thornton and Halle Berry , both went to some dreadful things that changed their lives . After that have to pick things up again and have to chance to do the things in their lives differently now and also look differently upon certain matters now . During this process the two are drawn towards each other but their relationship is more born out of desperateness than love . The fact that Thornton's character is the prison guard on Death Row who executed Halle Berry's husband ( played by Sean Combs ) , makes the love even more complicated . The movie is truly carried by the two main character played by Billy Bob Thornton and Halle Berry . Both give some powerful performances and make all the dramatic and love elements of the movie work . There also is a very strong supporting cast . Mos Def is a great actor and so is Heath Ledger . It's too bad Ledger's career never really got of the ground . After " The Patriot " everybody expected some great things from this young actor but so far he has only played in some semi-successful but not so well by the press received movies , ( " The Four Feathers " , " A Knight's Tale " , " The Brothers Grimm " . ) with the exception of this movie of course . " Monster's Ball " is a great little drama by director Marc Forster and fans of the genre must definitely watch this movie . I was impressed by this movie and had a great time watching it . Great movie !
Good quality entertainment .	I'm not one of those persons who praises " Shrek " all the time as one of the greatest movies ever made , like many other persons seem to do . Quite frankly I never really understood what the hype was all about . But still you have to give credit to this movie , it's very entertaining and fun to watch over and over again . A good sidekick is always important , especially in an animated movie . A good sidekick can make the movie better but a bad sidekick can really ruin a movie . " Shrek " doesn't have a good sidekick . . . it has an excellent sidekick ! Donkey is a wonderful and entertaining character thanks to Eddie Murphy who voiced him . The other main voices are provided by Mike Myers , Cameron Diaz and John Lithgow . Further more I would like to add that I absolutely love the character Pinocchio in this movie . The story is told in a good way with a nice pace , I especially like how subtle some Disney movies and characters are spoofed . But for some reason I never really found the story in general that very appealing . The movie is well animated and it shows that DreamWorks is a worthy competitor for Pixar . The music is good and takes the movie to an higher level and I'm not just talking about the evergreen songs but also about the movie soundtrack by John Powell and Harry Gregson-Williams who know how to compose a good and fun score for animated movies . Although it's getting more credit than it really deserves , it's still a fun and entertaining animated movie .
Typical ' 40's drama done Welles style .	This movie is very typical for the ' 40's . It's an epic family drama , in which a lot of drama is happening . Best example of this genre is perhaps " Gone With the Wind " . Well OK , bad example perhaps since that movie is from 1939 and not the ' 40's but when you say " Gone With the Wind " everyone knows the type of movie you mean . Those movie were really popular - and flourished in the ' 40's . I must say though that during that time period some better genre movies . A lot better and more powerful movies . Only thing that still makes this movie good and a bit more special is Orson Welles his touch . It's funny how basically every Orson Welles movies seems so ahead of its time . It's techniques , it's storytelling . It's all something you wouldn't expect from an ' 40's movie but more from one made decades later . Also Welles his love for the radio shows in this movie . The movie is being made and told as a radio show , only with moving of course added to it , with Welles providing his own voice for the narration . Prior to this movie , Welles also made a radio show of the novel , this movie as well is being based on . For this , he used most of the actors that also star in this movie . The movie really doesn't feature the best known actors from its era but everyone is simple well cast and suits their roles superbly . It even earned Agnes Moorehead an Oscar nomination . She really earned it as well in my opinion . She played the best character out of the movie and was truly splendid in her role . Her acting style didn't really seemed like anything common for ' 40's standards , which is perhaps the reason why her acting and characters stands out so much in the movie . A problem I had with the movie though is that it was too long and just not always interesting to watch . Well , the movie actually isn't long at all with its 88 minutes but still the movie feels like a 3 hour drama production . Hard to say if this is Orson Welles his fault really , since it were the studios that ' butchered ' this movie by cutting out 50 minutes of it , through editor and later turned famed director Robert Wise . Maybe Welles his version was a better flowing one , with some more drama and other moments added to it . We will never known , since the ' original ' Welles version is most likely lost forever . Nevertheless it otherwise still is a superior made movie , with some wonderful new fresh used techniques . Orson Welles was truly a pioneer in film-making and this movie as well is a good example of this , even though it's not his best or most interesting one . But is there even such a thing as a bad Orson Welles movie ?
Not the funniest but one of the best written Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts .	Can you even call this a comedy short ? The movie is nearly 40 minutes long and it actually features a plot line . Anyway , short or long feature , this movie is a well written and directing one which makes this movie a very enjoyable and comical great movie . After once again being letdown in love , Oliver Hardy signs up with the Foreign Legion to forget his problems . Of course he drags Stan Laurel along with him . Once joined , they get into the middle of a battle between the Foreign Legion troops and a tribe of Arabs . This plot line doesn't sound unfamiliar for the Laurel & Hardy fans , since this theme is used in a dozen of other Laurel & Hardy pictures . Still " Beau Hunks " is a original movie on its own , mainly because its a well written and directed one . The movie has some really great and comical dialog . It doesn't rely so much on its slapstick humor but that doesn't mean this movie is any less fun than other Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts . Also its action and scale is quite nice which helps to make this movie one of the most impressively good looking shorts . The acting is great . Of course Laurel & Hardy are great as ever and so is the impressing Charles Middleton , who still is best known for playing Emperor Ming in the Flash Gordon movies from the ' 30's . Also fun was to see Jean Harlow as the woman in the picture , who is a important returning element in the movie . It's nice to see the boys paying homage to the then already famous Jean Harlow , with who they worked together in the silent comedy short " Double Whoopee " . Director James W . Horne also plays a small part in the movie . The only Laurel & Hardy movie in which he appears as an actor . The movie is further more filled with a whole bunch of Laurel & Hardy regulars in bit parts such as Baldwin Cooke , Charlie Hall , Jack Hill , among others . A very well made that also is fun to watch as well . Highly recommendable !
Perhaps the most awesome vampire movie ever made .	Guess this movie is a case of ; you'll either love it or hate it . A vampire movie set in China , combined with Kung Fu elements might definitely not be just everyone's cup of tea . It's an highly unusual mixture of different genre elements , with as a result an highly unusual and original Hammer movie . I just love how the movie combines the different elements and how it works out in the movie . By right this movie can definitely been seen as a Kung Fu movie , rather than an horror . The movie is filled with many spectacular and great choreographed fighting sequences and most definitely lays its emphasis on the action rather than the story or horror themes of the movie . The movie is also made from the period when Asian Kung Fu movies were popular in the West . Hammer tried to jump on the bandwagon with making this movie . It's an unique experiment from the Hammer studio's that might shock / disappoint some Hammer fans but pleasantly surprise others as well , such as me . The movie is shot entirely on location in Hong Kong , which definitely helps to set the right mood and atmosphere . Most Hammer movies are usually studio work , so in that way it already makes this movie an unique one . Like most Roy Ward Baker movies , the movie and its sequences are very well build up . It provides the movie with some unforgettable and impressive sequences and moments . The story on its own is to be fair not really that impressive or even clear enough but the build up and style of it all is great . So yes , the movie is definitely a case of style over substance but in this particular case , I really didn't mind . Normally Peter Cushing is an enrichment for every Hammer movie . However in this case I'm not too sure about it if his character Van Helsing was completely required . After all , this is a Kung Fu movie . No place for Van Helsing's wooden stake here . The movie might at first seem a Dracula movie but in fact the character of Dracula plays a very little part in the movie , only at the beginning and the end . No wonder Christopher Lee declined this movie . The real main villains of the movie are the 6 vampire warriors . The one's that try to stop them are Van Helsing and his son , a rich noble woman and a family of Kung Fu experts , who each have their own specialty and weapons ( a bow , knives , swords , etc . ) . The movie is basically a traveling movie in which every now and then they are being attacked . It does make this movie a rather simple one but it perhaps is this same simplicity that makes this movie such a lovable and great one to watch . The fight sequences are truly awesome and amazingly choreographed and brought to the screen . The sequences however last a bit too long and there also are a bit too many of those sequences present to keep the movie entirely original and surprising . This is perhaps my only beef with the movie . I would love to see a Quentin Tarantino remake of this movie .
The coming of collective farming and new way of life ,	The movie is not as good and effective with its shots as a Sergei Eisenstein movie for instance . You can see in parts that this movie was really influenced by Eisenstein's earlier work , also in the way of camera-work and editing . But nevertheless the movie has some obvious other qualities of its own that make this a great viewing experience . I liked the way the movie progressed . Yes , of course it's propaganda but that doesn't make the storytelling within the movie any less great . It isn't the fastest going movie and it takes its time to establish thing , also with the help of long shots of the countryside and other nature elements and symbolisms , which in essence this movie is of course all about . Of course Russian movie making techniques were a couple of years behind in those days . The quality looks about as good as Hollywood movies from the ' 20's but I like this , since it also shows that Russian movies from those days had a completely different style and approach , then anywhere else in the world . It always makes it refreshing and something totally different to watch a Russian movie from the ' 20's / ' 30's . it's a bit of a dark movie though and you can wonder if it isn't a bit too dark . Death is an important element in this movie and apparently the dark themes within the movie were also the reason why many Russians at the time didn't very much enjoyed this movie . Really worth seeing for its imagery and the way the story slowly progresses .
Historical important and influential movie .	This movie is one of the first narrative shot movie , with scenes that all add up to each other and are used to tell a story with in a linear way . Quite unique for early 1900's standards . Back in that time period , only short sequences were always shot , mostly documentary style . It was never really used as a tool to tell a imaginary story with . It however is not just one of the very first narrative movies but also one of the earliest , if not earliest Western-movie . The storytelling is really great , though the story and movie itself is absolutely simple . It's just basically about a bunch of bandits who rob a train and the passengers on it . Is the movie itself really that good to watch ? I don't think so . It's very simplistic but it remains interesting to watch nevertheless because the movie gives you a feeling , for the entire running time , that what you're watching at the moment is unique , revolutionary and historically important , for the further influence on the future of modern cinema . In that regard this movie is a great classic must-see for the movie lovers - and buffs . The movie is fast paced with some action as well . The movie features a chase and a couple of gun fights , with a great classic last shot . It makes the movie perhaps more spectacular to watch than you at first sight would expect , from a movie made in 1903 . Really not the greatest classic movie to watch but historically very interesting and unique and for that reason an absolute must-see .
A typical fine William Wyler period drama .	This was not a movie that I particularly liked watching ( perhaps it's just not my favorite genre ) but it simply was one fine made movie , that is effective in basically everything it tries to achieve . There is no denying it that this is a great movie . It features a strong dramatic story , in which Bette Davis plays the central character . It's a strong and independent woman for her time ( the movie is set in the 1850's ) , yet also spoiled and stubborn , who of course eventually has to pay for her deeds . Bette Davis plays a role in which she could had easily gone over-the-top with , since its a very stubborn and spoiled character but instead she plays her role more humane and realistic , which also keeps her likable . She even won an Oscar for her role in this movie . Western expert actor Henry Fonda also plays one fine role and I especially liked the work he did with the accent within this movie . The movie further more among others also features the always great Donald Crisp . Donald Crisp was never an actor who played the main lead in a movie but he always played small and humble but great roles , which also should be a reason why he got cast in so many fine and well known movies throughout his career . The same somewhat also goes for George Brent , who plays Buck Cantrell in this movie . It's a well cast movie with fine acting performances , which mostly also carries the movie . Max Steiner also delivers one fine Oscar nominated musical score for this movie . Steiner was one of the big composers from the early days of film-making for a good reason . Like basically every period movie at the time , it's a fine looking movie with some impressive sets and costumes . It's often being compared to " Gone with the Wind " due to its story , themes , time period the movie is set in and it got shot around the same time but this really ain't fair in my opinion . " Jezebel " isn't even nowhere close in the same league and epic proportions as " Gone with the Wind " and " Jezebel " is a more light and less complicated one , that has a totally different style and breaths a total different atmosphere , not in the least also since " Gone with the Wind " is a movie in color of course . A fine multiple Oscar nominated and winning movie from William Wyler .
A case of the quill being mightier than the sword .	The movie features a great and original story of a writer , who happens to be an insane asylum inmate , during the Napoleonic era who through his writing knows to manipulate and control everyone around him , of all levels of society . His stories are daringly sexual orientated ( for its time of course ) and is attracting all kinds of people . Amazingly enough the story is even supposedly based on a true story , although of course the movie story-wise took some liberties , with its characters as well . The movie doesn't only focus on its main manipulative character but also those around him , who basically each have an own motive and story-line in the movie but are of course all connected with each through the stories and the Marquis de Sade personally . It of course helps in this that all of the characters are being portrayed by some excellent actors . It's not your typical costumes drama and it also isn't a typical Philip Kaufman movie . Kaufman doesn't direct often or many movies but when he does it normally is always something good and also special , that is just a bit different from the usual genre movie the movie gets made in . Of course this movie features a lot of sexual undertone , which gives the movie a special and also yet somehow unpleasant kind of atmosphere , which I mean in a positive way . As could be expected , the dialog for this film is amazing . It's deliciously old fashioned and often poetic . Really some Shakespearian like written here . And again , it really helps that the movie has some great actors delivering the lines . Geoffrey Rush is a real scene stealer and no wonder he received an Oscar nomination for his role in this movie . It further more features the other multiple nominee - and Oscar winners such as Michael Caine , Kate Winslet and Joaquin Phoenix . The four principal actors , as of yet , share a total of 13 Oscar nominations and 3 wins . It says something about their qualities and the acting performances in this movie . Of course the movie is also great looking with its sets and costumes as well as with its cinematography and directing style . On a downside note , the movie tends to be a bit overlong . Even though the movie is just over 2 hours long , it still feels much longer and it gives you the feeling the movie should had reached its conclusion earlier on . It's not that the movie ever bores , it just starts to drag a bit as it heads toward its ending . A special kind of movie that is worth watching .
All madness , no story .	This is a movie that actually doesn't really have a main plot-line in terms of following one main character and have a clear beginning , middle part and end . Just like war there is no logic in it and things just happen within this movie as the movie moves along . It puts you right in the middle of things and shows you the madness of war . It handles all different kinds of aspects from the war . It doesn't only show the situation from the viewpoint of the young soldiers but it also focuses on the family and girls back home . It doesn't do this by featuring it too prominently but picks out an handful of minor characters and just a couple of sequences to get the message across . This works out really well and it doesn't feel melodramatic or anything like that . Modern movies can really learn something from this . But of course foremost the movie gets set in the trenches , somewhere in France . The movie is filled with some WW I battle sequences , which are all surprising good and authentic looking . Guess lots of materials and places from WW I were still around during the production of this movie so they did not have an hard time recreating the look and feeling of the battles fought out in the trenches . It was the first sound movie from Georg Wilhelm Pabst and this shows . Nothing too major , it are just some little things showing you that ' talkies ' hadn't been around yet for very long and Georg Wilhelm Pabst wasn't also too experienced with it yet . He pretty much shot this movie in the same way as he would had filmed a silent movie . The movie is of course also original with the fact that it tells the story from the German point of view . While watching this movie you don't actually ever give you the feeling you're watching the movie from the ' evil ' and bad point of view . All parties are more or less victims within a war and things are not as black & white as they always seem . Simply a real good and effective WW I production , especially when considering that it got shot way back in
Surprisingly good and tense movie .	What good could you expect from a movie with an ' hip ' title such as " Joy Ride " , with a couple of pretty youngster in it . Well , " Joy Ride " surprises on almost every front and it's not like most other modern horror / thrillers , in which youngster play the main role . The genre that is being very popular this decade with movies such as " Jeepers Creepers " and remakes such as " House of Wax " . After seeing those movies , this movie really feels like a breath of fresh air . What makes " Joy Ride " so incredibly good and effective is the build-up of the tension . It's a sort of minimalistic movie , in terms of that it often doesn't show what is happening but rather imply things . It provides the movie with some typical ' edge-of-your-seat ' kind of moments and also for most part makes this an unpredictable movie to watch , with plenty of good genre surprises in it . Even though this movie doesn't really have a monster or gore in it , it still can really be seen as an horror movie , not in the least thanks to it's wonderful build-up and overall atmosphere . John Dahl proofs himself once more to be a more than capable director . Yes , of course the movie shows plenty of similarities between other ' road-kill ' movies such as " Duel " and " The Hitcher " so you can't really call this movie an original one . But nevertheless , the movie never feels like a bad rip-off that tries to cash in on the back's of other movies . The movie has plenty to offer on its own and certainly has enough quality to distinct itself from the average genre attempt , especially when compared to most other comparable genre movies from this decade . The story doesn't always flow too well and it often makes some sudden jumps . You can also say that in some parts not enough is happening but I think that this is all part of the build-up of the movie . The movie wants you to feel safe while watching and makes you feel at ease , until it then suddenly lets its action and tension kick in again , which makes it all the more effective of course . Seemed to me that Steve Zahn was thinking he was making a comedy at times . He of course is also mostly a comedy-actor , which might explain this . Perhaps it was also part of the director and build in as a sort of back-up . It was like they were thinking ; hey , if the horror / tension of the movie doesn't work out , we can still turn it into a more comical / light less serious movie when needed . But I forgive them . It are not really the actors or characters that carry the movie , it's more a real movie that relies purely on its tension , atmosphere and surprises . Perfectly watchable and recommendable and way more than just another ' modern 00's-teenage-horror / thriller-flick ' .
Romance , drama and then some more drama .	Thing with these ' 40's dramatic movies is that they are always so melodramatic . The drama in these type of movies just never seem to seize to end and it often takes some very epic proportions . It at the same time always makes these movies incredibly powerful to watch , when done correctly . " In This Our Life " is such a movie that features some very strong drama , not in the least thanks to its great cast . The movie has a fine story that focuses on a family and the two sisters of the family in particular , played by Bette Davis and Olivia de Havilland . Of course quite ridicules and unconvincing to think that de Havilland and Davis are supposed to be sisters within this movie . I mean , de Havilland is far too beautiful for that , when comparing her looks to Davis ' . Nevertheless you'll buy it , thanks to the acting performances and Davis ' in particular . It perhaps is one of the most rotten and best roles out of her career . The first halve of the movie is mostly a romantic-dramatic one , while the second halve of the movie focuses more on the family dramatic aspects . It's not like you're watching two separate movies though , both parts are connected to each other and both are important and relevant for the movie its story . It's a movie filled with all kinds of dramatic themes and I must say that some of them even surprised me a bit when considering this movie got made back in 1942 . The movie seemed to be ahead of its time with some of its plot elements , such as the treatment of Afro-Americans within American society and then in particular also by the law . With this , this movie must have been quite controversial for its time by showing how the black Americans got treated by the legal system . You can of course also leave it up to John Huston to tell a relatively simple and small story in a big , epic , dramatic way . Before he became a successful director he was a successful writer who wrote the screenplays for some great successful classics , so I think the fact that he was such a talented writer also had to with it that he was such a great director as well . Besides writing and directing he also starred as an actor in quite a few movies , including some classics . He also plays a very small role in this movie as a bartender . A great powerful melodramatic movie from the ' 40's .
Impressive .	The fifth " The Hire " movie is an impressive little short . It's impressive because of the story , that is helped by its gritty atmosphere . The atmosphere is wonderful and typically Mexican style like . It really reminded me of " Man on Fire " . It's gritty and sets the perfect mood for the story . The great cinematography is from 2 times Academy Award winner Robert Richardson and the music is from the talented composer Harry Gregson-Williams . The movie and its story know to impress and it has some wonderful dialog , altogether with a powerful ending is what makes this movie a bit of a must see .
More of the same and that's not a bad thing .	I liked the first American Pie movie beyond expectations , so I of course was very interested in watching part 2 as well . It's like most sequels ; it's more of the same old stuff that was already shown in the first movie . In this case that isn't really a complaint because it's good stuff to watch . It's perfectly entertaining and has some great memorable moments in it to also distinct itself from the first movie . Once more the power of the movie lies in its characters . They are all a perfect bunch of characters and I was happy to see that almost every single actor from the first movie once more returned for this one . All of the actors still look good and comfortable in their roles . The characters are truly the reason why this movie is better than the average teenage comedy . Even though there of course is very little story in this movie it still is a entertaining movie to watch that never gets boring . Once again the story has also a morale in it , which is a good but not an entirely necessary thing for this movie . More hilarious and odd moments in this typical teenage comedy . Basically its more of the same but that's not a bad thing to say in this case .
Wallace & Gromit and the penguin from hell .	Wallace & Gromit really face a dark and sinister villain this time ; a penguin . The penguin never speaks and he hardly does anything but it's this same subtlety that makes him such an evil sinister - and therefore at the same time also hilarious and amusing villain . I don't know what it is about penguins but they always work out as such superb and amusing characters in animated movies . The story is however of course far from likely . I mean , how did the penguin even knew Wallace had mechanical trousers that he could use for his heist . And why at all would you use the tall and sluggish , sleeping Wallace to do a robbery for you . It's just too risky and doesn't really sound like the right suiting master-plan for the criminal genius the penguin is . But oh well , this of course doesn't make this Oscar-winning short animated movie any less fun to watch . In this modern day and age of technology claymation doesn't seem like the best weapon of choice to deliver a good , entertaining and convincing looking movie with . However with Wallace & Gromit , Aardman Animations have never failed at it to bring a good , entertaining and convincing looking movie . It's pretty amazing what you can do with just some simple pieces of clay . Characters are given a real personalities and sequences are looking very well done and detailed , as if it comes straight from a multi-million dollar budget movie . Wallace & Gromit however are not part of multi-million dollar budget productions . It's always kept small and simple and that's the charm of it . It's all kept simple , yet it's done in an incredibly professional way . This is also always a part of the movie its comedy . The movie features many crazy and also unlikely situations , that are being shot in such an incredible serious way that they tend to become hilarious . Just like at the mini-train chase sequence at the end . Quality entertainment from Aardman Animations .
Shows that Mexicans have a monopoly on good film-making .	Lately , lots of successful and good Mexican director are emerging . Just think about Guillermo del Toro , Alejandro González Iñárritu , Alfonso Cuarón . Mexican cinema is hotter than ever . Carlos Reygadas is not as well known as those previous mentioned Mexican directors but that all has got to do with the fact that his movies aren't exactly mainstream . But even if you don't like the movie , you should see that Carlos Reygadas is a great director . Yes , it's a fairly artistic and unusual movie , that uses some interesting film making techniques and approaches . So expect lots of long and moving shots and a ' long ' slow moving story , with lots of staring , oh yes and of course explicit sex sequences . So if you can't handle this , just don't bother to watch . It's all about the art of film-making in this one . It makes " Batalla en el cielo " above all a beautiful movie to watch . It were also mostly its visuals and directing approach of this movie that made me like and enjoy it as much as I did . It was not the story and most certainly not the acting . To give the movie an even more realistic and particular approach , mostly non-actors were used for this movie , although Anapola Mushkadiz surely is a discovery . It was obvious that most actors involved had never acted in any form before . I can surely understand why the film-makers decided on this . It gives the movie an even more special style and atmosphere and enhances the movie its effect . Carlos Reygadas is more an artist than film maker as this movie shows . He didn't particularly tried to create a movie but more an observation of real people in real but not every day situations , each looking for something different . Unfortunately the movie does get a bit worse when it heads toward the ending and it dozes off even more . But no , this movie is not as far off and weird as I probably make it sound right now . The movie is also perfectly watchable for those who don't like art-house movies but still want to see something different for a change .
A warm movie .	This is a movie with a very warm and pleasant atmosphere . It has a childish innocence over it , like basically all these typical genre movies from the ' 30's seem to have . It's atmosphere , story and characters make this a very pleasant and entertaining movie to watch . It has a very simple concept , in which a French baker's wife run of with a shepherd , after the first night they moved in to a small village , in the middle of the countryside . After this the baker refuses to make bread anymore . The villagers of course want their daily fresh bread so they together come up with a plan to get her back to the bakery . It all sounds very simple but thanks to its fine storytelling from director Marcel Pagnol it all works out real well . There also is of course more to the story , courtesy of some fine input from the movie its characters and actors portraying them . It's a well cast movie , with French character actor Raimu in the main lead . The other cast members all have some very characteristic look over them , the way only the French can look . I'm not too happy about the casting of Ginette Leclerc though . She is supposed to be a very pretty woman in the movie but just look at the way Leclerc look . . . she is no natural beauty . Or perhaps her looks just were the idea of a true beauty , in the France of the 1930's . It takes a while for the movie to pick up its pace and the movie also tends to drag on a bit in its middle part but in the many parts that the movie finds its right pace , the movie is a great one . It's a real enjoyable comedy , that is not the type of comedy that has some hilarious moments that will make you laugh out loud in it but it's more the type of comedy that tries to constantly entertain . It doesn't fail at that , thanks to the movie its very pleasant atmosphere , simplistic story and likable characters . Especially the movie its last halve , in which the villagers start to undertake action , is just great . A fun and warm little movie .
Jack Cassidy did it again !	I don't know but a magician who kills a person in a murder-mystery has some formulaic sound over it . The whole killing and story approach of this movie however still give it an overall original touch . For the third time in his career Jack Cassidy starred in a Columbo movie . Also in the this movie he plays the killer , like he did as well 2 and 5 years before in the Columbo movies " Columbo : Publish or Perish " and the Steven Spielberg directed " Columbo : Murder by the Book " . He starred in this Columbo movie in the same year as his early sudden death . He died when his couch caught fire after falling asleep with a lit cigarette on December 12th of the same year . He was only 49 at the time , despite looking much older than that though . That's also the reason why he throughout his career played characters who were much older than him , as was also the case in this movie , in which he plays an ex-Nazi , who gets uncovered by his employee and therefor kills him . Harvey Hart seemed to be a director who provided the Columbo movies with the right type of comedy . He directed a total of 4 Columbo movies , of which this one was the last . His Columbo movies are just a tad bit more entertaining to watch than the average usual Columbo entries . Funny thing in this movie is that Lt . Columbo has a new and much better looking raincoat , who he constantly keeps forgetting to take back with him after visiting a place . Of course in the end he gets his usual trademark raincoat back and voilà , he solves the murder . The movie its story is good and foremost entertaining . It doesn't make this one of the best written or most intelligent Columbo movies out there but the overall entertainment value of the movie compensates for this all . The movie also features some good interaction between the Peter Falk and Jack Cassidy characters . Besides those two , the movie also features Robert Loggia , before his days of fame . A real enjoyable Columbo entry .
Goal ! But not an hattrick . . .	" Bend It Like Beckham " is a movie that puts the ball in the net with several moments but also misses the post on others . Yet the good elements of the movie make up for the bad ones , which make this movie a good one and a pleasure to watch . I've always been charmed with Keira Knightley's looks but she never really quite charmed me with her acting abilities in the movies I've seen her in ( " Pirates of the Caribbean " , " Love Actually " ) . Yet she pleasantly surprised me in this movie and I think it's fair to say that this is her best role till date . The rest of the cast is also good but it really was Keira Knightley that impressed me . I will certainly watch her future career with great interestThe story is quite formulaic and gets predictable at times . The whole race / culture issue is handled better in movies like " East is East " . Still the story remains charming and sweet to watch , which is I think due to the acting , dialogs , humor and the easy atmosphere . It's funny , it's a sport movie but the worst scene's were in my opinion the football matches . The way it was edited was poorly , you couldn't understand what was happening on the field and all of the goals were so obviously staged that it was laughable at times . All of the football scene's were highly unbelievable and as a viewer you can never understand why Jess and Jules were regarded as big talents . Seriously , I've seen girls in real life doing way more amazing things with a ball ( no pun intended ) . Oh and I can assure you that no football team in the world has so many pretty girls on one team but that's hardly a complain of course , because it's always a pleasure to watch Keira Knigthley and a bunch of other girls in a dressing room but it's just that it didn't made the movie really more believable . But still " Bend It Like Beckham " is incredibly good to watch and kind of is a ' feel good movie ' . Just pure entertainment that also tries to give a message . It doesn't always work successfully and not all things are handled in the best way but it still is a good and charming movie .
A movie that handles its usual formula really well .	Of course every Columbo movie is a cat and mouse play between the Lieutenant and the killer but in this movie this is perhaps more the case than in any other Columbo movie . This is mostly due to Leonard Nimoy and Lt . Columbo gets on his back pretty early on during their first meeting already . There is some great interaction between those two . It's great also to see Columbo get angry for once . Leonard Nimoy is actually one scary looking dude and he has a great villainous look over him . Too bad he never really made a career as playing villains , I'm sure he would had been just perfect for it . He shows some great acting skills in this movie . Also Peter Falk is great once more as the scruffy Lieutenant , that also suffers from insomnia and is ill ( again ) this time . There is always something unusual going on with him . The movie features all of the usual Columbo ingredients and it handles them well , so therefor this movie can be regarded as a simply good and also definitely above average Columbo entry . Also the amount of relieving comedy is just enough to also regard this movie as an entertaining one , without loosing any of its credibility as a murder-mystery . The movie its story is using a fine setting of an hospital , that seems to really suit murder mysteries . It's like the story is really much special but its strong enough to keep you interested throughout . The killer himself is also definitely clever enough to provide the movie with some good clever moments . It's also all being told in a good quick pace , which makes the movie perfectly good to watch . It's one fine put together movie . It's definitely a step up from Hy Averback's previously directed Columbo movie " Columbo : Suitable for Framing " . Also makes it sort of too bad that Shirl Hendryx never delivered any more Columbo screenplays . As a matter of fact he hardly wrote anything again after this and it seems to me that it was more of a writer who wrote stage-plays instead . A great Columbo entry that follows the usual formula and does very little wrong doing so .
I really liked it !	Hard to say what it is that makes this movie a tad bit better than most of the Columbo movies . Most likely it's the presence of Donald Pleasence . He always has been a great and perhaps also a bit of an underrated actor , who is best known for the work he did in horror movies . But it also is the story and directing that makes this a good movie . Normally when Columbo shows up late into the story , the movie itself mostly isn't one among the best . Columbo in this movie shows up about 20 minutes into the movie . He also doesn't show up in the usual matter and we see him for the first time in his office at the police station , before he even starts to investigate the murder . And he and the killer don't first meet until well over 40 minutes into the movie . So it's a sort of Columbo movie that progresses in a non-formulaic way . I really like the storytelling and flow of the movie . For a Columbo movie it's rather long but this really doesn't matter since it's such a fine Columbo movie entry . You can also really thank director Leo Penn fr this , who also later directed the 1989 Columbo movie " Columbo : Columbo Goes to the Guillotine " . It's not necessarily a slow going Columbo movie but it certainly is an easy going one , that sort of is comparable to murder-mystery movies from the ' 40's in a way . It's not necessarily a well written , clever Columbo episode or one that offers many surprises but it's really that storytelling that makes the movie such a successful one . It also helps the movie that it uses some fine settings . The movie is for most part set in the winery-business , which seems to work really well for a murder-mystery . Peter Falk and Donald Pleasence are great in their roles and also especially when they are together on screen . Besides those two the movie features also some other fine actors such as Oscar-nominee Julie Harris . Amazing how many Oscar nominees and winners always were more than happy to appear in a Columbo movie . A real good and special Columbo entry !
Chess is a dangerous game indeed .	It's nice that the movie tries some new things for a change . For instance it introduces the Columbo character first into the movie before the murder has even occurred and he starts to investigate before they have even found a body . We don't even get to see how the crime unfolds fully at the beginning but there is a good reason for this as later becomes obvious . It also in a way is more or less a sequel to " Columbo : Étude in Black " , of one year earlier . Normally a Columbo movie doesn't refer back to anything that happened in previous Columbo movies but this one does , with Lt . Columbo , his dog and Dr . Benson . The movie also doesn't feature a lot of interaction between Lt . Columbo and his suspect , a formula normally used in a Columbo movie . This is an element that might disappoint some of the Columbo fans . At moments like this the Columbo character is normally at its best when he puts pressure on his suspect or tries to gain his trust by playing dumber than he of course obviously truly is . The Columbo character himself also looks ' cleaner ' than normal and is it me or is his trademark raincoat in a different color , or at least in some sequences it looks like it . Of course different doesn't also mean better but in this particular case I didn't mind some of these changes , since the movie obviously still worked out and can be regarded as one that is on par with most of the other Columbo movies and even slightly better than just the average ones . It's also thanks to the settings and acting that this movie worked out . As dull as it might sound but I like chess and movies featuring the game and world of chess always have a certain typical atmosphere over it , of certain high intellectuality and true gentlemen but at the same time , tension , suspicion and rivalry . Peter Falk is in good form again as Columbo and it's one of his better acting jobs as the shabby police detective . It also helps the movie that it features Laurence Harvey as the movie it's prime suspect . He is in great form , in one of his very last screen roles before his death in 1973 . It's a fine written and directed movie . The story isn't the most clever or ingenious ones , at least not when being compared to the best and most memorable Columbo movies but it's a story that doesn't bore and still provides plenty of surprises and entertainment , even though this movie doesn't feature as much comical relief as was the case in some other Columbo movies , which in my opinion is a positive thing . The movie features a good build up , to a fine ending . The directing is mostly formulaic and by the book but also features some good dream like sequences and other more different elements that are consistent with the ' 70's and less standard way of making movies . I like it as a sort of different Columbo movie .
A wonderful movie !	This movie was a great little surprise . It's a wonderful Dutch family movie with some good dramatic moments but it's also a movie that is entertaining to watch . The movie is perfectly made ! It perfectly mixes the dramatic moments with the sport and fun elements of the movie . The storytelling is truly excellent and reminded me of the better Scandinavian family movies . The portrayal of the normal everyday Dutch family is perfect , this is mainly thanks to the actors Thomas Acda and Wendy Van Dijk who both are very believable in their roles as parents . The story is told in a perfectly realistic way . The whole plot line in which the father returns as a ghost might sound lame but it works surprising well for the movie and its emotions . Nothing in the movie is ever over-dramatized and everything in the movie feels highly realistic . It makes most of the emotions and events in the movie really powerful because they feel very real and understandable . The story is really great . Even though nothing in the movie happens as a real surprise , it all is perfectly told . The story is about every 11-year old boy's dream ; becoming a football ( or soccer for you Americans ) player for the national team . The football scene's in the movie are all filmed in a beautiful way and really show the beauty , of the game that is football . There really are some unforgettable moments in the movie . One of those unforgettable moments is a match between some old deceased football legends versus the ' 58 crashed Manchester United squad . There is plenty to enjoy here in this movie for the football fans but still also people who aren't fans of the game will enjoy this movie . Even though this is a sports movie the emphasis of the movie is on the drama and is about realizing dreams . Everyone should be able to recognize himself in most of the events in the movie and should be able to relate to the characters . This all is both thanks to the way the story is told and because of the actors . Yannick van de Velde is a great young talent and Thomas Acda and Wendy Van Dijk are perfectly cast . Also most of the supporting actors are strong in their roles . This really is a wonderful family movie that is dramatic , realistic , beautiful and entertaining at the same time . Especially if you like Scandinavian movies this is a must see but also to everyone else this movie is highly recommendable .
Beautiful !	This movie was shear pleasure to watch . The movie looks visually absolutely stunning and the animation is done nicely . It's true eye-candy and entertaining as well . The movie has a typical adventurous story and feeling and is at times spectacular as well . Especially the beginning is impressively spectacular . There are some nicely done action sequences that are at times tense as well . My only true complaint of the movie are the characters . There isn't really any character development in the movie and we never really get to know the character or care much about them , this is probably mainly due to the short running time of the movie . Also of course the story itself is somewhat predictable but that doesn't take away any of the fun or entertainment value of the movie . Dinosaur fans will enjoy this movie as well , unless you're one of those persons who complains about the accuracy of the movie . This movie is entertainment , not a documentary . The musical score by James Newton Howard fits the movie like a glove and in my opinion he delivers one of his best and moving scores , in his career . There is much hate for this movie but quite frankly I can't see why . If you simply take the movie for what it is , you'll have a good time watching it . It's beautiful , adventurous and at times truly spectacular .
Dark but still very entertaining movie .	All of the Indiana Jones movie are very well known for their very high entertainment level . " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " is no exception despite the dark undertone of the movie . Granted , that after " Raiders of the Lost Ark " this movie might seem a little bit of a disappointment but that means in no way that this is a bad movie . Not at all . Still for some reason this movie is lacking the " Indy " feeling for me that both " Raiders " and " The Last Crusade " have . Maybe it is because of the absence of Denholm Elliot , John Rhys-Davies or maybe there isn't enough comedy , or maybe it is because of the fact that the movie mostly takes place at one place instead of over the entire world , or maybe it is because of the lack of a main villain , or the lack of stereotype Nazi's ? Who knows but fact is that out of the so far three made Indy movies this is the worst . Spielberg still knows to create some memorable scene's , out of the three Indy movies this one might very well have the most memorable scene's . The opening dancing number , the dinner scene , the ritual scene's , the mine car chase , the famous bridge ending . Still the movie isn't the most popular probably due to the dark undertone of it . Further more I have to add that it's a shame that some of the scene's are highly unrealistic even for an adventure movie . The cast is fine . Harrison Ford really seemed to feel comfortable in his Indiana Jones outfit . Ke Huy Quan plays surprising good , mostly his types of character are annoying but he pulls of very well and the way his almost father / son like relationship with Indiana Jones is portrayed is done very well in a typical Spielberg kind of way . Kate Capshaw might not be the best Indy girl but she still provides some comical relief at times . Another actor that deserves credit is Amrish Puri as Mola Ram who has become one of the most memorable villains in movie history probably due to his weird looking appearance . Despite its darkness still one of the most entertaining movies ever made .
Schwarzenegger + Verhoeven = Golden couple .	Forget Schwarzenegger in the Terminator trilogy , forget Schwarzenegger in " Predator " , forget Schwarzenegger in " True Lies " , this is the ultimate Schwarzenegger role . He really is at his best in this movie which is mainly thanks to Verhoeven's directing . The beginning has Verhoeven written all over it . It's gross and terribly shocking the first time you'll see it . The rest of the movie is also filled with Verhoeven's typical style of violence and gore . The scene in which Schwarzenegger's character uses a innocent civilian as a human shield who gets shot multiple times is the best example of the typical Verhoeven style in the movie . But like in all his movie's the violence never feels forced or overdone and is used in a brilliant way like only a man like Verhoeven can . Not only Schwarzenegger is casted well , so is the rest of the cast . Especially the villains are deliciously stereotypical . Michael Ironside is always at this best in roles like this and Ronny Cox basically plays his " RoboCop " villain role all over again but hey I'm not complaining about it . The music by Jerry Goldsmith ( his personal favorite ) is really good and one of his best works . The special effects are acceptable and the make-up is truly fantastic . Still for some reason its not really a movie that I enjoy watching multiple times . I don't know why , I can't really put my finger on it but I think it has to do with the typical 80's atmosphere of the movie ( even though the movie is from 1990 . ) . Even though the movie is fun it times , with some typical dark Verhoeven humor it isn't always a pleasant watch . Not Verhoeven's best but still a little science-fiction / action masterpiece .
Still one of the scariest Dracula versions out there .	It's the combination of the ' 70's - and dark horror atmosphere that makes this movie such an highly effective and great one . It's a real shame that this made for TV Dracula version , based on the Bram Stoker novel , is not any better known . The movie has an amazing dark atmosphere that adds to the tension and horror of the movie . This is a true genuinely scary horror movie and definitely amongst scariest of all the Dracula movies out there . The movie uses some great settings . Despite the fact that this is made for TV movie , it's not a cheap looking film . They did a real good job with this and its low budget can be seen nowhere back on screen . It's certainly true that the movie uses a bit too many zooms into the characters faces and all but that all was part of ' 70's film-making when film-makers experimented a lot with cinematography . Perhaps it was also an homage to the old days of horror cinema . Technically its a fine made movie by TV director and horror expert Dan Curtis . Too bad that the acting is also quite laughable at times . And no I'm not talking about Jack Palance as Dracula . I actually quite liked him in his role and I think he did a good job with his interpretation of the character . Too bad that he never played the famous count again after this movie , despite having several movie offers to do so . All the other actors in this movie aren't obviously amongst the most experienced or talented ones . I especially disliked the way Nigel Davenport portrayed the Dr . Van Helsing character . It's not like this movie version is adding anything new with its story to the Dracula movie legacy . As a matter of fact it's rather leaving out stuff then putting in some new elements . For instance there is no Renfield character in this movie or any mentioning of him . If you're familiar with the Dracula story or any of its movies you'll notice that this is a movie version that runs pretty much by the book with its story . A version truly worth seeing !
People seem to love this for the wrong reasons .	People purely seem to praise this movie for its comedy but if you start comparing the humor in this movie to other genre movies from the same period you must admit that this movie isn't among the best . However the movie does deserve all the praise for its sweet and great written story and its creativity , which is the reason why this movie is a ' 20's comedy must-see . This movie doesn't really distinct itself with its humor or timing but it does so through its solidly written comical story . I wasn't all taken by the movie its comedy . The timing and the slapstick elements aren't the best example of the particular time period and also most certainly so wasn't the directing , that was even below average in parts . There was lots of running and jumping but quite frankly it didn't all made really much sense at times . I prefer a Charlie Chaplin , Buster Keaton or Laurel & Hardy movie over this everyday . Thank goodness that in the end the movie still turns into a great and fun slapstick . Of course in between the movie also features some great , creative and fun moments . The story is just great and solid . Something that really wasn't common for ' 20's comedies . It's a sweet story that knows to create a balance between the silly humor and the romantic aspects of the movie . It are the romantic aspects that really makes this a sweet and irresistible movie to watch . I liked it , though for other reasons than its comedy .
One of my favorite comedies !	How to best describe this movie ? Like " Police Academy " set in the army . . . only than about a million times funnier . This movie shows once more what an incredible comical genius Bill Murray is . I can't imaging how this movie would had been without him . . . the answer probably is just plain bad . Murray is able to say the weirdest and silliest things with a serious face , I absolutely love it ! I also just love the way he's improvising in some scene's . Murray is helped by mainly three other great comical actors ; Harold Ramis , John Candy and Warren Oates . They are really the one's that carry this movie and make it a hilarious one ! As for the story itself , it isn't that good or appealing . The movie is beginning good and also the whole basic training is just hilarious and highly enjoyable to watch . But after that the movie maybe is taking itself a bit too serious and the story only distracts from Murray's antics . I also wouldn't had mind seeing Stella and Louise being cut out of the movie . Still none of that prevents this movie from being one of the most enjoyable one's ever made . It's not just constantly funny , it's also absolutely hilarious at times ! The Elmer Bernstein musical score is underrated and worth listening to , if it was more world widely available for sale . I have yet to meet a person who didn't like watching " Stripes " . It's an absolute comedy must-see !
Artistically a well made movie .	This is artistically a well made and good looking movie but due to its different techniques and approach being used , that's different from the western way of film-making , this movie is also a hard one to watch in parts . The first halve of the movie is mostly hard to follow . Basically all you see are people walking around and talking . It's often hard to fully understand what is going on and were the movie and its story is heading to . It however soon becomes obvious that this is a movie that is based on the well known Gaston Leroux novel ; The Phantom of the Opera . But no , you can't really regard this movie as a Chinese version of The Phantom of the Opera . It's more a reinterpretation of the novel and it picks some different angles with its story . This is a fairly unknown and rare early Chinese production and also very little about this film is actually known . It nevertheless is listed at many places as you movie you simply have to see and I can understand why , even though this movie is not completely a successful one really as a movie . Time has not always been kind to this movie and some of the movie its quality has been lost . The quality and used techniques of this movie makes the movie seem older than it in fact really is . I'm not only talking about the types of camera's being used by also the editing , camera positioning and overall directing style . Also the music and sound often doesn't sound right and seems out of place and as if it got added in a much later stage . movie got made in the ' 30's , it looks more like it had been made 20 years before that . Asian movies in general often look older than they really are due to its techniques . It's for instance also the reason why most Akira Kurosawa movies look as if they were made in the ' 30's , while in fact they were made in the ' 50's . Of course this has changed , since the world now is much smaller . The second halve of the movie is definitely the best when it mixes its ( romantic ) drama with horror elements . The movie and its story then soon starts to get truly powerful and the movie becomes an even bigger pleasure to watch . It was already a pleasure to watch this movie due to its visual look , even though time hadn't been kind on the overall quality of the movie . It using fine , almost at times expressionistic looking sets , which probably had more to do with the budget restrictions of the movie . The movie is artistically more interesting to watch than movie-wise really . It's acting is obviously over-the-top and also one of the reasons why this movie is more outdated looking and feeling than it's 1937 release date would suggest . The actors obviously weren't movie actors but who can blame them , since in the ' 30's China there of course really wasn't a movie industry . It also got made in the same year as the second Sino-Japanese war started between the Republic of China and the Empire of Japan , though there already had been some fighting going on between those two , years before the actual war started , so no big surprise really that this movie got made with limited resources and both cast & crew involved obviously didn't had much experience yet in the movie business , though director Weibang Ma-Xu on a very regular basis , had been making movies since 1926 on and continued to do so till his early death in 1961 . It's an interesting movie to watch .
Atmospheric Hammer zombie-flick .	It's really a shame Hammer didn't made more zombie movies after this one . Pre - " Night of the Living Dead " made zombie movie always had a fantastic stylish and creepy atmosphere . Examples of this are movies like " White Zombie " , " I Walked with a Zombie " and also most certainly this movie . It weren't movies with real scares in it but it more were movies with a well build up tension and a consistent mysterious and creepy atmosphere . After " Night of the Living Dead " zombie movies were never the same again . Had Hammer continued making zombie movies after this movie , perhaps the genre of stylish atmospheric zombie movies would still be around these days . This is a slowly told - and build up movie . It takes it time to set-up the right atmosphere and tension . It makes this movie a mysterious one , that was made with lots of style . Wonderfully directed by John Gilling all ! He never chooses to over-do things in this movie , even though he could had easily done this . The zombies are not portrayed as horror-characters but more as servants that obey their master . There aren't really many well known Hammer horror elements present in the movie or story , which will perhaps disappoint the hardened Hammer fan . It's a bit of a shame that there aren't really well known Hammer actors in this movie . The movie could had really done good with Peter Cushing and / or Christopher Lee in it . That doesn't of course mean that the actors in this movie aren't much good . André Morell is a fantastic actor and he played in classics like ; " The Hound of the Baskervilles " , " Ben-Hur " , " Barry Lyndon " and " The Bridge on the River Kwai " . He has a wonderful voice and accent . Also great was John Carson as the charismatic ' villain ' . This movie might perhaps bore some people , since it isn't fast paced and it doesn't feature any formulaic horror sequences but I still feel that everyone must be able to appreciate this movie its atmosphere and the mystery elements .
Good , late , typical Raoul Walsh movie .	Yeah , sure I missed Errol Flynn , but Gregory Peck is of course a more than great substitute . He plays a great and compelling character and I way only he could do . And just leave it up to director Raoul Walsh to make a good entertaining swashbuckler ! The movie has a great adventurous historic story , about life on the sea . It isn't constantly action but still the movie constantly maintains a pleasant atmosphere . But still the movie also has some good action moments in it as well . The sea battles are truly great ! But unfortunately the movie also feels the need to put in a love interest and love-story of course . The movie starts to go a bit downhill after the love-story kicks in , since it takes away lots of the pace and adventurous atmosphere of the movie . Luckily after that the movie soon starts to become fast and entertaining again . Because there are many different things happening in the movie , with changing characters and enemies , the movie feels much longer than its ' merely ' 117 minutes , which is a real positive thing to say in this case . No , this movie really ain't no swashbuckler like the used to make in the ' 30's but nevertheless the movie has different qualities and is great to watch on its own , mainly because it's such a well made movie . The directing is great and so is the overall pace . You can really tell director Raoul Walsh is really comfortable within the genre . The effects are also very good and convincing looking for its time . Only problem is that the movie too often makes sudden leaps in time . The time-line of the movie doesn't always feel sensible . The movie truly benefits from Gregory Peck's presence . He uplifts the movie and he fits the role surprisingly well . It's fun that the movie also features a still young Christopher Lee as well , in one of his first small movie roles . At least he can say that he once crossed swords with Gregory Peck . Most other actors in the movie aren't really much impressive , including Virginia Mayo ( who ? ) . All in all a great movie to watch !
When mobsters come to Hollywood .	I absolutely loved this movie when it first came out . It has an amazing cast , a pleasant light way of storytelling and a cleverly written story , featuring some great stereotypical gangster-type of characters . So , ever wondered what would happen if gangster interfered with producing Hollywood movies ? See " Get Shorty " if your curious about the result . It's an unusual original story about tough gangster put in an unnatural environment , who thinks that are making movies is the same as any other criminal activity . The movie is cleverly written with many different characters , that all follow one and the same plot line . All characters have different motivations but they are all cleverly connected to each other . The many characters often mix and meet each other in the events , which also causes all of their motivations to mix . The movie is really cleverly written and executed . It perhaps sounds like a complicated and hard movie to follow but it really is a light , great written and pleasant one to watch . The movie also works because of the many fine characters and of course the actors that portray them . Basically every character in the movie is deliciously stereotypical , from the Hollywood-producer to the stunt guy and from the successful acclaimed Hollywood actor to the mobster boss . The movie is well cast with actors that are obviously not cast because of their comical talents but purely because of their acting skills . The cast is one to kill for . John Travolta of course knows how to play a cool and likable gangster . Gene Hackman also plays one of his most fun roles as low-budget Hollywood producer , who thinks that he is going to make it big time . Danny DeVito is great as an Hollywood-actor and Dennis Farina , Delroy Lindo , Miguel Sandoval provide the good gangster parts of the movie . David Paymer also does what he can do best ; playing a guy with a hat . The movie is filled with many more well known actors in small roles , such as Bette Midler and James Gandolfini and even small cameo appearances such as Harvey Keitel makes . Also mainly due to the movie its professional cast , this is not an hilarious type of movie but more the sort of movie that has a constant pleasant and light atmosphere that will surely put a smile on your face . The comedy is more of the subtle kind , that everybody should be able to appreciate . Nothing in the movie ever feels forced , no matter how crazy and mixed up the movie and its situations ever get . As far as the ' 90's go ; this movie is about as cool as they could get . This movie was the definition of cool in the ' 90's , at the time of its release . Of course times have changed now but the movie still has an overall cool atmosphere and pleasant way of storytelling . It's a light fun movie to watch and re-watch over and over again .
One of the most entertaining movies of all time .	" Ghostbusters " is just one of those movies that you must have seen at least once in your life . Although I can't think of a person who hasn't already . Lot's of people grew up with this movie and lot's of people will remain to , cause it's a movie that just never will be outdated , the entertainment value is just too high for that to happen . I think the power of " Ghostbusters " are the main characters and the actors that portray them . Bill Murray is hilarious as always and Dan Aykroyd shows why he was one of the greatest comedians of the 80's . William Atherton was wonderful as ' villain ' and Rick Moranis does what he can do best ; play the nerdy loser . The cast is just simply perfect and I haven't even mentioned Sigourney Weaver , Harold Ramis , Annie Potts or Ernie Hudson yet . The music is also spot on perfect . No , I'm not just talking about the Ray Parker Jr . theme song but mainly about the Elmer Bernstein soundtrack which in my opinion is underrated . The movie is mainly just fun to watch and is highly entertaining and is filled with some wonderful and memorable moments . The early special effects look acceptable but by todays standards they look pretty fake at times . Lot's of people always praise the ending , not I however . I don't really like the ending , never did really . Sure the huge marshmallow man is just fantastic and highly original but the whole Gozer thing is just a bit underused maybe . I have the feeling that the movie's ending could have been done way more spectacular . For some reason it doesn't really blend in with the rest of the movie . Yet " Ghostbusters " remains one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen and is one of those movie's I have fond childhood memories of .
Well made but I wish it was more like " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " .	It's a well made and constructed movie that entertains and again perfectly blends several styles into one unique movieUnfortunately the movie is not as good as " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " . " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " was a way more entertaining because it was way more crazy mixture of style and because of that also very unpredictable and overwhelming . " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " spends more time on the story development and the emotional aspects of it . It perhaps makes " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " a better constructed and build up movie but I still prefer the more entertaining approach of " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " . In that regard " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " perhaps was a bit disappointing to watch but in this particular case that doesn't mean it was a bad movie . " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " mostly mixed Asian cinema styles , " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " mostly uses a Western style . Of course the story alone of taking revenge always has been a popular generic concept for Westerns . The movie also uses some of the genre camera techniques and editing tricks and even adds in some cheesy dialog when two characters are standing across each other , ready to kill . Quentin Tarantino obviously did his homework again but what can I say , Western just isn't my favorite genre . Its style also makes the movie slow at times , so please don't expect another over-the-top going , non-stop spectacular , visual , gory , action spectacle that " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " was . Of course " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " also still features lots - and over-the-top action but it just didn't impressed as much , due to the different style and approach . The movie features some great acting and dialog . Yes , this movie does feature some great typical Tarantino's dialog at times . Something I really missed in " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " . Also the movie as whole , in terms of its style and build up , is perhaps more ' Tarantino-like ' than " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " was . The story , again , is for part told non-linear and this time that style works out fully , unlike in " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " sometimes wasn't the case . David Carradine is really superb as Bill ! What a comeback for an actor ! The same goes for Daryl Hannah by the way , lets please not forget her . David Carradine really steals the show in the movie and at times he even puts the main character , played by Uma Thurman , in the shadow . Also Michael Madsen was great and so was Sid Haig in a small but amusing role . The Samuel L . Jackson was also one of the highlights of the movie . The movie is amazingly good looking and has a good visual style , also with the help of Robert Richardson's cinematography , obviously . Tarantino again successfully succeeds at mixing several styles of film-making into one unique great movie , with an own great one of a kind identity . Mission accomplished Mr . Tarantino ! There isn't as much blood spilled in this movie but yet the action does not disappoint . Like I said before , the emphasis of this movie is more put on its story and characters , rather than its action but still the action works out greatly in the movie . The movie features some highly memorable action sequences and also the ending does not disappoint . A really great and unique movie , that could had been more entertaining and perhaps also better , had it been made more in the style of " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " .
Adults will like this movie better than kids .	It could be just me but I thought that the humor in this movie was perfect . I laughed lot's of times throughout the movie and was very entertained by it . I however think that this movie will not be loved by young children , they simply will not be able to understand most of the jokes and the movie also lacks some ' likeable Disney type of characters ' for them . I never was really interested to go and watch this movie since it got lot's of bad reviews and I thought that the trailer looked horrible and very unfunny . I however decided to pick up this movie nevertheless because I was interested in how the famous voice cast would pull off , Martin Scorsese in particular . I was pleasantly surprised when I watched the movie . the humor was spot on and I was entertained the whole time . I know lot's of people probably are going to hate me for this but I thought this movie was even better and more entertaining than any of the two Shrek movies . The movie doesn't have a whole lot of story and is pretty average in every way . I however feel that this is one of this movies were the story really is secondary . The movie has your average love story , in which Angelina Jolie's character is really unnecessary and adds absolutely nothing , in my opinion but watching Robert De Niro's character scream and shout and giving orders to Martin Scorsese's character on the other hand was absolutely priceless . Will Smith was a great main character and just as entertaining as Eddie Murphy in an animated movie . I predict that the music in this movie will be absolutely hated in 20 years by now , just as much as I hate ' 80's music in movies now . No , I really didn't liked the songs in this movie mainly because in unlike the Shrek movies , they aren't any evergreens . If you plan to buy this movie for your kids , think twice , you're probably better of watching " Finding Nemo " with them . If you're a adult or young adult that likes animated movies , this movie might be worth your time and money , although the humor in this movie is really a matter of taste .
Suprinsingly great .	Most horror movies made between the ' 50's and ' 70's weren't very much psychological once and featured for instance monsters , gore and tons of blood . In that regard " Diary of a Madman " is a quite refreshing movie . It lies its emphasis on the psychological aspects of the movie and uses it for its tension , mystery and just overall horror , even though the movie still features a ' supernatural ' horror theme . The movie has a well build up and constructed story , that only gets better and better as it heads toward the ending . The movie begins quite typical but soon becomes very intriguing when it becomes obvious that just is not just another average standard ' 60's horror flick , with Vincent Price in the lead role . The movie shows how the highly respected magistrate / sculptor slowly looses his mind when he is being possessed by a strange mysterious spirit called an Horla . Of course no one believes him at first when he starts to hear and see things . He starts to question his own sanity , until the Horla has him in his almost complete control . Good old Vincent Price however decides to fight back and we already at the start sort of know what has happened , since the movie is told in the past time , when people read his diary in which he described the strange events that had happened . So you don't really have to expect an horror movie with monster , gore and scare effects . This movie is mostly about its build-up and overall atmosphere . It's a psychological movie , though visually the movie is also a good one . The movie features quite some early and variating special effects and other cinematic tricks . It's quite clumsy looking all of course but at least you can say that they really tried and put some effort in it to making something new . Vincent Price of course always had been at his best in roles such as these , so this movie forms no exception to that . He is highly convincing as the respected magistrate but also as the ' madman ' . Two of course total opposite elements , which Price perfectly knows to handle , without ever making anything look ridicules or totally unbelievable . It's a real surprisingly good and quite different ' 60's horror flick , that deserves to be seen and known better , starring genre-legend Vincent Price !
Me like Hulk !	Movie lovers will appreciate this movie far better than the lets say the average teenager . " Hulk " is very different than any other superhero movie from the last couple of years . The movie is not aimed for the average teenagers audience that liked movies like " X-Men " and " X2 " , " Hulk " has more drama than action and more substance than entertainment . I really like what Ang Lee made of this movie . He gave the characters some real depth and the story emotion . The use of the special effects are subtle and not made to impress the audience with but are really used as a tool to tell the story , unlike many other movies from the same superhero genre . All in all this movie might very well the best comic book adaptation so far , with a real good comic book atmosphere . The thing I liked most about this movie was the editing . I was really disappointed that this movie didn't even got an Oscar nomination for best editing . It might very well be the best I've seen in a movie and lots of wonderful editing tricks are used to give this movie an extra kind of comic book feeling . I didn't expected too much from Danny Elfman's musical score , particularly not after " Spider-Man " that in my opinion had a weak unfitting score . But I should had known better , after all this is that man that also brought us the famous " Batman " music . The score for " Hulk " really was excellent and is one I enjoy listening to . Nick Nolte really was a pleasure to watch in this movie but oh boy did he looked sick ( that was because he was constantly drunk on the set ) , he completely played Eric Bana of the screen at the end . This movie is recommendable to everyone as long as you are not expecting a superhero movie with lot's of action and special effects and a stereotype villain . I really hope " Hulk 2 " will be made some day , with Ang Lee at the helm again .
Fun nonsense .	What a stylish and fun movie this was ! The movie was different than what I expected . I expected a weird movie with a typical style similar to maybe a Tim Burton movie . The movie however had a very easy to watch style which makes this movie very accessible to watch for all people . The story is filled with some wonderful and comical situations and not so likely characters . The cast does a very good job although in my opinion George Clooney was at times overacting a little . Holly Hunter is always a pleasure to watch and I really loved her in this movie . Two fun small unforgettable parts are played John Goodman and Michael Badalucco . I also enjoyed seeing Wayne Duvall in this movie , I never really liked him as an actor in his role in " The District " but he really impressed me in this movie . A very fun and stylish , easy to watch , movie .
Great teenage comedy .	This is a sweet romantic teenage comedy that is better than you might expect it to be . It has an intelligent story with some great characters and a believable well constructed love-story . High-school and ex high-school students should be able to recognize a lot in the movie its story and characters . The movie delivers on several levels . As a comedy this movie is fun and certainly entertaining , mainly thanks to the well casted actors . Especially Timothy Olyphant is truly great and enjoyable in his ' villainish ' porn producer role . Also as a romantic movie , this movie is a really successful one . The love-story is good and mainly , also very original . Basically this movie is a pleasure to watch , from start to finish . The story has some great turns in twists in it and you never know what is going to happen next . It tries to avoid as many teenage movie cliché's as possible but still unfortunately falls in some traps at times . Still the movie is way better than most other teenage comedies currently being made and some that were made in the ' 80's , which was the golden age of teenage comedies . This is due to the well written story and characters and the actors that portray them . The movie is fun and at times also hilarious . It's a very entertaining movie to watch for all ages but mainly for teenagers of course who should be able to recognize some of the elements in this movie . The movie also has some great use of some great music .
Does not disappoint .	This was the first Wallace & Gromit short to be made after the big world wide theatrical release and success of the full length animated movie " Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit " . By now the entire world and - not just England anymore , knew who Wallace & Gromit were . This of course made expectations higher than usual and putted on pressure on Nick Park and the rest of the crew . " Wallace and Gromit in ' A Matter of Loaf and Death ' " however does what all other previous Wallace & Gromit shorts had also already done in the past and that is to bring some cracking and good looking simple entertainment . It's probably not as hilarious to watch as the previous Wallace & Gromit shorts but the movie is nevertheless entertaining and of course impressive as well to look at . The animations and possibilities have all advanced , which provides " Wallace and Gromit in ' A Matter of Loaf and Death ' " with some even more impressive looking sequences . The movie is probably less hilarious to watch because of its story . It's a quite sinister - and more of a thriller type of plot . All other Wallace & Gromit movies already sort of had this but this movie just a bit more than others . I must say that the movie even tends to drag a little at points but luckily the movie has more than enough redeeming qualities to qualify this movie as simple a great - and highly entertaining movie . Another triumph for the Aardman studios .
Good old fashioned fun !	As entertainment this movie is perfect . The movie is a fun adventurous one , with lots of spectacular moments and fights . From a technical point of view this movie is even a masterpiece . The stop-motion scene's created by special effects pioneer Ray Harryhausen is simply brilliant and makes this movie one of the most influential and important one's , when it comes to special effects . But also the movie uses clever camera tricks and some well made miniatures . Yes , of course the effects all look out dated now but they still surprisingly , look convincing enough and at times they are even still simply breathtaking and spectacular to look at . Especially of course the legendary , fantastic end fight against the skeleton warriors . The story is like good entertainment should be ; Adventurous , exciting and simple to follow . The movie truly is none stop fun entertainment to watch with lots of spectacular moments with the legendary skeleton fight as the ultimate highlight . You don't have to be a fan of ' classic ' movies in order to enjoy this movie , everyone should be able to appreciate this movie and be entertained by it , especially when you are a fan of ancient Greek tales . Something that is not praised enough of this movie is the musical score by Bernard Herrmann . The movie is not exactly filled with impressive and memorable actors . As many movies as I have seen in my life , I don't think I have ever seen any actors from this movie in any other movie , with the exception of course of Honor Blackman who will always be remembered for playing the Bond girl Pussy Galore in " Goldfinger " . But this movie clearly isn't a character-adventure movie , it's a special effect adventure movie . The special effects are really the most important element of the movie . So for the fans of special effects this is especially most definitely a must see . A movie that should be fun and enjoyable to everyone , of all ages .
Refreshingly original !	This movie is unusual and refreshingly original . It shows that animated movies can really be a form of art and a great medium to tell a story with . The movie is highly unusual in terms of style and story . The movie has a refreshing and original own visual style and a story that is quite ridicules but at the same time charming and intriguing . The character animation and the animation in general are magnificent and truly original . All of the character have an unique and odd over-the-top and stereotypical look . The characters are really what makes this movie so much fun to watch . The look of the movie is very refreshing and are totally different from any other animated movie . Especially to those who don't like or are accustomed to reading subtitles , don't let the French language scare you of . The movie doesn't have any spoken lines and in theory you can watch this movie with the sound of ( although you won't be able then to hear those catchy great tunes ) . The movie its visuals really tell the story on its own and it makes the unusual and odd story a treat to follow , also thanks to the charming suiting music and songs . But the story really isn't the most important element of the movie . It really are the visuals and characters that make this movie an unique viewing experience with some unforgettable characters and moments in it . I really enjoyed this movie and I'm truly looking forward to new Sylvain Chomet animated projects .
A fine short .	All inconsistencies and imperfections aside , this is simply a fine and enjoyable short from Boris Paval Conen . Basically it's very hard to create a perfect short movie . You never have enough time to develop your characters or to set up a proper story . This means that you need to rush things in order to tell what you want with your story and movie . This times goes at the expensive of the logic in the story , which is also certainly the case with this movie . The story basically isn't explained within the movie . Time stops when a boy almost gets hit by a big truck , except for one man who witnesses it all happening . Why this happens for this one man never gets explained within the story and how certainly also doesn't get explained . I see the movie as about one that shows that everything is happening for a reason , not sure if this also was the message which the writer / director of the movie tried to send out . It's a greatly shot and beautiful looking movie , despite not being set at the most beautiful location imaginable . It's obviously not just an ' amateur ' short but all those involved are professionals within their business . Director Boris Paval Conen previously made the TV-series " De 9 dagen van de gier " , set in Rotterdam , which also was a beautiful shot movie and made Rotterdam look like New York City . Seems like he is a man who knows how to handle a visual style and to tell a story . Unfortunately he works mostly on short movies and TV projects and he hasn't found his big break through yet . Or perhaps this is also his own choice and he wants to remain as much independent as possible as a film-maker and therefore sticks to short projects instead , in which he remains in total control of . It's only 10 minutes short and it's certainly worth your time . Also if your not into ' foreign ' movies or reading subtitles , don't be scared off , since this movie features zero dialog in it .
A spectacular piece of ' anti-German propaganda ' by Eisenstein .	The movie is based on a true battle fought between a Russian prince , Aleksandr Nevskiy against the German Teutonic knights . It's always interesting to watch a movie about a true historical battle , even when the movie itself is propaganda . For " Aleksandr Nevskiy " is truly a piece of Stalinist-propaganda , against the German enemy , shorty before the events of WW II . The enemy in this movie is made to look extra evil . They are all masked villains , who plunder and kill and even throw Innocent little children in the fire . While the Russians are being presented as a forgiving - and loyal to the motherland kind of people . It's obvious but yet it isn't really disturbing . It makes this movie a sort of a pleasant one to watch , with a simple story and black & white characters , that don't really required to be developed . You know who these persons are and were they stand . It seems pretty weird that the movie is named Aleksandr Nevskiy , while he in my opinion really doesn't form the central character of the movie . The movie is perhaps more Akira Kurosawa-style , with concentrating more on the ' smaller ' and ' less ' important characters , involved in the battle . The acting for 1938 standards is extremely old fashioned . Also none of the actors seem to really be any natural born talents . Also the production values aren't too high . The movie is good looking with its sets and costumes but is really lacking with its sound . Some of the sequences were even obviously recorded without sound , obviously for budget reasons . It makes the movie feel cheap at parts but it overall doesn't disturb from the overall movie . The cinematography on the other hand is superb , as is the suiting musical score that truly uplifts the movie at times , especially during the battle sequences . The entire movie can be perhaps seen as one big build up to the epic end battle on the ice . Yes , it really is this climatic end battle that makes this movie such a classic and a well known one . Always impressive to see hundreds of fully dressed and equipped persons charging toward each other . It always and still looks better than any other CGI battle . But what really makes the end battle so memorable and classic is the way it is brought to the screen , with camera-angles , editing and overall style that would later pretty much influence how other big battle sequences in future movies would be brought to the screen . That even goes for movies till this present day . It makes the battle a fantastic as well as an influential one . But it really isn't Sergei M . Eisenstein's best . Yes , there are a couple of moments of greatness and some nice symbolism but overall the movie is lacking in true creativity . A memorable movie nevertheless , that is definitely worth seeing and even still perfectly watchable by today's standards .
Such an enjoyable , sweet , innocent movie .	This is one irresistible great cheerful - and technically greatly made movie ! The movie features some of the greatest looking sets you'll ever see in a ' 30's movie , even though it's all too obvious that they are sets , rather than real place locations . Often if a character would fall or shake a doorpost too aggressive , the entire set would obviously move . The best moments of the movie were the silent , more old fashioned , slapstick kind of moments . It shows that René Clair's true heart was at silent movie-making . The overall humor is really great in this movie . Also of course the musical moments were more than great . This is a really enjoyable light and simple pleasant early French musical . Though the best moments are the silent moments , that does not mean that the movie is not filled with some great humorous dialog , that gets very well delivered by the main actors , who all seemed like stage actors to me , which in this case worked extremely well for the movie its overall style and pleasant no-worries atmosphere . No wonder this worked out so well , since this movie is actually based on stage play by Georges Berr . It's a technical really great movie , with also some great innovation camera-work in it and some really great editing , that create some fast going and pleasant to watch enjoyable sequences . There is never a dull moment in this movie ! René Clair was such a clever director , who knew how to build up and plan comical moments within in movies . It's a very creative made movie , that despite its simplicity still at all times feel as a totally original and cleverly constructed movie , that never seizes to entertain . The last half hour is especially unforgettably fun , without spoiling too much , and is really among the greatest , as well as most creative moments in early comedy film-making . The movie is filled with some really enjoyable characters , who are of course all very stereotypical and silly and were obviously cast because of their looks . It all adds to the pleasant light comical atmosphere and cuteness of the movie . One of the most pleasant movies you'll ever see !
Good as a realistic view on the mid - ' 90's life of kids .	The movie has a realistic , almost documentary like feeling , thanks to the way the movie is shot and acted . It provides a good and realistic view of the life of mid - ' 90's New York young teenagers . However the movie falls flat when it comes to shocking the audience . Some of all the things that are happening in this movie most probably happened to everyone once in their lifetime when they were a teenager , so everyone should be able to relate to some of the characters and events that are occurring in this movie , rather than be shocked by it . But the makers obviously tried to create more than just a realistic view on teenage life , it tried to shock the audience with its ' controversity ' but due to the documentary style of movie making and the story that is almost non-present , it just falls flat as a ' shocker ' . I would had preferred a movie with more story and consistency in it . It would had made the movie more interesting to watch and perhaps because of that it would had also worked better in terms of shocking the audience . Now the makers only try to be controversial without just having a real story . That simply didn't worked for me . Would this movie stop teenagers from having unprotected-sex , drinking alcohol and taking drugs ? I don't think so . . . The movie doesn't make a powerful enough impression and the ending is too abrupt and leaves an unsatisfying impression . It would had so much more interesting to see what actually truly happened to all those character after the party at the ending . The ending only leaves us guessing . Sure we mostly know what possibly happens afterward but why not show it in the movie ? Those could had been some really powerful and confronting scene's but it sadly now remains nothing more than a missed opportunity . Of course all of that doesn't automatically mean that this movie is a bad one . It still is good as a raw , honest and truthful portrayal of teenage-life . What makes " Kids " mostly a realistic movie is not only the documentary style of movie making , it's not only the ' acting ' , it are not only the events occurring in this movie but it is mostly the dialog that does this . This movie marks the debut for actresses Chloë Sevigny and Rosario Dawson who both were really excellent and believable in their roles . Both impressed me . The main character to be honest didn't exactly impressed me and to me it seemed an odd choice to cast Leo Fitzpatrick . He hasn't got the right look and talent for his role , so his character doesn't quite work and is not believable enough . In short , it works well as a view on the life of teenagers but when it comes to being powerful , controversial , making a statement and leaving a message it isn't good enough . I ' enjoyed ' watching this movie and thought it was really good but it simply failed at what it really tried to achieve . It didn't really mattered to me though and I could still recommend this movie to everyone . It's not a movie that makes you start thinking but it is a movie that you'll remember .
William K . L . Dickson greets the world for the very first time .	This is of course not the first film in history and presumably the Edison Manufacturing Company did dozens of test before actually shooting this and of course also shot " Monkeyshines , No . 1 " , 2 and 3 prior to this but it is the first film that was shown to a wide audience and press , at The National Federation of Women's Clubs , through a motion picture exhibition device the Kinetoscope , an invention of mostly William K . L . Dickson that let a strip of several images passing front of an illuminated lens behind a spinning wheel . Therefor this 3 second short plays an important part in movie history , as being the very first to be shown to an audience . The motions are perfect , though because of the shooting speed it all seems to occur in slow motion . There are no jerky movements and also the images is surprisingly clear . The film was shot with a Kinetograph , another William K . L . Dickson invention . He therefor is also credited as the inventor of the motion picture camera . The color white is shiny and the less dark colors of Dickson's clothing distinct itself well from the pitch black background used to film this . You can clearly see Dickson's face and also the more detailed look of his hair . Still I feel they could had done a bit more with the movement in this film . Show the audience some more of the possibilities of moving images . Instead now basically all Dickson does , is bring his hat from his one hand to the other , as a sort of wave toward the audience and he moves his head slightly , supposedly as a small nod toward the audience but that isn't all too clear to see . In a way this movie is a great metaphor for William K . L . Dickson and Thomas A . Edison literal greeting and welcoming us to the world of film . It perhaps provides the movie with just as much impact and significance , as it did 116 years ago .
Silly but fun of course .	This is simply a fine enjoyable movie , despite not making an awful lot of sense to me with its story . I wouldn't quite call this a screwball comedy , even though it is listed basically everywhere as one and the movie is basically one big heap of strange and unusual but funny circumstances . To be frank , the story and the way it progressed doesn't make much sense to me . Why on earth does Huxley keep seeing Susan , although he obviously doesn't like her too much and all she ever does is getting him in trouble . And why does he ever take all those things Susan says to him and asks of him . She's too wild and uncontrollable for him . Cary Grant began his career with movies like this but ended up getting later more serious roles , for which he now days is also still best known , though always with a certain comical undertone . Katharine Hepburn is exactly known for her comical talents but she pulls of more than alright in her role . She had a lot of training prior to starting and during the filming of this movie to get her comical timing right , which paid off obviously . The movie goes from the one strange situation into the other . This is basically all that " Bringing Up Baby " is all about . It doesn't exactly make this the best or most well written comedy but it obviously doesn't prevent the movie from being an enjoyable one . It's a movie that almost constantly entertains and the acting performances also make sure that the movie works out with what it tries to achieve , without ever getting tiresome or lame . It features some moments that will surely make you laugh . An enjoyable movie from director Howard Hawks .
A nice surprise . . . glad I've watched it !	With all the negative press this movie was receiving , I never was really much interested in watching this movie . Still for some reason I decided to give this movie a chance and I'm glad I did ! " Constantine " is spectacular and gorgeously visual looking . " Constantine " can be simply described as a mix of " The Exorcist " and " Blade " because well . . . John Constantine is a Blade like exorcist . For some reason this movie was poorly advertised . From the advertises and trailers I couldn't really tell what for a kind of character John Constantine was and what this movie was about , also since I never even had heard of the comic books this movie is based on . Had this movie been better advertised , I'm sure it would had attracted more people to see it . Maybe best thing about the movie are the special effects . They are truly most excellent , scary and gory at times . It makes this movie visual wonderful to look at . Also the atmosphere is better than expected . OK it ain't really a comic book kind of atmosphere but it's a good dark , almost horror like atmosphere . This movie works fine as an horror as well as an action movie . . . and as an anti-smoking campaign . The movie has more than a few spectacular and scary moments . The story is a bit too complicated at times . I don't think that the story itself is that complex but it's just the way it is told . Rookie director Francis Lawrence still has obviously some things to learn about movie-storytelling but nevertheless this is an impressive and most certainly entertaining debut movie from him . Keanu Reeves of course wouldn't had been my first choice as the hero but he pulls of alright . At least he isn't laughable unbelievable in his role or anything but he also ain't exactly cool enough . Rachel Weisz also pulls of alright but her performance certainly isn't worth all the praise she is receiving over here . In my opinion she really isn't believable as a cop . Can you just imaging her arresting a big tough criminal ? Really good were Djimon Hounsou ( finally in a ' normal ' role , I was getting sick of seeing him playing typical Africans like he did in for instance " Amistad " , " Gladiator " , " Stargate " and " Lara Croft Tomb Raider : The Cradle of Life " . ) and Peter Stormare as the greatly sarcastic Lucifer . Shia LaBeouf is also a good young actor with already an impressive CV . Surely a name we will hear a lot more about in the near future . Don't let all the negative press scare you off from watching this movie . " Constantine " is a gorgeously looking and entertaining horror / action movie .
Great movie celebrating the ' 60's .	Man , George Lucas must have really love the ' 60's ! This entire movie is an nostalgic trip and homage to the charismatic ' 60's . I mean , if you want to see how life of the American youth in the ' 60's was like , you should really watch this movie . The movie its story follows a group of friends that spend their last night together in town as high school graduations . After this all their lives will change and they will each head into different directions with their lives . For the last time they do want they want and simply enjoy their youth and the innocence of it . The movie has multiple story lines as it follows multiple individual characters during that one night . Every character experience something different and also learn some important life lessons in the progress . It makes the story well written and developed and all of the characters likable and interesting , although they are very stereotypical . It also of course helps the movie that they are being played by some great actors . The movie features lots of actors that at the time were still very young but now are very ' big ' . Ron Howard , Richard Dreyfuss and Charles Martin Smith but also Harrison Ford in a small but very cool and likable role . A kind of role you wouldn't expect of him now days . Also look out for Kathleen Quinlan and Joe Spano in some small roles . So real great casting in this one ! Every actor delivers a very realistic and likable performance . The movie features lots of stereotypical nostalgic ' 60's elements , such as drive-ins , cruising the strip , drag races etc . The movie is good looking with some nice looking cars and production design . It really helps to set the right mood for the time period the movie is set in . Also of course the very present musical-score consisting entirely out of memorable rock ' n ' roll hits of the era helps to give you a real ' 60's ' feeling , even if you weren't even born at that time ( such as myself by the way ) . The movie is a great mix of nostalgic ' 60's elements and ' coming of age ' story lines . It makes " American Graffiti " an unique and pleasant viewing experience .
Michael Mann does it again .	Despite some flaws , especially in the story , " Collateral " is a thrilling and suspenseful movie with a great style and atmosphere . Perhaps most surprising thing about the movie is Tom Cruise . He is great as a bad guy and almost unrecognizable . Tom Cruise is one of those actors that you'll always recognize in a movie as being just Tom Cruise . At times throughout this movie I forgot I was watching Tom Cruise , I was watching Vincent ! Jamie Foxx was also great , I was enthusiastic about this young actor ever since " Any Given Sunday " came out in 1999 . I'm sure he'll win his well deserved Oscar some day . Perhaps this year ? He is being nominated for both his role in this movie and for his leading role in " Ray " . Looks like 2005 will be Jamie Foxx's year . The character development in the movie is great . We slowly get to know the 2 main characters and see Foxx his character slowly transform . Leave it to Michael Mann to keep this movie interesting to watch the whole time , even the scene's in which nothing happens . The movie is more a thriller than an action movie but when the few action sequences come , it truly jumps of the screen . The movie also features some of the most realistic executions since the " Godfather " movies . If you can look past the flaws of the story , you'll find " Collateral " a true treat .
Good biopic but not really fully worthy of all the Oscars and nominations .	This is a good movie but really not worthy of all that Oscar nominations . It's not among the best of 2004 and also certainly not among the best biopics of all time . But you have to give credit where credit is due . " The Aviator " is a good movie about an interesting man and an even more interesting life . With every other normal other director at the helm , more people would had been satisfied with the end result but since this movie was directed by Martin Scorsese , people expected more . What a pressure this must be for him . In the end Scorsese doesn't really delivers and his movie is lacking in moments of true greatness . This movie proofs that Scorsese's best years are behind him and that he is lacking in true creativeness in his recent movies . " The Aviator " feels as a formulaic done movie that follows all the rules by the book . It's wonderfully done but also because of this the movie doesn't ever really become a remarkable or very memorable one . Even though the movie is almost 3 hours long , it never drags . Leave it up to Scorsese to make a long , consistent movie , that never loses focus . The story is told with lots of pace and flows well , perhaps even a bit too fast at times . Some sequences don't feel complete and leave an unsatisfying feeling . At times I wanted to know more about a certain event or character . This is unfortunately often the case with biopics . Movies like this , often tell the life of one single person . How is it possible to put everything that happened in a lifetime , in a just under three hours movie . Of course the pace has to be fast and certain events have to be cut down , in order to achieve everything with the story . Still I feel kind of cheated afterward by the story . While watching this movie it becomes obvious that Scorsese admires Howard Hughes . He glorifies him as a movie-maker and aviator . The movie mainly focuses on his best years and too often too little on the negative aspects of the character . The movie also ends when Hughes was at his prime , when he starts to fall back again , the movie ends . Even though we all know how Hughes eventually ended up , I'm still of opinion that the movie should had shown this , in AT LEAST a prologue before the end credits . The movie also leaves lots of things unclear , regarding the main character . It's never explained why he was the way he was and how he got so mentally ill . The movie made it seem that he could be normal when he wanted and had to . It makes the character a sort of an inconsistent one , that we never fully get to understand . Leonardo DiCaprio does well as Howard Hughes , the main character . He proofs that he is not only a great actor but also can handle big roles and can carry a movie . Other actors that were really great in this movie were Alec Baldwin and a surprising Alan Alda . The rest of the actors feel a little miss cast . They all seemed to have been cast because of their names . This goes for Ian Holm and Willem Dafoe who play some very uninteresting roles . And Cate Blanchett seemed to had been cast because she's Cate Blanchett , not because she looks like Katharine Hepburn and Kate Beckinsale seemed to had been cast because she's Kate Beckinsale , not because she looks like Ava Gardner . This also goes for actors such as ; Jude Law and Gwen Stefani . But sure on the other hand the movie is technically near perfect . It's well looking and has convincing looking sets and costumes and it manages to recreate the atmosphere mainly of the ' 20's and ' 30's . Also great was the cinematography by Robert Richardson but I did not particularly liked the color use , for which this movie received so much technical praise . The special effects were also a big letdown . Why don't I ever hear anyone complaining about this ? The flight sequences , which are some of the most significant moments in the movie , looked far from convincing . The movie is compelling enough to make you keep watching it till the end , since its basically in the end still a very well made one . The end result won't disappoint you but it will probably still leaves a sort of a bad aftertaste , considering that the movie is not entirely a satisfying one . I don't think that " The Aviator " will ever grow into becoming a classic Scorsese movie over the next years , such as with his previous movie " Taxi Driver " was the case . The movie is too formulaic made for that and it too often choices the simple path . It lacks true creativeness . Still of course the movie is a great one , that is well made and is far better than any other average biopic / drama . But worthy of all its Oscars and nominations ? Sorry , I really don't think so . It makes you wonder , would this movie even had been nominated for that many awards if it was directed by a different director ?
The movie is exactly what it promised to be .	This movie never promised to be the ultimate and definite historical movie about the Battle of Thermopylae . the movie instead promised to be a visual spectacle with big effects and spectacular action sequences . The movie promised to be simple entertainment and entertaining it was . It's like how entertainment should be ; simple and deliciously over-the-top . " 300 " is of course a movie that deliciously goes over-the-top with its images and overall style . The Frank Miller graphic novel gets translated very well to the big screen in terms of its style and atmosphere . The entire movie is greatly comic book looking , with its backgrounds , characters and action . Just like the other Frank Miller graphic novel turned movie " Sin City " , the entire movie was shot in a studio , with the use of blue - and green-screen , to give the movie an authentic , unusual but beautiful and spectacular looking visual style . Its style and characters make sure that you won't ever take this movie serious , unless you of course really believe that the Persian army used big over-sized misshapen , mutant looking creatures , Xerses really had such a deep voice and all of the battles happened in slow-motion . If you have a hard time coping with this comic book style and way of storytelling and interpretation of history , don't watch this movie and stick to historical books instead . But if you're simply interested in good quality action and entertainment , this is the perfect overblown blockbuster movie for you . The story is simple and its basically about the Spartans standing their ground , attack-wave after attack-wave . The story trows in some more plot lines , involving King Leonidas ' wife Queen Gorgo , who tries to convince the council to send more military support to save her husband , who knows he's going to meet a certain death . The diversity between those two main plot lines of attack and mostly talking and corruption work out well . Had the movie only been purely action it would had become tiresome after a while , I am sure . Also especially since the action is mostly of the same . Every attack-wave they encounter more dangerous , better skilled and often also more ugly looking enemies . Like a computer game , in which you advance one level-up , after you've beaten the enemy . But yes , it's also a missed opportunity that they didn't stick to the true story , since it's far more interesting and in my opinion also more heroic as the story portrayed in this movie . But it's of course also more complex and because of that also possibly less entertaining . I've always been greatly interested and fascinated by the story of the battle of Thermopylae , so I've wouldn't minded some more accuracy but I can understand and appreciate the approach of this movie and its story of the famous battle . Still sort of too bad that they decided to go with a voice over that tells what happens on screen and what the emotions and atmosphere was . The images themselves should be powerful and perfect enough to tell all of this . Everything in the movie is just basically very black & white and doesn't get complicated . Meaning that the good guys are all extremely good and they look like perfect creatures , with perfect biceps and white teeth and the villains are extremely evil and look like monsters , also complete with bad teeth . Definitely true that the best parts were already in the trailer but the movie still has plenty of visual surprises and spectacular action in it . The idea and sight of 300 Spartans facing an over a million man large Persian army is both impressive as spectacular . The best parts are definitely the action sequences , that show the bravery of the Spartans and their fighting skills and tactics , against the poorly organized and trained Persian army . The acting by the way was definitely better than expected . From a movie like this you just don't expect grand performances . Gerard Butler was great as the roaring and heroic King Leonidas and David Wenham and Vincent Regan play some good supporting roles . Of course the dialog isn't much special but this again perfectly suits the comic book style of film-making . I don't think that is a movie that will ever grow into becoming a classic and therefor I feel that it's also slightly exaggerated that the movie is actually in the IMDb top250 . Nevertheless it's a movie that shall always remain perfectly entertaining to watch .
Wonderful character movie .	Great acting , solid story and all beautifully told and combined . This is one fine character movie that makes a powerful impression . The movie is truly one fine character study . It slowly and perfectly tells the story of one man , who starts of as a fragile person who tries to make things work out for him . He tries to get a steady job , tries to get back to his wife and children and tries to get a loan to build up his own company with his best and perhaps only friend in life . He however is not very lucky in life and when everyone and everything seems to be turning against him , he slowly becomes more and more desperate and even maybe subtly descents into madness . He starts blaming his situation more and more on the bureaucracy and president Nixon in particular , which all makes him mentally an even more unstable person , which eventually leads him into doing a desperate act . The movie is build up to the fantastic climax that works very powerful and is unforgettable . The movie will leave you silent afterward and will perhaps even give you a feeling of sickness and depression . Leave it up to Sean Penn to portray a understandable , strong and believable character . I don't like him as a person but he surely is one of the best actors in the business at the moment . His performance in this movie is truly powerful and is the main reason why this movie works so incredibly well on almost every level . Other strong characters in the movie are portrayed by Naomi Watts , Don Cheadle and the surprisingly good Jack Thompson . This is a real character movie and every character in the movie is portrayed both subtle and wonderful . Niels Mueller is certainly a talented new director who knows how to build up a movie without falling into some obvious clichés and always remain both powerful and believable in the storytelling of the movie . A near masterpiece that works very powerful . Truly a must-see in my opinion .
Forrest Gump in the good old Wild West .	Forrest Gump in the good old Wild West , that's the best way to describe this movie in just a few words . The character of Jack Crabb sees and joins all the sides of the Wild West during this movie . As an Indian , a gunslinger , a drunk and as a scout for the cavalry under the command of General Custer during the battle at Little Big Horn . The story is told lightly with some relieving humor but also still with some successful dramatic moments . I'm probably not the biggest fan of the Western genre , around but I found this movie to be enjoyable and entertaining . The story perhaps consists out of too many coincidences to really find it believable but at least it makes the movie light and entertaining to watch . The movie is perhaps a bit of an underrated and certainly forgotten movie that deserves recognition and to be seen by all . Dustin Hoffman plays a good and likable main characters that truly carries the entire movie . Some smaller roles are for Faye Dunaway and a truly great acting Chief Dan George , who also got an Oscar nomination for his role in this . Most likely the fans of the Western genre will like this movie the best but to everyone else , this movie is also an entertaining one to watch .
It's widely regarded as the ultimate romantic movie for a good reason .	To be honest I was quite surprised as the low rating the movie gets her , since I've always been under the assumption that this movie is widely regarded to be the best and ultimate romantic movie ever made . The movie has all the ingredients a romantic movie needs , even the most formulaic ones . Two totally different boy and girl from different social levels fall in love with each other and of course not everyone in the environment ( mainly the parents of course ) are happy with this . Their love life has a couple of ups and downs in which they have to weight some choices for themselves against choices for their love together . Further more the movie also features an unavoidable dramatic twist in which one of the characters get seriously sick ( Don't worry , this is not really a spoiler since this is mentioned right in the beginning of the movie already ) . In other words this movie has all of the formulaic sappy sounding ingredients to make this a sappy formulaic romantic movie . Yet " Love Story " is not . Why ? It's hard to put your finger on why " Love Story " is so much more and so much better than your average love story but I guess that you can still answer this question , once you start analyzing the movie . Although the story and all of its elements are sappy and formulaic the movie itself doesn't try to be sappy or dramatic . The movie doesn't attempt to make you cry , by putting in over-the-top dramatic filmed moments with dramatic loud music and all that sort of stuff . Instead the movie chooses to take a realistic approach , no real surprise , considering that this is a ' 70's movie . The decade in which the most realistic ( and best ) movies were made . It has as a result that the movie never feels forced or overdone . It even makes the most formulaic and predictable elements of the movie work out , as strange and unbelievable as it might sound . You also have to keep in mind that at the time it was released , this movie was not formulaic at all . It was a fresh approach on the genre and inspired many later movies . In a way " Love Story " was bare raising and set the standards for many later romantic movies . The movie was nominated for 7 Oscar ( of which it won 1 in the end ) not just for no reason . The movie is obviously made on a low budget but it makes the end result look all the more creative . It's effectively directed by Arthur Hiller , who later went on directing lame comedies . A real waste of talent . The musical score by Francis Lai is a classic and the simple effective cinematography from Richard C . Kratina makes the movie feel all the more realistic . The movie made Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal big stars for the moment and they were both even nominated for an Oscar . To be frank I didn't even always liked their characters in the movie and I've never been to fond of Ryan O'Neal as an actor . In that regard I liked the supporting cast way better with John Marley , Ray Milland and Tommy Lee Jones in his very first ( and very small ) screen appearance . He looked so amazingly young , that he was hard to recognize . Although the movie takes some formulaic and obvious dramatic turns , the movie still always remain perfectly watchable , just not always emotionally involving enough . So I'm not to sure about it if this is a movie that can ( still ) make people cry . Nevertheless the movie still has its powerful moments , mostly due to the realism of it all . Everybody should be able to recognize the situations - and put themselves in the place of the characters of the movie . Everybody have been through similar events in their life at one point , in one way or another . Now days lots of people actually complain about the tag-line and famous quote from the movie ; ' Love means never having to say you're sorry ' . People find this a stupid and illogical line . To those people I would like to say ; Wait until you've truly falling in love once . If you've REALLY been in love , you'll understand what is the meaning of that line . Love is about mutual respect and also accepting each others less pleasantries and still love each other for it . This also means never having to apologies to each other . Actually when I was in love once and the girl felt the same way about me ( Yes amazing , I know . It seems like ages ago now ) , whenever one of us said ' sorry ' for something the other always said ; ' You never have to apologize for anything to me ' . None of us had ever seen the movie or heard of its famous line before , so I think that really says something about the line and the truth that is in it . It in my opinion certainly is one the best and perhaps most influential romantic movie ever made . A must-see that deserves more objective respect and higher rating on here .
A great and powerful movie .	I never have been a too big fan of movies based on John Grisham novels , since they are quite boring within its genre but I've always liked this movie , though in all honesty the movie really starts loosing some of its power on repeated viewing . The movie has a real inspiring and powerful story . focusing on moral dilemmas , racial issues and the legal system , when a black man shoots and kills two racist white men who had just raped and attempted to kills his 10-year old daughter . It makes this also a real original movie to watch within its genre ; the courtroom-drama . The movie mixes its 3 main themes ; racial issues , moral dilemmas and the legal system , really well and effectively . It might sound like a messy movie and as a movie that is trying to preach but it in fact is a really well constructed and balanced movie , that is skillfully being directed by Joel Schumacher , as weird as that might sound , considering that he mostly makes some really below par movies . Even his best movies are mostly lacking in more than one way . This movie can perhaps be regarded as his least lacking and simply best movie . Fair is fair , he simply did a good job with this movie . When I first saw this movie it made quite an impression on me , due to its great story about justice . The movie angered me , the movie moved me and it simply grabbed me all throughout . The movie makes its point and is showing the less pretty side of the legal system and the treatment of Afro-American people within it and the treatment of those people in the south of America in general . Samuel L . Jackon has picked several roles like this throughout his career ; a black man against society and the system . He seems like a person to me who is always making a big point out of racial issues and the treatment and acceptance of Afro-Americans in America in particular . In all honesty , it often more annoys me than that I find it something admirable and it just doesn't always work out that well and effectively within a movie . This particular movie forms an exception to this though and like I said before it's a movie that makes its point well , by often exaggerating and generalizing things of course but it nevertheless comes across well and powerful . Yes , some things come across as being quite over-the-top and not exactly as anything too believable and I do feel that the movie is overdoing it a bit at times but the movie is just never going too far with it and it knows to maintain a good balance between the strong realistic aspects and the more ' Hollywood ' like aspects and themes of the movie . You also really have to give movie credit for its cast . You have to remember that this movie got made back in 1996 , when very few people had an idea who actors such as Matthew McConaughey , Kevin Spacey , Chris Cooper and Kiefer Sutherland all were . Besides that , the movie also features some already well established names such as Samuel L . Jackson , Oliver Platt , Donald Sutherland and Patrick McGoohan in one of his last big movie roles . I say last , not because he's death , he's very much alive still but he rarely stars in any movies , pretty much like he has done throughout his entire career . Seems like he is just more an actor who enjoys working on the stage . Simply a great and effective movie within its genre , although it's already starting to loose some of its power , 12 years later . So it will most likely not become a classic in 30 years from now .
A great example of how a Laurel & Hardy short should be .	This is a very typical Laurel & Hardy short . It's filled with some typical and very well executed slapstick humor . This is a great example of how a Laurel & Hardy movie should be . It's no secret that Laurel & Hardy made their best picture together in the early ' 30's . This movie is definitely one of their greatest and most enjoyable ones . The first halve of the movie is mostly filled with slapstick comedy . It's most definitely the best part of the movie . The comical slapstick moments are typical and amazingly funny , mostly due to the fact how well executed and timed they are . The second halve of the movie drags on for a bit too long and doesn't rely anymore so much on its slapstick and visual humor . If only the movie would had been about 10 minutes shorter , how great than it would had been . Not saying that it isn't great or enjoyable enough now but yet the movie had more potential of becoming truly one of the greatest or most memorable Laurel & Hardy shorts . Their mishaps with Laughing Gravy the dog are funny and provide the movie with its best moments . Also good are the comical moments with the landlord played by Laurel & Hardy regular Charlie Hall , who of course doesn't like the boys having living a dog around in his house . Still it makes me wonder why they didn't gave James Finlayson the part and why didn't Arthur Houseman played the drunk in this one ? I missed the both of them in this movie and I had the feeling that the movie would had been even a more fun one with them . A near perfect slapstick comedy , that more or less falls short of greatness in its second halve , which prevent this movie from being the best or most memorable Laurel & Hardy comedy short but nevertheless it's one of their most fun and typical comedy shorts around .
The best anti-drug movie ever made .	This is a totally honest film . It does not try to shock or be confronting . It instead tries to provide us the viewer , an honest and realistic view into the average life of the average Scottish heroin-addict ( s ) . It's all done in an unique and entertaining way and the movie is made with lots of style and humor . It doesn't make " Trainspotting " a terribly heavy movie to watch but more of a realistic , non-forced entertaining one . Perhaps the greatest thing about the movie are its characters . All of them are unique and fun in their very own way . This was Ewan McGregor breakthrough role and he perhaps plays his very best role out of his career . He is very powerful and credible in his role . A great main - and interesting character . Robert Carlyle plays a sort of Scottish version of Joe Pesci in this movie . He has some ultra-violent outbursts at times but for the rest of the movie he at the very same time is a lovable and hilarious character , that often works as a much needed comic-relief . Other fine roles are being portrayed by Jonny Lee Miller , Kelly Macdonald and Ewen Bremner . The movie does not only concentrates on what happens when you're a drug-addict but also what happens after you got clean . I love it that the movie also shows its honest and objective perspective , on this realistic story-elements . Nothing that happens in the movie feel forced or predictable and therefor everything that happens in the movie works out great and convincing . But honestly the movie is more entertainment than anything else really . The pace is high , the characters are silly and some of the situations and dialog are often hilarious . " Trainspotting " might seem like heavy stuff on first sight and even though it does have its serious and heavier moments , it remains mostly an entertaining movie to watch throughout its entire running time but yet at the same time , the serious anti-drug message comes through and works fine . Definitely a recommendable movie .
Sort of amusing and cute .	Shortly after the early Kinetoscope experiment " Leonard-Cushing Fight " , featuring the two boxers Jack Cushing and Mike Leonard in a boxing match , this movie got made at the Thomas Edison's Black Maria Studios , featuring two cats , fully equipped with boxing gloves , having a go at each other . So perhaps with some imagination you can call this movie the first ever made spoof and it certainly is the first ever done comical subject at the Thomas Edison's Black Maria Studios . The subject of Professor Welton ( exactly what was he a professor in I wonder ? ) Vaudeville's act of two boxing cats is sort of amusing and cute . No doubt that animal right organizations now days would do anything to ban this movie from being shown was it made today but truth is that this is a pretty harmless act . The gloves take away a lot of the blow , so no cats got harmed during the making of this motion picture and actually seeing cats fight on the streets with their claws is of course something far more violent and violent looking , even though it's just nature , unlike obviously putting gloves on a couple of cats and let them fight in a small boxing ring . Henry Welton himself ( the professor from this movie its title ) sets the cats up against each other and he can be seen picking them up toward each other . These two cats obviously had no grudge toward each other but were put up to it to fight . Perhaps not the most kind thing to do but you also have to remember that this was 1894 when these sort of animal vaudeville acts were very common and part of everyday's life . The camera is pretty close up to the fight but it covers the entire fighting area . It's not entirely symmetric , since it only shows one side of the ring . Nevertheless it's an effective composition , since it shows everything that needs to be seen and apart from its shaking images , it's perfect . The same can be said about the quality of the movie . Hardly any grain here in this one . A nice little comical turn from the boys at the Edison Manufacturing Company .
One of the better thrillers of the last couple of years .	Somehow I have the feeling that his movie is an underrated one . It's a not much talked about movie , that certainly deserves to be talked about . It has got a great compelling story and it is professionally directed by Christopher Nolan and acted by the fine cast . The movie starts of as a rather basic thriller but as the movie progresses it takes some nice turns . The story remains compelling throughout its entire running time for several reasons ; the cast , the settings and the nice twists in the story . The movie its story is very well constructed . It works well as a murder-mystery / detective movie but luckily the story is so much more than this , thanks to some original twists in the story . The movie really starts to get good and interesting from the moment when the detective and the perpetrator are somehow forced to help each other to conceal both their crimes and form an unholy alliance but without ever fully thrusting each other . It makes the movie mostly unpredictable and provides the movie with some nice twists and tense moments . With Al Pacino in the lead , you just can't go wrong . He plays his character with eye for detail and in a sympathizing and honest way . He plays his part interesting , as well as realistic . This way we can always feel and cheer for the main character , even though some of his actions are far from being morally the right . Plus he looks like a very convincing insomniac as well . Also really excellent was Robin Williams in the role of the murderer . In " One Hour Photo " he already showed how well he can handle a non-comedy role but his role in this movie is perhaps even better , since the character itself is probably a more realistic every day person . Other fine actors such as Hilary Swank and Maura Tierney are also present but their roles aren't very challenging . Three Oscar winning actors together in one movie ! The settings also work really well for the movie . At first sight , Alaska would seem like an unlikely cold and boring place to set a movie in . The nature however looks beautiful and certainly as well adds to the movie its atmosphere . Of course also the beautiful cinematography and subtle directing adds to this . From start to finish a great compelling thriller from talented director Christopher Nolan , with some superb acting in it .
Shows that Roger Corman can also do good movies .	It's amazing that he man who has made so much crap movies in his career , in which giant crabs , enormous leeches and other unlikely monsters are threatening the Earth , can also make good movies as well . Roger Corman is sort of the uncrowned king of B-movies but this movie is simply above that . It's the second out of six movies he did based on an Edgar Allan Poe story . Ironicaly those are perhaps also the six best movies that he ever did in his still going on long career of directing and producing movies . Most of his Edgar Allan Poe based movie he made also starred Vincent Price as the movie's main lead . The movie perhaps more looks and feels like an Hammer studio movie but it in fact isn't one . Good to see that not only the Hammer studios had a sole monopoly on horror film-making in the ' 50's , ' 60's and ' 70's . This movie uses the same sort of atmosphere , character treatments and story-telling , completely with the same sort of ( fake ) looking sets and locations . The movie obviously benefits from the presence of Vincent Price , who plays the mysterious main lead of the movie . Vincent Price was a true Shakespearean like actor , who just happened to like playing in horror . He and others such as Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee truly uplifted the genre at its time and gave the world many enjoyable and great horror flicks . Price starred in many different movies based on Edgar Allan Poe stories and poems . Like usual for these type of movies , all of the other actors in the movie aren't much good and are some big unknowns that never really made it in the business . It's truly an atmospheric movie . The movie its horror spawns from the movie its mysterious and eerie atmosphere . It also features some great stylish done flashback sequences , which adds to the overall horror atmosphere of the movie . The movie further more features some truly memorable horror moments . It's a movie that definitely gets better toward its end . The movie has some great atmospheric music , which really suits the genre . The score is composed by Les Baxter , who spend most of his career working for these such movies , which also explains why he never broke through to the general audience . Wonderful and effective Corman / Price Edgar Allan Poe movie within its genre .
Pretty nice thriller for its time .	I wouldn't exactly label this movie as a film-noir but it's a pretty good ' 40's thriller , that has a nice concept , which of course gets handled magnificently by the master of suspense ; Alfred Hitchcock . It's not his best and also certainly not his most memorable movie but this says something more about the quality of the other movies he has done than about this movie really . Like basically every ' 40's movie it begins rather slow and it takes its time to set up its story and characters . However about halve way through , when things really start to take off , it becomes a great movie to watch . For ' 40's standards it's quite an unique little thriller . It knows to build up its tension with a minimum amount of resources . It has a nice story about average people . This is one of the reasons why the thriller elements work out so effectively . The movie isn't set at any strange places , with stereotypical characters . The places , situations and characters are all easy to identify with . The main concept itself is pretty simple but somethings this is all you need for a movie to become a good one . Its screenplay got even nominated for an Oscar . It's a nice shot movie , with some wonderful looking and constructed sequences , once you start paying attention to it . This is were Alfred Hitchcock was great in ; creating some solid , unique , great looking sequences , with its original camera-work , in which he could capture a lot of things and emotions and setting the right mood with for the movie . It also features some nice acting . What I like is that the characters are changing throughout the movie . It gives the movie some nice tension since it provides the movie with a certain feeling of insecurity and uncertainty . Especially Joseph Cotten did a great job with this but Teresa Wright is also a nice leading lady . Nice little minimalistic thriller , made great by its concept and of course wonderful and effective directing from Alfred Hitchcock .
Well constructed movie .	" Ringu " is a good and original movie . The story is really good and creepy . The storytelling of the movie is even better , which makes this movie not just a good horror movie but also a good character movie . The movie doesn't really has ' scare ' moments and perhaps because of this it has some missed opportunities in it but instead the movie has a creepy feeling and atmosphere throughout the movie , which compensates for this . Also the mysterious story adds to the tension and atmosphere of the movie . The acting isn't exactly mind blowing but it never really becomes disturbingly bad . It's too bad that the movie has some cheap looking effects , with a bigger budget this movie could had really become an even better one . And then the eternal question which movie is the better one ; " Ringu " or " The Ring " . The answer is quite easy , whatever movie you've seen first will be your favorite . Both movies have their own charm and different good things and less successful elements . From a movie technical point of view " The Ring " is however a better movie . It has an overall better look and has way better special effects and make-up .
Awesome Bond !	" A View to a Kill " is one of the better and cooler Bonds . From the most excellent theme song by Duran Duran till the big finale on the golden gate bridge the movie is entertaining and thrilling in a good quick pace . What makes " A View to a Kill " one of the better Bonds to me is that it has Christopher Walken in it as the main villain . He plays an excellent psychopath , a bit over the top maybe but very entertaining nevertheless . One of the better Bond villain . The rest of the cast is also good and it's hard to believe that Roger Moore was already in his late 50's while making this movie . Grace Jones portrays the legendary character May Day which also is a big addition to the movie . Another wonderful addition to the cast is Patrick Macnee . Like in all Bond movies the story is actually quite silly and unbelievable . But then again Bond movies are not known for their realism , their are known for their very high entertainment value and entertaining this movie is . The movie is full with great moments , maybe even more then all the other Bond movies . One of the better moments is the escape from the burning building , it's great not as much visually but more musically . And the golden gate bridge finale is maybe one of the best Bond endings . Very spectacularA must see for the Bond fan .
Excellent ! One of the best Dutch movies .	This movie is possibly my favorite Dutch movie ever . The movie can be described as a mix between " Se7en " and " Jaws " . It is scary , thrilling and funny at the right points . The atmosphere is simply brilliant but the action is even better . It has a speed boat chase in it were James Bond himself would be jealous of ! The story is set in Amsterdam . A diver in the canals is killing citizens randomly and the police is send to investigate this horrible murders . The acting is for Dutch standards great with the exception of Tatum Dagelet and Edwin Bakker who are just plain horrible , but who can blame them they were only kids at the time . Especially Serge-Henri Valcke steals the show with his great acting skills . HUGE SPOILERHowever the ending ruins a lot . In the end it turns out to be that the villain is a character that we have had never seen or heard about before in the movie and is some kind of freak that had a accident with chemicals . Weird plot twist if you ask me ! HUGE SPOILERYou can call this movie a " Hollywood " Action / Thriller with some great Dutch humor in it . This movie can really bring you to the edge of your seat . I highly recommend this movie !
Anime + vampires = Great combination !	The combination of the horror type of film-making and anime is one that works out surprisingly great and effective in this movie . It has a great dark and horror type of atmosphere and genre story . You can also expect lots of violence and gore from the movie . Yes , I really think that horror-fans will also enjoy watching this movie , even if they aren't familiar with the Japanese anime genre . The characters are all fantastic looking ! Of course especially the mysterious looking D . Some characters are cool looking , others odd and some of them downward scary ! It are not just only vampires in this movie ! The main character D is a great one . Lets say he's a sort of combination between Blade and Abraham Van Helsing . It would definitely be great to see more movies involving this character . He's mysterious , he's cool and he has got some real fighting skills . The movie is fast paced and features lots of action in it . The action is always something original and different , so the movie at all times remains entertaining as well as exciting . Of course the movie shows some oddness but that's also all part of the charm of an anime movie . The animations are looking as you would expect from a movie such as this . It's no better or any worse than similar type of movies . It's a very imaginative looking movie , set in a dark mysterious place , in a sort of post-apocalypse far future . Well worth seeing for both anime fans , as well as horror lovers .
Excellent Dracula version . . .	Excellent Dracula version the unfortunately hasn't stand the test of time . The pace is a bit too slow for my taste and there just doesn't happen enough . The sets are also outdated and don't look very convincing . However the excellent cast compensates allot . Peter Cushing and Christopher Lee are simply perfect in their roles , even though Christopher Lee's role as Dracula is smaller then you'd expect . Especially the scene's with Christoper Lee alone are a feast to watch and hear . The story has very few surprises for those who are already familiar with the Dracula story but the movie still has some nice and suspenseful moments . So mainly because of the cast , a very good Dracula version that is worth seeing !
A movie made great and unforgettable by its moments .	" Marathon Man " is among the most well known thrillers from the ' 70's and it's also definitely among the finest of its period . A period of many fine and classic genre movies , of which this movie knows to skillful distinct itself , with some classic moments . Let's face it , " Marathon Man " shall not be remembered for its story or any such thing . In that regard " Marathon Man " is nothing more than an average simple genre movie . It really are some of the moments in the movie that makes this such a great , classic and unforgettable one . Of course the dentist scene is the best known one out of this movie but in my opinion basically every sequence in this movie with Laurence Olivier in it is a classic one in my opinion . Such as also the sequence when he gets recognized on the streets of New York by some ex prisoners of a camp he operated in . But nevertheless , yes , it's definitely the dentist scene , that made many people afraid of dentists in real life , that forms the highlight of the movie . The sequences also perfectly embodies how the entire movie is ; atmospheric , mysterious , slow , tense and gritty . The sequence is so great because you don't understand what is going on or what the person wants . It makes the torture techniques seem even more cruel and painful to watch . Not just its moments but also the actors definitely uplift the movie . The movie has Laurence Olivier in his most villainous roles . It's a character that is genuinely scary and he is obviously based on Nazi doctor Josef Mengele . It's typically a role in which less is more . The character doesn't speak much or moves subtly around but his facial expressions always say more than enough and really all credit for this has to go to Laurence Olivier for that . But it doesn't make you forget that there are more great actors in this movie such as of course Dustin Hoffman in the main lead and Roy Scheider , one of the biggest stars of the ' 70's . It's also one of Hoffman's best known roles and for a good reason . His method actor works out great in the movie and for its story , character and overall atmosphere . What I like about the character is that he really isn't an hero but just an average guy and even a bit of loser that by change gets mixed up into this big dangerous situation . The movie shows us that it could happen to basically everyone of us . It also makes us easy for yourself to identify with the main character of the movie , which in return adds all the more to the suspense and realism of the movie . The entire movie is build up in a consistent speed and style . The movie does never accelerate , which also helps to give the movie its realistic and gritty look and atmosphere . Despite not being anything special when it comes down to its technical things , it nevertheless is a movie that is skilfully made with the right tools and persons for this type of movie . Yet another essential ' 70's viewing .
Always has been a favorite of mine .	Don't really know why but out of all Columbo movies this is the one that always sticked most into my mind . I think this is mostly due to Patrick McGoohan's presence , who only a few years prior to this movie impressed with his role in " Braveheart " ( how did he not won an Oscar for that ? ) . Like many Columbo movies before , this one got also directed by Patrick McGoohan , who also once again plays the killer of the movie . Most of the McGoohan Columbo movies are some really classy made ones , that are well directed and also better than the average Columbo movie entries . You can say that a McGoohan Columbo movie is always something special , even though not all are quite as good , such as for instance the failure " Columbo : Last Salute to the Commodore " . It wasn't the last movie McGoohan would direct for the Columbo series but it was the last Columbo movie he played in . As a matter of fact this also as of yet is the last movie McGoohan has appeared in . He did some voice-work after this movie but he psychically hasn't appeared in a movie ever since . He's still alive and kicking though , so he might once pop up in a movie again , though I assume that he is enjoying his retirement . He always had some good interaction with Peter Falk within the Columbo movies , probably also due to the fact that they have been close friends for years . Peter Falk also must have felt at ease with McGoohan behind the cameras , who in return also gave Falk lots of room to play around . This really shows within this movie . Besides Peter Falk and Patrick McGoohan , the movie also features the great Rue McClanahan , as the movie its victim . She plays a very typical role , which has become sort of her trademark , ever since her " The Golden Girls " role . It also features some other fine actors in supporting roles , such as Richard Riehle , Sally Kellerman and Edie McClurg . It's a movie that sticks nicely to the usual familiar Columbo movie formula . It has a nice typical murder-mystery story , although Columbo murders never really have been a ' mystery ' , since we always know from the beginning on who got killed by who , how and why . The story by the way also partly got written by McGoohan , so this really is ' his ' movie . It isn't the most fast going Columbo movie but it nevertheless always is a good and interesting to watch , since the story progresses nicely and the movie features some nice characters and actors that are portraying them .
An entertaining few minutes .	Adam Bertocci goes Woody Allen style , in this fun movie with some great and fun dialog . " Sparky " is a great one man show by and with Adam Bertocci . The best thing is the dialog which is really entertaining and fun most of the time . It's just too bad that this movie is so short . The story had a lot more potential and the ending was kind of abrupt . I think , had been the movie been twice longer , it would have even been a better one . Still " Sparky " is a perfectly entertaining short movie that is really well worth watching .
Interesting .	Most people assume that the Boris Karloff version was the first Frankenstein movie ever filmed . This 1910 version of the Mary Shelley novel is very rare and unknown to most people . First of all when you watch this movie you of course shouldn't expect a good flowing story with nice acting . See this just pure for historical sake , the first ever " Frankenstein " movie is a pretty interesting experience to watch . If you interested in this old movie kind of stuff this is a must see . It has some surprisingly good elements , such as the way that the Frankenstein monster was created . The acting of course looks pretty laughable these days . The way Augustus Phillips reacts every time after he sees the monster is almost slapstick like . Also the visual look is just horrible , it simply just looks as a filmed version of a stage play , completely with some obviously fake backgrounds . An interesting movie to watch pure for historical reasons .
Simple Laurel & Hardy short but has some absolute hilarious moments in it .	This is a very simple made Laurel & Hardy short with an almost non-existent and not that great story . However the gags in the movie are absolutely hilarious and are the reason why this is one of the better Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts . It's a very consistent movie that remains funny throughout its entire running time . It has some absolute priceless visual jokes in it and a really funny ending . It's always fun to see Walter Long in a villainous role in any Laurel & Hardy movie , so this one included . He probably is also one of the reasons that makes this movie oh so fun and hilarious to watch . Also a couple of other Laurel & Hardy regulars show up again . Simple comedy short but the humor in it is absolutely priceless and its timing spot-on !
In the search for truth and answers .	The movie is a realistic retelling of the events involving the Zodiac killer . Crimes that as of yet still haven't been solved . The movie is told from many different viewpoints , such as the reporters that receive his letters and the police . Because of the different approaches the movie always knows to grab your attention and interest , without having to ever fall back onto some Hollywood clichés . It of course helps that the writer of the novel Robert Graysmith worked himself on this movie project for years . The story at all times is kept realistic . Some people might find it odd and distracting that the movie focuses on so many different characters and the movie doesn't really have one main character who's solving the crimes . What I loved most about the movie was that it without problems crosses 4 different decades . The movie begins in the late ' 60's , then the ' 70's and for a small part even the ' 80's and ' 90's . The atmosphere , style of movie-making is all consistent with the decade the movie is set in at the moment . The movie knows to re-create a perfect ' 60's and ' 70's look , in a very detailed and realistic way . I think this mostly explains the movie its very high budget . The movie also shows how an interest for something can turn into an obsession . It does this subtle and non-forced . I also liked it that the movie never got too personal or close with any of the characters within the movie . This type of movie could had easily been turned into a over-dramatized one , but the movie deliberately focuses purely on the one main essence of the movie ; Who is the Zodiac killer ? A question that of course gets never answered within the movie but the search for the answer alone is already a tense and exciting long process . The movie is filled with some big-name actors , such as Robert Downey Jr . I like how he always seems to play a caricature of himself . And eccentric , free-spirit , drug / drink addict . He's great in his role in this movie ! Jake Gyllenhaal has never convinced me before of being the right man - and have the capabilities of playing a main character and carry an entire movie but with this movie he comes close of showing he can do it . Other actors that give a nice performance in this movie are Mark Ruffalo and Elias Koteas , among others , while other big name actors play some very small parts in the movie , such as Brian Cox , Adam Goldberg and Clea DuVall . It's far from David Fincher's best work , but that says more something about the qualities of Fincher than about this actual movie .
A great movie , for its genre .	Italian horror movies from the ' 70's and ' 80's especially , are not really know for their subtitle or overall brilliantness . Let's face it , they always have low production values and has a cheap look over it , with actors in it that really can't act . In essence all of the movies are also the same with its story and development . " Antropophagus " is really no exception to this all but has as a big difference that it's really well developed and build up , which provides the movie with a great horror atmosphere that is both tense and gory , despite being predictable from start till finish . Next to the gore , also all of the other typical Italian horror movie elements are present here ; many young characters , a scary kid ( although she is only scary in one sequence ) , cannibalism and a psychotic monster like killer . No sex or nudity present though this time , which was a bit of a surprise . The movie is really well build up . It features many scares and false-scares . Also the tense ending does not disappoint . It also definitely helps the movie and its tension that the killer his face isn't shown until about halve way through the movie . It makes the movie more mysterious and tense at the same time , which also really adds to the atmosphere . Also the environment adds to this atmosphere . The movie is set on a small Greek uninhabited island , where all the former residents were slaughtered . It makes the island empty , moody and claustrophobic , which all suits the horror genre really well of course . There are also two sequences that make this movie a memorable one and through that also makes it distinct itself from other genre movies . The first is the one in which our psychotic monster rips an unborn fetus out of the belly of a woman and starts to eat it , while the dying husband is watching and the second one is the ending when the killer is starting to eat his own intestines after being stabbed in the belly . Really some unforgettable and gory sequences . The movie is filled with also some other great gory sequences and scare moments , such as the head in the bucket and the Irina Karamanlis suicide . The movie is also helped by it's killer , that is a great character , who is also quite scary looking . The budget for the movie obviously wasn't very high . Like with all Italian genre movies is the case , the sound is terrible , the movie cheap looking and the actors are amateurs . I also at the same time adds to the charm of the movie and it gives B-slasher movies like this one ( because let's face it , this is a B-movie , no matter how well its made ) a big cult following . And in that perspective , this movie by specialist Joe D'Amato is definitely one of the better ones out of its genre .
Actually , it's very good !	Of course it comes nowhere close to the brilliance of " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " , but I don't think that ever was the makers intension . I believe that " 2010 " was made to tie up the loose ends and answer some of the questions that " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " left . While " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " was more a visual movie , " 2010 " actually has many dialog but that doesn't mean that the movie isn't visually spectacular . The sets look beautiful and the special effects also have improved a lot . The story is easier to follow and therefor the movie is more better to watch for a wider range of people then " 2001 : A space Odyssey " was . And I even think that this movie is pleasant to watch even if you haven't seen " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " . luckily HAL is still scary even though his role is smaller in this one . And the space walk is actually still one of my favorite moments in cinema history ! The performances by the actors are good , and the tension and relation between the Americans and Russians is done very well . Although not as brilliant , easier to watch as " 2001 : A Space Odyssey "
A silent movie like only D . W . Griffith could make them .	It's amazing to see how incredibly good all of D . W . Griffith's movies are , especially considering he made his best work in the 1910's and 1920's , when movie-making was a relatively new medium and there weren't any other movie-makers around on the same league as Griffith to compare the work to . D . W . Griffith was truly a pioneer in modern movie-making . His techniques and ways of storytelling were unique for the medium and set the later standards for modern movie making . But on top of that , in todays perspective , his movies remain just as good , interesting and entertaining to watch . It makes his movies not only historically relevant and revolutionary but also a pure simple pleasure to watch . No , I don't regard " Broken Blossoms or The Yellow Man and the Girl " as one of his best works but that isn't saying much about the quality of it . The quality is still superb and the movie features a fascinating story with great characters in it . It's interesting to see how well layered the story is . It handles lots of relevant themes and points out some daring new one's , for 1919 standards , such as an interracial relationship . The overall underlying message of the movie was how hardened society has become and how easily we resolve to violence , rather than to look further than the first glance , or take the trouble to place yourself is someone else's shoes . In essence this is a movie about the good old subject of good versus evil , love versus hate . The story is for most part told from the viewpoint of a Chinese who want to spread love and peace , from the learning of the Buddha over the world . He soon gives up this mission when he arrives in England and learns there is no hope in trying to help - and change this society . He soon after than opens a store and starts a new life until when he falls in love with a young girl , whose father is a brute . The movie obviously is a melodramatic one but like with all D . W . Griffith's movies is the case , it all works out extremely effective and powerful . Especially toward the ending of the movie the drama becomes powerful and works surprising effective . The movie just works out perfectly and often let the images speak for them selves . The movie is beautifully looking with some very convincing looking - and big sets and moody cinematography by the early professional . The movie also uses some close-ups and even extreme close-ups , which wasn't too common for its time period and it works surprising well for the movie its storytelling - and to set up the right mood and tension of a sequences . The acting is of course over-the-top , for the obvious reasons . Back in the silent movie era , actors always had to exaggerate in their posses and movements to tell the story and to create the right emotions and atmosphere of the sequence . Especially Donald Crisp does this . It seems pretty weird that most of the Chinese and at least the ones that are the main characters , are being portrayed by non-Asian actors under a lot of make-up . It really isn't very credible looking but it's a technique not uncommon for it's time period . Even decades later , often western actors would portray Asian characters . Best example of this is of course Mickey Rooney in his 1961 performance in " Breakfast at Tiffany's " . A both powerful and just great to watch silent-movie , from D . W . Griffith .
A movie that begins uninteresting but gets better and better as it head toward the ending .	This was a great little surprise . Most film-noir's from the ' 40's are always a good watch and this movie is also certainly among the better one's of its period . A real surprise , considering that this movie is a fairly unknown one and is directed by Michael Curtiz , who had his most success - and is best known for directing entertaining , adventurous movies . To be honest , the movie really doesn't begin well . At first it seems like the movie is a typical mystery / thriller in which a woman cannot remember a man , who claims to be her husband . The movie looks like a mostly talking-flick with standard characters and a good story that however lacks in serious tension and just isn't interesting enough . However soon the movie starts to take a positive turn , when it slowly abandons this plot line and turns into a murder-mystery . The movie becomes tense , atmospheric and completely captivating . The movie really gets better by the minute , as it heads toward the ending and it begins to develop better layered - and more developed story lines . Too bad that still the fine second halve can't fully compensate for the more weaker first halve of the movie . The movie is skillfully put together by cast and crew . The movie has a great visual look and I especially love the use of shadows in this movie . It makes some of the sequences really look marvelous , while they serve a purpose as well . They also help to make the movie as a whole a very atmospheric piece of work , that has a perfect required tense , dangerous and mysterious feeling all over it . It shows that Michael Curtiz could handle the genre really well as a director . Claude Rains really plays a great role in this movie . Joan Caulfield also showed that she was beautiful as well as talented . Too bad that Ted North for most part ruins the first halve of the movie with his stiff and weak acting . Apparently he agreed with me , since this movie was his last movie role ( or did he die shortly after this movie ? ) . The movie further more features some great cast supporting actors , such as Jack Lambert and Harry Lewis . A great little unknown genre movie from Michael Curtiz , that film-noir lovers will surely be able to appreciate , despite its weaker , less interesting , first 40 minutes , or so .
The most bold and daring Harry Potter movie as of yet .	Lots of people at the time praised " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " for its dark approach and atmosphere . Well , if " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " was a dark movie , than this is an ultra-dark movie . " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " was a semi-dark children / fantasy movie that never really dared to cross the line . " Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix " is not afraid to this though . I must say that this movie is actually closer to horror than fantasy in my opinion . It had an incredible atmosphere , with also some classic build up horror moments . There is little room left for fun in this movie and it's all very serious . Yes , perhaps a bit too serious though . I felt that the movie could had used some relieving humor at times , something all of the other Harry Potter movies were still loaded with . No , I'm not a great Harry Potter fan and never will be probably , but I have to give it credit for some thing . The series perfectly adapt to the maturing of the main characters as well as the viewers / readers . In other children book series the readers / viewers of course mature over the years , but the stories don't mature with them and everything remains just the same as the first book / movie . I praise the Harry Potter series for not doing so . So the movie is quite different from any of the previous other Harry Potter movies . It has a new style , which provides the movie with a different atmosphere . This is being empathized all the more by the different musical score from the still unknown Nicholas Hooper . I liked this idea . A new approach calls for a new style , also in the music . None of the themes sound familiar or reminds us of any of the other previous Harry Potter movies . The movie is more political than fun . The whole taking over Hogwarts thing by the ministry was done quite nicely and interesting . Harry and friends need to face some serious grown up difficulties now . Voldermort is back , no doubt , which means that there now needs to be fought in a battle between life and death . So no giant spiders , house elves , games of quidditch , brewing potions behind closed doors or snakes this time , but a real murderous evil villain , with dangerous followers , that needs to be stopped . I'm sort of fed up though with all of these new characters that constantly get introduced in every new Harry Potter movie . It's of course not that any of those characters are bad , or being portrayed by horrible actors , but it just goes at the expensive of already some fine and established actors , such as Minerva , Dumbledore , Snape and Hagrid , who are now all being pushed more to the background . The movie is now filled with literally dozens of characters , that are not all getting the attention they need and deserve . This is a very recommendable movie , especially if you thought that all of the Harry Potter movies were still too childish .
Paul Verhoeven back to his roots .	More than 20 years after his last Dutch movie , Verhoeven returns to his native country with the movie " Zwartboek " . Of course expectations were high and people from both the Netherlands and those outside of it , who are familiar with his earlier Dutch movies , eagerly awaited this movie , probably expecting a new " Soldaat van Oranje " . With all those high anticipations , which also must have putted lots of pressure on Verhoeven's shoulders , the movie could only disappoint , like unfortunately too often is the case by ' hyped ' and highly anticipated movies . To most professional Dutch movie critics this movie was a slight disappointment , probably expecting way too much of it . Granted that " Zwartboek " does have its flaws but overall this movie surpassed my expectations , mainly since the movie is a well balanced mix of Verhoeven's earlier Dutch work and his later Hollywood works . It provides the movie with an unique and straight-forward as ever style with lots of spectacular and entertaining moments and some fine acting . Make sure not to expect a new " Soldaat van Oranje " like movie and you'll be able to enjoy and be impressed by the movie for what it is . To be honest the movie didn't started off well . The beginning is messy , with way too much happening on screen in a too short amount of time . It's unclear were the movie is heading to and what for a kind of movie it is going to be . There isn't a main plot line which doesn't help to make the movie interesting or easy to watch . Luckily the second halve is much better and completely blew me away . I really didn't expected to see so much action and tense and spectacular moments . The movie starts of as a typical Dutch WW II drama but quickly turns into a spectacular action / thriller with moments that really impress . I like Paul Verhoeven movies , both his Dutch as his Hollywood movies , for several reasons . One of them is that he can always tell a dramatic and powerful story in a heavy impressive but yet also always entertaining way . His movies always have one or multiple messages in it but they are disguised so well into the story ( also kudos to Gerard Soeteman for that of course ) that is doesn't ever get distracting or feels overdone and preachy but still it works unconsciously effective and powerful nevertheless . Another reason why I love Verhoeven movies is that he's never afraid to show the dark side of people . " Zwartboek " teaches us that nothing in this world is completely black and white and not everything and everyone is completely right or wrong , good or bad . Despite the movie its beginning , the movie is well written with some good and interesting characters in it . The story takes some great thriller kind of twists and turns , which also both helps the drama and action moments work out . It has some misses but overall it has way more hits , which makes " Zwartboek " probably not the best Dutch movie since years but certainly the most interesting and surprising one . The fact that the story is completely told from a woman's point of view makes the movie all the more powerful and believable , as well as unique and interesting . Had Verhoeven not worked in America for several years , this movie would had had a completely different look and style . Verhoeven his ' Hollywood ' style can be found back in this movie . Mainly of course in its action but also mostly in its professionalism in terms of directing style , camera-work and pacing . " Zwarttboek " probably is more ' Hollywood ' than ' European ' in terms of style and storytelling , which should mean that persons who aren't familiar with European movies should be able to enjoy this movie as well . Also still Verhoeven's own unique distinctive style in this movie is notable , meaning lots of nudity , sex and graphic violence but it all serves a purpose and therefor doesn't feel overdone or unneeded . The acting in this movie is top-class , from both the Dutch actors as well as the Germans . Every well known and respected Dutch actor stood in line to work with Verhoeven on his first Dutch movie since several decades . Verhoeven gratefully took advantage of this and the movie is filled with some of the best Dutch actors around at the moment . People from the Netherlands already knew it but now the rest of the world also knows that Carice van Houten is one great actress , with a great charisma and look . She carries the movie for most of its time and does this in an highly convincing and impressive way . This movie surely means her internationally breakthrough , at least if she is up for that . She further more has a great chemistry with basically every of her fellow actors in this movie , especially with Sebastian Koch and Halina Reijn . Actors in this movie who were also really good were Thom Hoffman and Derek de Lint and German actors Waldemar Kobus and Christian Berkel . Johnny de Mol however feels out of place and he plays an highly unconvincing character that only works distracting . The movie is really professional and good looking , despite its very low-budget ( even though its the most expensive Dutch movie ever made ) . The great cinematography by Karl Walter Lindenlaub gives the movie its own identity and great look . The movie looks especially professional with its action . For some reason action and shoot sequences never look convincing in Dutch movies but this movie is a glorious exception . Will " Zwartboek " win an Oscar for best foreign film ? As much as I want to see Verhoeven finally win an Oscar and get some recognition , I don't think it will win . " Zwartboek " is probably too spectacular and ' Hollywood ' for that . I think that the academy would prefer a more heavy drama with a more serious told story , that is more powerful than entertaining . More entertaining and impressive than powerful but a fine sweet surprise nevertheless that honestly surpassed my expectations .
Great Dutch drama .	The Dutch are not great at making movies but when they make a WW II movie it often is a little masterpiece . " De Aanslag " is a movie like this . " De Aanslag " isn't necessarily about WW II but more about the effects of it on a persons life and why things happen the way they do and how little things can effect a persons life for ever . Most of the movie's story is set in the years after WW II and uses flashbacks of things that happened in WW II to make more things clear and to show things from a different perspective from different individuals that were involved in the incident were the movie is about . It becomes more and more clear what happened at the night that collaborator Ploeg was killed but the Dutch resistance and more importantly why things happened the way it happened . The story also shows a detailed view of the Netherlands and their citizens the years and decades after WW II and how it still affected many . There are many great returning characters in the story and the acting is for especially Dutch standards pretty high . Derek de Lint who now is better know world wide for his role as Derek Rayne in " Poltergeist : The Legacy " is a great leading man that really carries the movie . The cinematography from Theo van de Sande who later did the cinematography for the movie hit " Blade " is great and sets a nice mood . The directing by Fons Rademakers is done wonderfully and it never makes the movie hard to follow even though at times it gets a bit complicated . Great Dutch Oscar winning drama with some memorable moments and a fantastic ending were everything comes together and gets clear .
A different kind of gangster movie .	When you say gangster movie , you immediately think about movies like " The Godfather " and " Goodfellas " . " Road to Perdition " is also a gangster movie but it's different . It's more stylish and focuses even more and goes deeper in on the characters . Visually this movie is absolutely wonderful ! The atmosphere is brilliant thanks to the likewise brilliant cinematography by Conrad L . Hall who won a well deserved Oscar for it . Unfortunately the brilliant Mr . Hall died 11 weeks before he could collect his second Oscar . " Road to Perdition " was a worthy last movie for him . Also the sets and costumes and last but not least the subtle and soft music by Thomas Newman all add further to the atmosphere . Tom Hanks is absolutely wonderful in this film . At first he plays a strict father and tough gangsters but as the movie progresses his character becomes more and more loose and open . The way the father / son story is told is brilliant and almost touching . Not only the Sullivan / Sullivan Jr . story but also the Sullivan / Rooney father / son story . I can't say that I'm always happy the way Jude Law's character is used throughout the movie and about the character in general . Veteran Paul Newman of course is a wonderful addition to the solid cast . The story is told in a wonderful way by director Sam Mendes with lot's of visual beauty . Result is a unique gangster film with some unforgettable scene's such as the rain shootout , which is absolutely a brilliant scene thanks to the cinematography , music and the sound or better said the lack of sound . A wonderful character driven , crime drama .
Highly original movie .	This is an highly original and refreshing horror movie about cannibals told with lots of well placed black-comedy . There never has been a movie like this before and there most likely will never be one again . Once when I was switching channels I came across the last hour of " Ravenous " . Even though I had no idea what happened in the first part of the movie I was still intrigued by the movie and couldn't keep my eyes of the screen . I was both entertained and thrilled by it . I remember especially that the unusual but fitting musical score by Damon Albarn and Michael Nyman grabbed my attention . This was a year or so ago and now finally I have seen this entire movie in total ! The movie features some highly all in a way eccentric characters but it never goes over-the-top or becomes ridiculous . It makes the movie entertaining but also keeps the other more exciting and mysterious moments of the movie powerful and thrilling . Robert Carlyle is especially good as the main ' villain ' and Guy Pearce is also highly believable in his role as cowardly captain during the Mexican-American war . The two of them really carry this movie and are supported by an highly talented supporting cast consisting out of ; the always enjoyable Jeffrey Jones , Jeremy Davies in a typical role for him , David Arquette in an highly amusing role and Neal McDonough , now better known perhaps for his role in " Band of Brothers " and " Minority Report " . If you're in for something totally new and refreshing and / or you are a fan of the horror genre this is simply a must see for you ! One of the most underrated and unknown movies of the last couple of years .
An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind .	This movie does provide a powerful , gripping and for most part realistic view of the 1972 Munich Olympic tragedy and its aftermath . Of course , especially the movie its view of the aftermath , is mostly , if not entirely , fictional and we will probably never know if events as presented in this movie actually really truly occurred . It however is not the movie its intention to provide a realistic and documentary like view on the events of the 1972 assassination of the Israeli athletes and what happened afterward . The movie does make the viewer think . Is violence always the best way to answer violence and what are the consequences of it . The movie is filled with deep and important questions like this that the movie does not try to answer but it leaves it up to us to think about and draw our own conclusions . People often accuse this movie if picking sides . To me this just seems silly . It's not a question of whose side were the film-makers on , that really is not relevant for the movie . The movie does show both sides their motives and it does help you to somewhat better understand both parties and why they do the things they do . So is that the reason why this movie is considered to be controversial by so many all over the world ? I don't think that is the main reason . I think it's because of it that everyone suddenly now has a face . The movie shows that terrorist are also humans who have a family and emotions . Not everything in this world is black and white or as simple as it first seems . You suddenly now see that the terrorist get nervous and unsure as well and doesn't seem to be so completely ruthless and heartless at all . This movie does a very good job at portraying this . This might be a shock for some people , who never really considered this or thought about . The story is a very gripping and interesting one . Even though the movie is 164 minutes long , it's no bore . The events in the movie are always interesting and the questions asked in this movie forces you to think and perhaps might even reconsider some of your views . Basically the movie for most part is a good old fashioned espionage-thriller but with a realistic and gripping twist to it . The movie shows that ultimately violence leads to nowhere and in most cases only worsens things . It's a vicious circle and downward spiral , that leads to nowhere and ultimately only leads to more pain and suffering on both sides . At least that my view and interpretation of this movie . You can draw your own personal conclusions from it . Really Spielberg does deserve credit and respect for having the courage to bring up such a sensitive but yet still relevant subject that is considered highly controversial . The movie does a very good job at re-creating the ' 70's style and atmosphere . The settings , costumes , hair are all very good and realistic , as simple and irrelevant as it all might seem at first sight . The cinematography by Janusz Kaminski is at times highly impressive and delicious to watch . The musical score by John Williams was also great and just perfect for the movie . It was one of the best and most powerful scores of the year for me and in my opinion he should have won an Oscar for it as well . Not sure if Eric Bana was the right choice as the main lead . I already wasn't the biggest fan of him after watching " Hulk " and " Troy " . He doesn't really have enough charisma and is too boring . He also didn't really convinced me in this movie but I think that his way of acting and personality suited the character in this movie quite well . Daniel Craig was really good in this movie and he played a great character . Ciarán Hinds was also great as always and so was Michael Lonsdale , who is perhaps one of the most underrated and under-appreciated actors of the last decades . The movie is for most part a very realistic and authentic made one . It however gets also a bit too obvious that this movie was made a bit in a haste . Not every storyline gets fully and well enough developed and the main reason of the Mossad mission gets a bit muddled in . At times you forget that this is a movie that concentrates on the aftermath of the 1972 Munich Olympic tragedy . I think that is also the reason why Spielberg constantly puts on flashbacks of that event into the movie to help us remember . It however does mostly feel out of place at times and works distracting . Not the best example of movie-making and storytelling really . The movie also gets a bit too moralistic at times , which causes it to lose some of its credibility . The movie does at times also chooses the easy , simple and save road . As weird as it might sound , the movie does still have lots of humor in it . It's the typical Spielberg humor that is present in this movie . I wouldn't call it misplaced , since it worked well in the movie but it does make the movie a little bit less impressive and powerful to watch at certain moments . It's the only reason why I don't really this movie to be a masterpiece . But fact remains that this movie still is one of the most powerful movies that were released in the last couple of years . An important movie about an important event in history . See this movie and draw your own conclusions from its story and choose your own interpretation of it . It will grip you and make you think and reconsider guaranteed .
Laurel & Hardy as REAL kids this time !	Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy were of course already big kids in their movies but this time they also play kids . Beside the roles of the two young children , Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy , of course also portray the two fathers . This guarantees some hilarious sequences between the two kids and the two fathers . Most of the time Laurel & Hardy are playing against , well , Laurel & Hardy . It makes some of the sequences work out all the more hilarious . For the sequences with the children the sets are made to look larger . So large toys , a large bed and a large bathroom , among other things . It makes the movie good looking and above all also very original . Of course Laurel & Hardy look nothing like children , after all they both were close to 40 years old at the time of this movie . Yet it becomes very believable because of the acting of the two with each other . They both help each other out in this movie to make their performances work out as both good and hilarious . The movie features some really great and funny sequences , such as Oliver going done a staircase on a roller-skate and Laurel & Hardy being washed away by a large flood wave . The movie has some truly unique and hilarious comical moments in it that makes " Brats " an original as well as an hilarious comedy short . It also features plenty of enough slapstick to please the fans but it above all is a movie that should entertain just basically everybody . Not just your typical average Laurel & Hardy comedy short !
Even bad men love their mommas .	The western now days is a pretty dead genre . Only a couple of times every now and then a wonderful genre movie gets suddenly released again , of which " 3 : 10 to Yuma " is the most recent example . The movie isn't really a classic western , in terms of that it uses all of the clichés and techniques you would expect from the genre . It above all is a modern movie , that also takes an original approach to the genre . It of course features lots of tough looking and talking man but in the end the movie is all about trying to be a better man , no matter how black your heart seems . Yes , it's a movie that is being driven by its story and characters but it's also a movie that has plenty of action in it . It still makes this an action movie but one with some more heart and soul to it . You can of course expect a little bit more from a movie starring both Russell Crowe and Christian Bale opposite each other . The movie is of course being almost completely carried by its two principal actors but luckily the movie doesn't forget that it also has other great actors playing some nice roles in this movie , such as Peter Fonda and Ben Foster . The movie gives its actors plenty of opportunity to shine throughout . It's perhaps a bit of a long movie and it perhaps isn't always interesting enough but it builds up nicely to its ending , that is more than another big action sequences or shoot out but also shows how the characters have changed and most importantly grown throughout the entire movie . It's a visually impressive looking movie , with nice scenery and settings . The movie has a visual and technical modern approach to it but it still feels like an old fashioned genre movie , mostly due to its pace and settings . You don't have to be into westerns to like this movie and you don't have to be afraid when you are into westerns that this movie might not be faithful enough to its genre . A movie well worth seeing .
A fine ' 70's genre movie .	It's not a movie with a great or original story ( which horror movie does anyway ? ) or approach but this is simply one fine and effective genre movie , with a fine premise , good settings and some wonderful genre moments . Amazing thing is that director Bob Clark started his career with movies like this but soon continued on making movies such as " Porky's " and " Baby Geniuses " , which is obviously a totally different genre . A waste of his talent ? Well , in all honesty horror movies from the ' 70's are definitely better ones than the ones from the ' 80's of ' 90's , so I'm not too sure about it actually if Clark would had continued to direct horror movies during his later career those movies would had been as good as this one , mostly in terms of style . ' 70's movies of course have a very distinctive style and atmosphere . Some of the best and most classic horror movies also date back from the ' 70's . Movies such as " The Exorcist " , " The Omen " , " Don't Look Now " , " Halloween " oh and I can just go on and on . This movie wasn't the first slasher and it also wasn't the most influential or best known one ( credit for that still mostly goes to John Carpenter's " Halloween " ) but it's nevertheless obvious that this movie inspired later film-makers and is a fine example of the genre from the ' 70's . It's a really effective horror movie , that features all of the right required ingredients . It doesn't make this the most original genre movie with its style or approach but it's simply one fine executed one . The movie has a good dark and mysterious atmosphere and it also really knows to be scary in parts . Especially the phone calls within the movie , which play a key part , are really scary . I don't know what it is but phone calls are always scary and effective material for horror movies . Just think about movies such as " Scream " , " When a Stranger Calls " or " Sorry , Wrong Number " . What also helps the movie is its atmospheric musical score from Carl Zittrer , who used to work a lot with Bob Clark during his career . The movie also really has a great cast with actors you wouldn't necessarily normally expect in a genre movie such as this one . Margot Kidder is really great in this movie , in a fairly early role from her . The movie also stars Keir Dullea , who unfortunately doesn't ever star in that many movies . A great movie for the fans of the genre , as well as to everyone else for all that matter .
Eight above zero .	This is a rather enjoyable short Laurel & Hardy picture with again a story divided in two parts , that are both good and enjoyable in their own way . Problem with some of the Laurel & Hardy pictures is that the movies that are divided in two separate parts are not the best or most consistent ones , due to the fact that often the one part is better than the other . In this case both parts of the movie have their own certain charm and entertainment value and they go very well together . The first part is fun and a bit slapstick like and features some good old fashioned snowball fights . To be honest in the second part nothing really happens but it's hilarious nevertheless , due to the very fine comedy execution from director James Parrott and actors Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy . It makes both parts solid and should more than please the fans .
Good portrayal of American small-town-life of the ' 50's .	It's 1951 and there isn't a lot to do in the small Texan town Anarene . Basically in the whole town , there only is a cinema and a run-down pool hall for entertainment . So basically all the characters have in the movie is each other . Which makes it all the more difficult for the outcasts and those who don't like each other in the very small town . Especially the youth is the victim of this boring place . They are torn between several issues , which all have to do with the transition between puberty and adulthood and they come to the point at which they have to make some life-changing decisions . " The Last Picture Show " is a real character movie that is driven by its actors and subtle directing from Peter Bogdanovich . There isn't a real plot in terms of having a beginning , middle and ending . It more is a character observation of several different persons who are all forced to make several decisions and all have in common that they all live in the same small Texan town , in which they can basically only fall back on the run-down pool hall and cinema . By the time the pool hall is closed and at the cinema the last picture is shown ( hench the title ) , all the characters have to make the choices what to do with the rest of their lives . The movie is shot entirely in black & white and made in the same style as movies from the 40's / early ' 50's . It's quite risqué to make a movie in a totally different style and ' old ' style of movie-making but in this particular case it suits the story and movie well . It perfectly captures the mood of the depressing , boring ' 50's . There are some awkward unusual moments in the movie because of this style ( especially in its editing ) but I just took those moments for granted , since the style suited the story and the movie so well . Also the cinematography from Robert Surtees , who perhaps in my opinion was the best cinematographer of the ' 40's / 50's and early ' 60's , is quite perfect . The movie is however a bit too slow at times , even for my taste . Perhaps not really slow in terms of pace but more slow in terms of story-flow and consistency . Not everything that happens in the movie seems to serve a purpose for the movie but then again , life is filled with moments that don't seem to serve a purpose . So you can say that the movie is realistic , just not always interesting . This movie really launched the career of several actors , such as the still very young Jeff Bridges and Randy Quaid . Also Ellen Burstyn is present as well as many other well known and respected actors of that time period . It's a cliché but they don't make them like this anymore . This movie is a monumental one that is realistic and powerful but unfortunately not always totally interesting to follow , which regretfully prevents me from rating this movie any higher , even though this multiple Oscar nominated movie certainly deserves to be seen .
A strong emotional portrayal of the downfall of a man .	This is one great and effectively powerful movie , that focuses all around the mental breakdown of a man , who has given up basically everything for the woman he falls in love with . Love , like always , makes blind , causing things to go from bad till worse for the main character Prof . Immanuel Rath , played by the always impressive Emil Jannings . The movie is a good looking one with these sort of beautiful fake looking German expressionistic backgrounds and sets , that were mostly popular in the ' 20's and also part of the early ' 30's , such as this movie is from . It also at times has got some good cinematography . The sound quality and editing of it isn't always great but who can blame them , considering that this movie is from the period when ' talkies ' were still in its baby shoes . It has a story that sort of slowly progresses and has a couple of overlong sequences . All reasons to not regard this movie as one of the best ever made but that doesn't take away that this is a real good movie from Josef von Sternberg . Things really start to start off after the movie is about halve way though , when Prof . Immanuel Rath's life and career starts to go in a downward spiral . Who ever said movies are made only to entertain ? I'm sorry by I'm just sort of getting sick and tired of people constantly commenting negatively on movies just because they make them depressed . In that regard " Schindler's List " would be the worst movie ever made . Often these sort of depressing movies are among the best since it means they influence your emotions and touch you therefor are effective and also simply really well crafted ones . Even though it's an heavy movie with a dramatic story , it also has got plenty of entertainment in it . Lots of moments are really fun and just downward comical like , with also some weird and fun characters in it . With a great role from Emil Jannings , who was perhaps the very best actor of the ' 20's and even was the first person to receive an Oscar for best actor in a leading role . What made Emil Jannings mostly so great was that he could both play convincingly in a dramatic and comical way , often also in one and the same movie . This is also one of those movies , in which he plays a very serious character who in this movie also gets in some odd and comical situations . Jannings handles these comical moments extremely well , through minimalistic acting . The movie also features Marlene Dietrich in an early role before her real stardom . This movie was really the one that launched her career . Besided her acting skills , she also gets the chance to show of her singing skills in this movie . Though it's a bit funny that she is supposedly a native English speaker in this movie , even though she has a clear fat thick German accent . A real powerful and effective quality film , from the early days of sound cinema .
More like a whodunit thriller than an horror this one .	Since John Kramer and his apprentice Amanda are now truly death , the movie is more about who is the new Jigsaw now . Not that this makes the movie bad or anything but it obviously diverse a little from the Saw concept , as best got featured in part I and III . The Saw franchise is never afraid to kill off its main characters , with as a result that each movie remains unpredictable to watch again . New characters get constantly introduced all the time and even those who died in previous Saw movies can return in its sequels , since the movie often use flashbacks , as does this movie . The movie more goes into detail why John Kramer became Jigsaw and more ingenuously as it turns out in the end - " Saw III " and " Saw IV " are two interconnect movies . Perhaps best thing about the entire Saw franchise is that are of the movies are genuinely tense to watch , or at least in some parts of them . Its ingenuous writing also always makes sure that the movie offers plenty of surprises . Even though all of Saw movies are of course more or less the same , each movie is still original and great to watch in his own way . This is the reason why the Saw franchise still has more than anything potential - and is interesting enough to provide plenty of more movies . Part V and VI are already in development and why should they be the last of them ? Because all of the Saw movies are so cheap to make and cost so little time to shoot ( as of yet this is the most expensive Saw movie with its $10 , 000 , 000 budget ) and all of the movie continue on making so much money all over the world , it's also likely that many more Saw movies will get made . The games still continue in this movie . The gruesome deathtrap games the Saw franchise is so well known and appreciated for . So even though this movie takes a slightly different approach it still features plenty enough gore and other hard to look at moments . Hard because they are so stomach turning . In other words , there is plenty to enjoy for the Saw fans in this one . The traps are as gruesome and complex as ever . Seriously , how can people come up with this stuff ? It's the first Saw movie that didn't got written by Leigh Whannell or any of the other persons involved with the previous 3 Saw movies . Nevertheless , the story feels just as ingenuously written as any of the Saw movies and its done in the same style , with all of the twists and one big main twist at the ending again . It's also shot in the very same fast style as the previous Saw movies , which is no big surprise since this movie got also directed by Darren Lynn Bousman again , who also directed the previous two Saw entries . Still the series feel like it could use some fresh blood again . With a new Jigsaw and different directors at helm for the future Saw projects , it looks like the franchise is going for some fresh new changes to keep the Saw franchise original as well as interesting . I have confidence in it that the future movies can be just as good and original as any of the previous 4 Saw entries .
Great character movie .	I really like character movies . Movies like ; " 12 Angry Men " , " Glengarry Glen Ross " and the more recent Dutch movie " Cloaca " . " Death and the Maiden " also is such a character movie from master director Roman Polanski . One thing really surprised me about this movie . In a movie with Sigourney Weaver and Ben Kingsley you expect that those two will completely steal the show , however for me Stuart Wilson gave away the best acting performance of the movie . A movie with 3 such actors is of course a very strong movie , with both great performance's and dialogs in a realistic story . However with a story like this movie has you would expect more tense and maybe claustrophobic moments . The movie at time fails to and has some missed opportunities . So in a way you can call this movie a successful character movie but a flawed thriller . But of course if you like strong character movies this is a absolute must see , with an ending that doesn't disappoint . The story still offers some powerful moments and twists . An absolute must see for the character movie lovers among us .
Definitely entertaining .	OK so " The Boondock Saints " is a " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " wannabe , like so many other films but in this case it's a good wannabe that definitely entertains . It's definitely not a movie to take serious , even though it still picks a gritty and realistic approach . This is typical for recent British film-making and something they master . This production is American though and also made by an American director but it still uses this same typical distinctive British style with also British actors and characters in it . The end result in this case is a light-hearted , entertaining movie , that is professionally made . Not sure if I really like the main story of the movie , which glorifies violence and killing but it provides it with some nice and original sequences . It picks an original approach by sometimes using action flashbacks of what happened when the police investigates the crime scene , while still focusing on the linear storyline . This is a spectacular and original approach which often works out surprising as well as awesome . I think its approach is the foremost reason why " The Boondock Saints " works out so well and gives it its own identity and style . The movie is also really made great and interesting by the fact that it has Willem Dafoe in it in a great role . Seriously , I feel like it's one of the better roles out of his career . Couldn't care more or less about Sean Patrick Flanery and Norman Reedus really , who play the main leads of the movie . Billy Connolly also plays a fun role , although his role is much smaller than you perhaps would expect . A perfectly entertaining movie to watch .
Surprisingly great early Frankenheimer movie .	What a nice little surprise this was . This is a fairly unknown and low-key early movie from acclaimed director John Frankenheimer , who with this movie delivers a really effective character-drama . It's different , obviously very low budget and stagy but the movie works out extremely well due to the surprising big cast with great established actors in it . Angela Lansbury and Karl Malden as a married couple with Warren Beatty and Brandon De Wilde as their sons . It all sounds so unlikely and it takes awhile into the movie to get fully accustomed to it but once the movie really takes off all the pieces fall together and all works out fine . It's really the acting that makes this movie work . Due to the acting the characters become great and interesting . Everyone has their own unique character in this movie and everyone interacts differently with each other socially . The story itself is rather simplistic and everything in the movie involves around the central characters . It's the main reason why the movie feels a bit stagy but in this particular case I didn't really minded that . It's really a character movie and also a great family-drama . I especially love the way the relationship between the two brothers is brought to the screen . It's very recognizable for people who have a brother in real-life . In parts the movie gets definitely overdone and becomes predictable , when it comes down to its drama-elements . Nevertheless the movie works out as a powerful and effective one , again due to its fine acting . I was surprised to see how much the movie gets actually carried by Angela Lansbury . Karl Malden gets toned down in his role but this definitely suits his character and the movie . Warren Beatty was really great as a sort ' rebel without a cause ' , who is loved and almost worshiped by everyone , even by complete strangers but he himself hates life more than anyone else . Eva Marie Saint also shows up in one fine role and shows why she had already won an Oscar , prior to this movie . Definitely a movie worth searching out .
An improvement over Zombie's previous attempt .	This movie works out better than Rob Zombie's previous movie " House of 1000 Corpses " , of which this movie is a sequel . Seems like Rob Zombie has found this time a better balance between its style and story . The movie flows better and its storytelling works out more effective . Perhaps it also helps that the movie this time doesn't focus on a couple of teenagers . Central this time are simply the bad guys , who were already the most entertaining characters of the first movie . The movie also tries to play less homage to the horror genre and its more a movie on its own but still not without its fun and entertaining approach . The movie is also less about the ' supernatural ' . " House of 1000 Corpses " had some monster like creatures in it but this movie picks a more ' realistic ' approach , which always works out better for its suspense and predictability . It's also obviously the reason why the Dr . Satan scenes were cut from this movie . Basically this movie remains mostly unpredictable , since it features such unpredictable characters in it . It's more down to Earth , which also makes it easier to watch and more accessible for the mainstream public . " House of 1000 Corpses " was more of a cult-movie , while this movie also clearly had other intentions . You don't have to be worried about it though that this movie doesn't feature Rob Zombie's trademark style , there is plenty of that left . The movie feels less messy and more consistent this time and even though its not as stylish as " House of 1000 Corpses " it still is a better movie to watch . And hey , it has Danny Trejo in it !
Now this is one fine delightful screwball comedy !	I am not the biggest screwball comedy fan , since most movies just don't seem to really quite got ' it ' and are more or less often too much more of the same and they get drowned by the movie its clever story and low key sentiments . " My Favorite Wife " was however a screwball movie that I really enjoyed watching . It features all of the typical screwball elements , in which an odd unusual situations and how the characters handle them plays the central key element of the movie . Things get worse and worse when they get deeper and deeper into trouble when more facts slowly surface . It's a well written story that offers plenty of surprises with its moments and main plot-line , even though of course the movie in a sense is mostly predictable , just like any other genre movie . Who knows , perhaps the movie would had been even better if indeed Leo McCarey ended up directing it , like originally was intended . He however got involved in an automobile accident shortly before the filming of this movie and he had to pass on the directing honers to less experienced Garson Kanin . Kanin obviously didn't do a bad job with it but McCarey was of course more experienced in the genre and was definitely most at ease and in his element with directing these type of movies . He has some great classics below his belt , also prior to the release of this movie . McCarey still served as the writer and producer of the movie though , so his touch is still notable within the movie . The more I see of Cary Grant as a comedy actor , the more I start to like and appreciate him as one . He is of course still best known for the roles he played in Alfred Hitchcock movies but he successfully started off his career with movies such as this one . He was a great comedy actor who could play a regular guy , despite his always good look . While watching this movie it by the way also made me think ; ' Wow , this guy would had made a great James Bond ! ' . Later I found out that he was actually asked to play the James Bond character in the first 1962 Bond movie " Dr . No " but he turned it down because he believed to be too old already at the time to play the character . He stars in this movie with Irene Dunn , with who he has appeared in in several movies together throughout their career , which also all happen to be the same type of movies . Both were just 2 of the best and most successful genre actors at the time . One of the better movies that the ' 30's screwball genre has to offer .
Atmospheric retelling of the Ed Gein story .	Even though all of the character names within this movie are changed , most likely for legal reasons , this movie tells the story of one of the most infamous killers of all time ; Ed Gein . Of course some changes are made within the movie and the movie doesn't tell the whole story of Ed Gein but overall in its main lines it can be considered a fairly accurate movie . Ed Gein is of course a real interesting killer because of the very odd things he did , not as much to his victims but more because of the fact he was also a grave-robber who dug up his own deceased mother and took her into his home again . He dug up several more recently deceased middle aged woman , who resembled his mother in order to use their skin to patch up his mother's body with . He became real fascinated with anatomy and that of the female body in particular . He became so fascinated he wanted to become a woman himself and he made ' suits ' out of the skin of deceased women , which he could wear . He also made various other objects from parts of death bodies . A real amazing story , which inspired many film-makers over the years . This makes it all the more odd that there never really have been a good decent Ed Gein movie around . This one is probably the best one to watch out there , even though it changed all of the character names and it doesn't focus entirely on the life story of Ed Gein . There of course was a lot wrong in Ed Gein's life and inside his head in particular but this movie does not choose to waste much time on showing how he became the man he was and what drove him to his actions . It simply concentrates on the relationship he had with his mother and how she influenced his life entirely even long time after her death . This movie doesn't try to be overly complicated and a real thoroughly character study of a serial killer . This is what makes " Deranged " an easy to grasp and watch movie . It also makes it a ' pleasant ' one , since it's also definitely a movie with a certain quirky kind of sense over it . You know , come to think of it , I think the Coen brothers would be the perfect candidates to make a story about Ed Gein's life . Also a real strong point of this movie is its atmosphere . This movie obviously was an ultra-low budget one , which works out actually quite well for the movie its atmosphere and overall realism . I honestly doubt this movie would had been better , had it had a multi-million dollar budget . One thing a multi-million dollar could had given the movie though would be some better actors to play the movie its roles . With all respect but none of the actors within the movie are among the most talented ones . It's true that it adds to the certain quirkiness and ' fun ' of the movie , also since the movie obviously doesn't attempt to conceal it isn't the most professional movie ever made with the most talented actors involved . The movie also doesn't really show any of the killings or how Gein ( or in this movie Ezra Cobb ) skinned any of his dug up bodies and how he made items out of them . So if you're expecting a bloody and gory ' 70's horror flick this is not the movie for you . It's not an exploitation flick and in that regard this movie is also really quite original for ' 70's standards . A really recommendable , atmospheric , little low-budget retelling of the Ed Gein story , that you give a go .
Laurel & Hardy run in to a ghost . . . at least they think it is .	This is Laurel & Hardy at their very best . A silly story and simple story that relies heavily on the comical timing of the actors . Its a Laurel & Hardy short that certainly does not disappoint . The movie can yet again be divided into two separate parts . In the first part the boys meet up with a ship captain ( Walter Long ) who is looking for a crew . He has a hard time finding a crew , since the ship he owns is notorious among the sailors and is known to be haunted . The second part of the movie is set on the ship itself . It's the part in which the boys get into some hilarious trouble once more , this time with a ghost , who of course turns out to be not a real ghost at all . Both parts are different in terms of the humor that is used . But both parts are hilarious in their very own way . The both parts may not really connect with each other , which doesn't make this the most consistent Laurel & Hardy shorts ever made but the silly and hilarious humor compensate for this , more than enough . Another reason why this movie is better than the average Laurel & Hardy comical shorts is the presence of a couple of Laurel & Hardy regulars . Walter Long is great and bold as always . Arthur Housman does what he can do best , playing a drunk and Mea Busch is also present . Here presence might feel a bit out of place and perhaps even unnecessary but she just was a great comical actress , who also does provides some good laughs in this movie . The movie does really has some great comical sequences in it , mainly when the two boys are being confronted by the ' ghost ' and they start running and screaming , like a couple of 10-year old girls . It helps to make this comical short an highly amusing and memorable one . Good first part and a good second , make a good movie overall .
An adventure of great proportion !	The thing that surprised me about this movie was how big this production was . Thousands of extras and costumes and dozens of cameo's in a trip around the world . Unfortunately the movie has lost some of its power throughout the years . It is beginning to get outdated and it almost seems like a miracle these days that this movie has won 5 Oscar's including the one for best picture in 1957 . Especially the pace is outdated , there are some endless long scene's that just don't seem to end and go on and on . The movie is filled with cameo's ( the first movie ever ) . But I'm ashamed to say that I hardly recognized anyone . We are talking about 1956 here , those who were big stars back then are now long since gone . The only one I recognized was Sir John Gielgud , no I even didn't recognized Frank Sinatra or Marlene Dietrich . David Niven was in his element and was a great leading man . I can't say that I'm completely happy with the casting choice of Cantinflas as Passepartout but fortunately it doesn't ruin the movie in any way . The story is great and adventurous , there are countless fun and entertaining moments in this epic production .
The egocentric lady-killer Alfie begins to become aware of his own misbehavior but can he still change ? And isn't it too late already ? - An excellent character study .	This movie is an excellent character study and period study of the ' 60's . It sheds some lights on some for ' 60's standards controversial subjects but it does this in a light enjoyable way , without making the movie too preachy , though its message still comes over perfectly . I wasn't too sure what to expect when watching this movie . Guess I expected another silly over-the-top British comedy but the movie turned out to be a light movie about some serious matters . Sounds like a weird combination but it works out perfectly . This is probably the definitive Michael Caine role . It's the role most people shall always remember him for and he had a hard time getting rid of his Cockney-image after this movie . The main character is rude , self-centered and over-confident . Yet the character intrigues and you never start to hate him . I think this says a lot about the way Michael Caine portrays him . He delivers one of his best , if not best performances , that you have to see to believe . He carries the entire movie and lifts it to a level of true excellence . It really is the main character that makes the movie and its story work out so fine . It sorts of even makes you forget that also the great Shelley Winters is in the movie , giving away a fine performance . Also Denholm Elliott shows up in a small but really great role . For its time " Alfie " is a quite daring movie . The subject of self-centered lady-killers isn't a much lighted subject . He messes around with married women , even women of men that he knows and even manages to get a married woman pregnant . Which brings us to the most controversial subject of the movie ; abortion . He doesn't ever get emotional involved with any of them and drops them as soon as he gets bored of them or when they're becoming too difficult to handle or maintain a relationship with . It's a rude movie but the style it is made in makes sure that its more of a fun and light one to watch . This doesn't mean that the message about self behavior doesn't come across . Through the performances and style of movie-making the message still comes across perfectly and effective , in a non-forced way . The main character in the movie slowly begins to realize that this is not the right way to live . He's starting to age and his health is also starting to decline . He gets a couple of setbacks in the movie which are needed to make him aware of his own behavior . HE tries to change and settle down but is it possible to still set things straight and start living a new life after all those years of not caring ? The movie subtle handles these questions and many more . It's all the more reason why " Alfie " is such a powerful and effective movie to watch . The movie is very style-fully directed by Lewis Gilbert , who later went on directed some fan-favorite James Bond movies . The constant talking-right-into-the-camera of the main character works great in an original narrative way and makes lots of things clear without wasting to much time on the images or dialog of a sequences . It helps to make " Alfie " a fast paced movie that is over before you know it . It also helps you to get involved deeper - and more easy with the main character . The movie also gives us an excellent realistic view in the ' 60's and the social life of the period . It sort of makes this an essential ' 60's viewing . An excellent , amusing and powerful mix of drama and comedy , with an intriguing main character and story filled with controversial subjects , without ever trying to shock or preach .
Honor thy father and mother .	In Hollywood your career is already mostly over once you're over the age of 40 , especially if you're a female . This in the ' 30's was even more so the case then now days actually . So making a movie about 2 aging people was quite an unique and daring move for 1937 standards . For this the movie mostly deserves credit but it on top of that is also simply a fine movie , that gets carried by its story and strong characters . It's not the usual sappy dramatic story and movie as perhaps you would normally expect from a ' 30's movie . It instead is a movie that focuses on some more real emotions of life , without ever having to force to much with its emotions to carry out its story and perhaps also some morals . Well yes , it's a ' 30's movie set in the ' 30's , so of course it's sort of outdated with its story . In this modern age the two elderly people the movie focuses on shall be less lonely and they at least will remain more in contact with each other , after their forced separation in this movie . But of course this doesn't make the movie or any of its emotions any less powerful . It's a real movie about life , with realistic characters and a story that is more or less recognizable for everyone . Even though the children obviously love and care about their parents , they just can't take care of them after they had lost their house to the bank . Instead they are even embarrassed for them and they get in the way with their average normal lives . Don't really know why this movie isn't any better known , since everyone everywhere speaks so well of it . Perhaps it's because it's not your typical average ' 30's movie and drama has some to do with it .
A movie to enjoy !	Very much like Spielberg's other ' little ' movie " Catch Me If You Can " this is simply a movie to enjoy . It will not win any big awards and it's not a real must see but it is a very excellent and entertaining movie to watch . I think that it are only two things that make this movie work ; Tom Hank's acting and Steven Spielberg's directing . Hanks returns to his roots , that of a comedy actor . He shows that he still is a very talented and great character comedy actor . Spielberg's directing makes this movie a light one to watch . It is filled with some typical and good as ever trademark Spielberg kind of humor and some realistic and yet enjoyable characters . Stanley Tucci really plays excellent in this movie ! Main problem with " The Terminal " is the story . It is filled with some rather big plot holes and in a way most of it is predictable and cliché . It's like they said ; ' Hey we've got Spielberg directing and Hanks starring in the main role , who needs a waterproof story ! ? ' . In a way it doesn't really matter , it doesn't make the movie less enjoyable to watch but it just prevents it from being a perfect and a must see movie . All in all a very enjoyable movie with some good comical moments and characters but not one of the must sees of
Such a fine enjoyable movie !	Don't ask me why but when I was younger I would often watch this movie and the first one ; " Stakeout " . Of those two movies this is the one that has always stayed most in my mind . Basically this movie is just great entertainment . Like all those type of movies from that period there isn't much to the story and the movie is all about its characters and actors playing them . Compare it to the ' Lethal Weapon ' movies , minus all of the action . This movie does have some fine characters and actors portraying them . Even better is the chemistry they all have . Richard Dreyfuss form Emilio Estevez a great ' buddy ' cop duo and Rosie O'Donnell is also a fine addition to the two , basically since she is such a fine comedy actress . It also sort of makes you wonder why Richard Dreyfuss hasn't appeared in more comedy roles . He obviously has the talent and certainly the right timing for it . Guess he better wants to be remembered as a ' serious ' actor and who can really blame him for that . The movie further more features Dennis Farina , Miguel Ferrer and Madeleine Stowe . The movie is filled with some great comedy moments . that mostly , again , work out due to the characters and actors of the movie . The movie has some guaranteed laughs and make this a perfect typical ' no worries ' movie . Just sit back and enjoy watching it ! It also shows that John Badham is actually a fine genre director ! The timing is great and the pace , editing and positioning all make sure that the comedy in the movie works out even better . It's too bad that the story just mostly distracts from the movie and its humor . It's just not anything solid , interesting or something that hasn't been done before . But then again , this is all quite typical for the genre and time period it was made in . Basically if you enjoyed one or more of the ' Lethal Weapons ' movies , you'll surely enjoy this movie as well . Guess the movie could had impressed some more by putting in some more and bigger action . The movie now feels quite simple and cheaply made at times , which at times becomes distracting but overall doesn't take away any of the fun of the movie . Great entertainment !
One of the better directed Columbo movies .	Of course basically all of the Columbo movies are more or less the same and they mostly can distinct itself mainly through its directing . This is one of the better directed Columbo movies and its made with lots of pace and style . It's a Columbo movie that got made with a lot of class . It features cinematic tricks such as split-screens and also the cinematography is not just only static . But director Robert Butler also knows how to handle its actors . Peter Falk is in good form in his Columbo role , who acts more in a police role this time than perhaps is the case in any other Columbo movie . Jack Cassidy also plays a good role as the movie its main suspect . Columbo movies almost always featured famous actors in the role of the key suspect . Jack Cassidy is not the best known actors of this bunch but he has played some good roles throughout his career , including a role in the previous Columbo movie " Columbo : Murder by the Book " , directed by Steven Spielberg . The main suspect in this movie uses a very original tactic . He tries to make himself look as suspicious as possible at first , by leaving clues and leaving suspicious statements , even though he himself did not commit the murder but hired someone for it to do it . The approach and its actual story and the way it progresses also makes this a good and special Columbo movie to watch , that provides plenty of entertainment value . It also has plenty of twists and turns in it , although it of course also all remains rather predictable for most part till some extend . One that's among the better ones of the Columbo movies .
Enjoyable Columbo movie , set in a military environment .	It has a quite complicated killing plot . I mean , wouldn't an high ranking military man come up with something else and less complicated , or something better planned and thought over , if he wanted to have someone out of his way . The plan and plot is far from a waterproof one . So story or plot-wise this isn't the greatest movie around but it's still one of the more enjoyable once , thanks to its fine unusual Columbo settings and some fine performances from the two main actors . The whole premise of the movie also seemed quite ridicules to me . Why police lieutenant Columbo is send in to investigate a murder committed on a military premises . Doesn't the military itself have special people and investigators for that ? But oh well , it's a good excuse to place Columbo in a military environment this time . It's mostly due to its environment that this movie is such a great , as well as original , Columbo movie to watch . It's funny to see Columbo in this movie go with the military program and routine . It's of course quite funny and amusing to see Columbo in an environment like this , since if there is one person who seems out of place in a tough , disciplined military environment it's lieutenant Columbo . I wonder if Columbo ever served in the military , it would make a funny movie on its own probably . He does mention it but this could also easily had been one of his tricks to get people to talk . The movie is also truly being uplifted by the movie its performances . Peter Falk and Patrick McGoohan have some great moments between them and they obviously also enjoyed acting together during their sequences . They were worthy competitors and they constantly played each other . It's the first time Patrick McGoohan appears in a Columbo movie . Being a good close personal friend of Peter Falk , he appeared in 3 more Columbo movies and he even wrote , produced and directed several more Columbo movies . He plays a really fine tough role in this movie as Col . Lyle C . Rumford . It's a typical military role that nevertheless still feels fresh and original enough , due to McGoohan's acting skills . It's quite a long Columbo movie and as a matter of fact I actually think it's the longest one around . This means that the movie and its story also takes its time to set up things . This also means that there are some long sequences but luckily the movie never dulls in , thanks to the very fine performances from the two principal leads , played by Peter Falk and Patrick McGoohan . It still could had come earlier to the point though at times . It just takes a while for Columbo to forgive things out , way longer than usually ever is the case . It's the first Columbo movie from director Harvey Hart . He would directed 3 more Columbo movies from 1975 till 1976 , of which this movie is one of his better ones . It's all in all a fine and foremost enjoyable Columbo movie entry .
One of the more original Columbo movies .	Plotwise and the way the story is build up from its beginning till end , every Columbo movie is basically the same . It's the reason why most of the Columbo movies are of the same high quality . There however are a few Columbo movies that stand out . Often a Columbo movie can distinct itself from the others and the usual quality , through its directing style , plot or acting . This is a Columbo movie that knows to distinct itself through its plot . Storywise this is simply one fine movie . It on top of that is also quite original for a Columbo movie , thanks to some nice little touches that makes the story and its storytelling different from the usual Columbo formula . For instance we don't get to see the first murder being committed at all and there is not one murderer but two , of which one is the deputy police commissioner and Columbo's boss . In the long run the story isn't at all about the first murder in fact . The story on top of that has some small side-plots , which isn't something common for a Columbo movie , also due to its normal short running times . It's a story that develops nicely and has plenty of twists and surprises in it . It's the kind of script that would had also worked out for a good cop thriller movie . But it's still a typical Columbo movie alright with most of its usual ingredients . The character of Columbo himself can be seen as a real police investigator this time , interrogating and looking for clues , while in most other Columbo movies he doesn't really feel and act like a police-man but more like a noisy , smart , observing private detective , like for instance Agatha Christie's Poirot or Miss Marple . Perhaps it's true that the movie focuses more on the perpetrators than on the Columbo character , even more than usual but I see this as a part of the reason why this movie is different and more original from other Columbo movies , rather than as something that is bad about the movie . The movie also really benefits from Richard Kiley , who plays a fine role , as Columbo's main suspect . His character carries the movie for quite a large part . A movie that doesn't follow all of the usual Columbo movie rules but works out fine anyhow thanks to its well written script , that helps to make the movie one of the more original Columbo movies out there .
Interesting and style-full feminist movie .	" La Souriante Madame Beudet " is mostly interesting and a classic because of its unusual and daring theme , for its time . Back in the ' 20's women rights weren't exactly regarded as the most important or relevant things , to put it mildly . Women were often oppressed and restrained in their marriage , to mainly only household chores , as is shown in this movie about a woman who is trapped in a loveless marriage . Of course there is not much to the story , it's just purely about its theme . The movie follows the life of the husband and wife over a couple of days , in which she gets humiliated and has to do humiliating chores for her husband . She starts thinking about taking revenge but the intelligent woman is soon stricken with remorse . The movie shows the position of the woman in everyday life and it of course does so by exaggerating things to make its point . Normally we only know French movies for its perfect and romantic love stories . This is a whole different piece of cake . The movie is made in a style-full fashion , which makes the movie really interesting to watch , even for todays standards . The movie has some interesting camera positions , such as a couple of over-shoulder shots . But also the storytelling is interesting and style-full , such as in the sequences were the husband is faking emotions and in the background the mirror opens with a couple of hand-puppets playing the exact same scene , with the words ' all theater ' appearing . It makes the imaginative Germaine Dulac directing also one of the highlights of the movie . Alexandre Arquillière is brilliantly repulsive as the husband and Germaine Dermoz is great as the obviously more intelligent wife . There are a couple of more characters but the movie does a good job at concentrating mostly purely on the two main character were after all the movie and its plot is all about of course . In todays perspective , the movie is both interesting and beautiful to watch .
Classic thriller that set the standards for later movies .	Many people know the 1991 remake but very few have actually seen the original . A shame because it is worth seeing - and to be known by more . In a way " Cape Fear " seemed ahead of its time which it was not . It merely was a trend setter for later movies . The movie feels like it was made the same way as thrillers are made these days . The movie doesn't rely on scary gory scene's and violence but more on the psychological thriller elements , it is thanks to Robert Mitchum that this works very well in the movie . He manages to put - , with his character , a certain tension in the movie . The ending is a bit of a disappointing and not really tense or exciting . Another complaint is the way the dialog is delivered , it is done way too fast almost as if the actors were in an hurry , there are hardly any pauses between the sentences . The famous musical score is from Bernard Hermann whose score was later reused for the 1991 remake , 16 years after his death . But the music wasn't the only thing that was reused , also the actors Gregory Peck , Robert Mitchum and Martin Balsam reappeared in the remake . And then the question which movie is the better one ? In my humble opinion the remake is even better and more exciting . But judge for yourself which movie is the better one , both are recommendable .
Classy and good !	Basically this is just a very well made movie . It has both style and a good story , with some interesting twists and great actors in it . What gets noticed first is how incredible good and style-full the movie is looking . The cinematography , costumes and make-up are all fine looking and provide the movie with a great atmosphere , that is also suiting for the time period the movie is set in . But also the story is also fine and intriguing . At first sight the movie doesn't sound like anything too tense or spectacular ; two rivaling illusionist who literally start to battle each other . However the movie does become tense and good as the story progresses . The whole way their rivalry gets portrayed in this movie is done so well , even when it starts to take extreme and obsessed forms . You also never really get to pick sides for any of the characters . At times you're for the one and against the other but eventually both characters have their good and likable sides and their evil and unsympathetic sides . You never love them but you also most certainly don't ever hate them . And finally a movie again with a real good surprising ending ! The movie does has some predictable tendencies but eventually the elements in the movie always end up differently then you expect them to , including the ending . The movie does get unnecessarily hard to follow at times , which is due to the way of storytelling . You know , I hate it when movies use non-linear storytelling , just to look more smart . But with Christopher Nolan movie's this never really is a big issue , since he handles this always so well , with of course " Memento " as a perfectly executed example . Not every story element in the movie works out . Especially the relationship elements in the movie shows some flaws and have some unused potential . It just doesn't seem to me that portraying and using romantic relationships in movies is really Nolan's thing . Christian Bale was impressive as always . I love it how he always uses a different accent , though his way of acting always remains the same . But Hugh Jackman was also surprisingly great . I'm glad that he isn't being typecast since his first appearance as Wolverine in " X-Men " . With this movie he once more shows that he also can handle far more ' heavier ' and demanding roles . David Bowie surprisingly also shows up again in a good role . Guess it sounds weird but I really think David Bowie is one of my favorite actors . It was also fun to see Andy Serkis . Amazing , 5 years ago nobody would had ever thought about casting Andy Serkis in their movie , even though he has been active in the business since the early ' 90's . Amazing what playing Gollum did for his career . Michael Caine and Scarlett Johansson also have parts in the movie but their characters would had been just as good and interesting if they were being played by John and Jane Doe , though I like Michael Caine and Scarlett Johansson as actors and appreciate them being in this movie . Even though the movie is tense and told in a difficult way , the movie also remains a perfectly entertaining one to watch . All of the magic tricks in the movie are done well and it also gives us a look in the way magicians worked and how tricks were created and executed . I also love how they kept the movie and its tricks also always as authentic as possible . It always looks like a magic trick and never like a computer effect or anything . Something that wasn't the case to that other and definitely also lesser illusionist movie " The Illusionist " , also from 2006 . I wish there would be more movies like this .
A clever but mostly just very entertaining political satire .	Scariest thing about " Wag the Dog " is that it has a very realistic feel . Sure , there are some far fetched things but overall the movie leaves the impression like this is something that could actually happen in real life or already maybe has happened . But " Wag the Dog " is more entertaining than anything . Yes , in a way you can compare it to " Dr . Strangelove or : How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb " even though it is not as brilliant of course . The subject is treated in a very entertaining and comical way and that is what makes " Wag the Dog " a very fun movie to watch . But yet it also knows how to bring over the important political message of the movie . In that way this movie is comparable to " Dr . Strangelove or : How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb " . The main cast is very good . Robert De Niro and Dustin Hoffman are great in their second movie together ( " Sleepers " was the first which was also directed by Barry Levinson and they can now be seen together again in " Meet the Fockers " ) . It sounds weird but they really have some chemistry together . Anne Heche however at times irritated me and also isn't exactly the most talented actress I've seen . There also is a very good and entertaining supporting cast with actors such as Willie Nelson , William H . Macy , Woody Harrelson , a still very young Kirsten Dunst and Craig T . Nelson in a uncredited role as ' enemy ' Senator John Neal . Really entertaining are all of the Woody Harrelson sequence's , they are highly fun and might very well be the best parts of the movie . A very fun entertaining movie with a realistic feel ! Highly recommendable .
A bit too obvious but a well executed George Cukor thriller nevertheless .	This is rather an actual predictable and obvious thriller , that nevertheless remains a great one to watch due to its skillful execution . George Cukor isn't exactly a director who is known for his thrillers . The world knows him best as the director of comedies and drama's , as well as some well known musicals . This movie is one of the rare thrillers he made during his career . While watching this movie you have to say that it's a shame that he never directed any more thriller's throughout his career . He had the right touch for it and knew how to handle and build up its story , despite the fact that the story of this movie is being all too obvious . Basically you can already figure out the plot and ' suprises ' as soon as the movie is only a couple of minutes long . You know what is wrong with the movie and its characters and were it's all heading to . It's just all a bit too obvious and therefor the movie never really works out as surprising , though it still handles all of its ingredients , such as its build up and tension , well . It's simply a nicely crafted movie that is being told nicely . It makes " Gaslight " one of those real classy and effective ' 40's thrillers , that were quite popular at the time , not in the least thanks to Alfred Hitchock contributions to the genre during that period . Perhaps it's no coincidence that Cukor and Hitchcock later became friends . I was also really impressed by the movie its acting . Each and every actor gave away some stunning performances and Ingrid Bergman even ended up winning an Oscar for her role in this movie . It wouldn't be her last . It was also great to see the still alive Angela Lansbury making her movie debut in this movie . It's quite a big and important role and she is quite recognizable as Angela Lansbury , despite the fact that she was only a teenagers at the time of production . Simply a great ' 40's thriller , despite all of its obvious aspects .
A great early biopic about an inspiring person .	Emile Zola was besides a famous French writer , at the end of the 19th century , also a fighter for justice and freedom of speech . He often opposed the French government and military top , which made him unpopular in certain circles , while popular in others again . The movie is mostly about the Dreyfuss Affair and not as much about the person Emile Zola . This was not the first biopic ever shot and movies from around this time period normally commonly didn't focused on the actual character but more on the interesting story around him . As for the portrayal of Emile Zola in this movie , he in this movie is constantly being shown as a great and righteous man that always had his answer ready . It's almost superhuman like and therefor not also really believable but if you can look through this , this is a pretty fine movie to watch . For me it's hard to believe that this is the same guy who played tough guys in movies such as " Scarface " and " I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang " but he was just as successful and known for his character roles , such as in this movie and other movies such as " The Story of Louis Pasteur " . No wonder he also received an Oscar nomination for his role in this movie . He received in his lifetime 4 more nominations and he won one . No wonder he was one of the best and most popular actors of the ' 30's . The most impressive and powerful sequences of the movie are the ones in the courtroom , in which Emile Zola gets prosecuted for his famous ' J'Accuse . . . ! ' letter , in which he accused the French government and military of covering up that they had falsely accused army captain Alfred Dreyfus of treason and giving him a life sentence on the notorious Devil's Island , also known from the novel and movie " Papillon " . Those are some powerful and inspiring sequences , in which the freedom of speech and cry for justice are delivered effectively . It however also has as an effect that the rest of the movie , especially the beginning feels sort of obsolete . It isn't about the Dreyfus affair and concentrates more on Emile Zola's starting career as a writer . This in the long run doesn't really serve enough purpose for the movie though and it makes the first hour of the movie perhaps feel as a waste of time , which could had been spend better to the rebel Zola and his fight for justice , mainly involving the Dreyfus Affair . As a matter of fact , the movie would had probably been a better one if it simply focused on the Dreyfus Affair and the movie would had also been called " The Dreyfus Affair " , rather than " The Life of Emile Zola " , since the movie in the long run is also mostly about that and not as much as the other good and revolutionary things Zola did in his life . Besides Paul Muni , also the other actors are all great . Like many movies that are about - and are set in an European countries , the movie has an almost non-English / American cast and the cast mostly consists out of actors from across Europe . Just of course got mostly done for the movie its accent and authentic looks . Yeah , it's cheap to let ' foreigners ' portray ' foreign ' characters but it almost always works out well though . It's better than having an obvious well known and acclaimed British or American actor trying to speak in a thick foreign accent . A great early Oscar winning biopic , despite its obvious flaws with its story .
Strangely enjoyable .	Yes , this movie is surrealistic alright . Perhaps not as much as for instance a Luis Buñuel movie but it features lots of symbolism and metaphors . You have to like these sort of movies obviously to fully appreciate and enjoy it . It's of course also a protest to the very strong regime on boarding schools , which makes this movie a social commentary , like often surrealistic-like movies are . It caused Jean Vigo's movies not to be appreciated until after WW II , since prior to that his movies mostly got banned everywhere . French always had a thing with revolutions , which also plays a central theme within this movie . The movie might feel and look a bit disjointed at times but its always connected through its central themes . As odd as this movie might seem like at times , it always knows to remain an enjoyable one , with also some good comedy in it at times , as well as some great looking and directed sequences . An enjoyable little short surrealistic picture from Jean Vigo .
Richard Donner sure knows how to make an entertaining movie !	After making entertaining movies such as the " Lethal Weapon " movies , " The Goonies " and " Scrooged " , Richard Donner the man behind all those movies , brings us " Maverick " , an excellent and fun ' modern ' western with a fun story and entertaining characters played by veteran-actors who seemed to have lots of fun working on this movie . The best thing about " Maverick " is the ' fun ' feeling that this movie has . You can tell that the actors worked on this movie with lots of pleasure and fun . Mel Gibson is a wonderful and fun leading man as Bert uhmm I mean Bret Maverick . The cast is filled with many other big names such as : Jodie Foster , James Garner , Graham Greene , Alfred Molina , James Coburn , Dan Hedaya , Margot Kidder and Danny Glover in a fun cameo . The story is really strong and full with fun twists and plenty of comical situations . Yes , " Maverick " is a real fun ' no worries ' movie . Truly one of the most underrated movies .
Very impressive . . .	With lot's of violence and visual beauty , Mel Gibson tells the story about the final hours of Christ . The best thing about " The Passion of the Christ " is how powerful it is , not only in terms of emotions but also because it's visual striking . It is a beautiful and powerful movie , that feels like an old bible painting . Most powerful scene for me was the " Mary goes to Jesus " scene because of the smart cuts between past and present and the powerful music . Who could have guessed that composer John Debney would come up with such a beautiful and powerful score . He didn't seem like a very likely choice but he really surprised me in a positive way . The characters are portrayed good , I especially like the portrayal of the devil . Although I can imaging that it can be confusing for some people to understand who all the characters are and what are their relations , it took me 2 viewings to fully understand who all those characters were . No , it's not really a perfect movie . The way the story is told is not always good . At times some of the events feel very stretched out . For instance , Jesus falls about 5 times when he is carrying the cross , each of those falls are filmed very dramatically , wouldn't 2 or 3 times have been enough ? I think we all got the picture the first time that Jesus had a tough time . There are lots of other stretched out moments throughout the rest of the movie . Although not as good as I expected and certainly hoped it to be , it still left a big impression on me .
The Ringu series goes " Carrie " .	This is a quite good and interesting prequel to the Japanese Ringu series . It perhaps its not necessarily good as a part of the Ringu series but as a stand alone movie it simply is a really great one . This movie focuses on how Sadako becomes the murdering spirit . It sounds like a bad idea to give the ' monster ' a face and a backdrop story and yes , this is perhaps also why " Ringu 0 : Bâsudei " is perhaps not that great as a part of the Ringu series . This movie is also less horror like and orientated as any other movie out of the series and it focuses more on the dramatic aspects of the Sadako character . It's not her fault that she is the way she is and she actually is a cute and shy person . This sort of ruins the image of the evil Sadako spirit we know from the other Ringu movies . In that regard this movie suffers from the same problem as " Hannibal Rising " . It gives the monster a face and because of that we loose some of our respect for the character and it ruins his original image . For instance I never saw Sadako as a young adult but more as a 12 year old child or so . In this movie she is presented as a young woman . But like I said , it can't be denied that as a standalone movie this is simply a great one to watch . It's nicely directed with a good overall visual style and it has a good compelling story , that mixes drama with some more supernatural elements . You can see this movie as " Ringu " meets " Carrie " , since this movie story - and character-wise definitely show some similarities to the Brian De Palma horror classic " Carrie " , from 1976 . The movie doesn't always have a too fast pace and there is not always a lot happening within the movie . The first hour of the movie or so even feels quite redundant afterward . It isn't until very well halve way through that the movie starts to take off . It's also then that the movie its horror elements really start to kick in and the Sadako character starts to become the evil spirit we all know from the other Ringu movies . Not that the movie ever becomes truly scary but it has a nice eerie atmosphere that Japanese horror movies are so well known and liked for . So all in all , as a part of the Ringu series this movie perhaps isn't that great but as a stand alone movie it simply is a very good one .
Skilfully made realistic short film .	To put it simply , this is a really well made short film . It's only 10 minutes long , so it's obviously and notably restricted with its story development and characters but the movie does a very good job at telling the story in its limited amount of time in a very effective - and above all also realistic way . The movie is kept deliberately small , in terms of its dramatic elements and character emotions . It's the reason why the movie feels very real and warm , even despite of its depressing story and overall atmosphere . It's the main reason why I regard this movie as a very well made one . The editing still feels quite clumsy in parts . For instance the back - and forward cuts from the internal and external shots in a sequence don't always feel consistent . It feels like it's taking place in a totally different time-line and universe so to speak , even though it very well might had been all shot on the same day and on the same location . Some music in those sequences could perhaps had worked miracles . It at least would had made it more consistent . The movie also uses one or two too many fade outs right in the middle of the movie . I never have been a big fan of fade outs . To me it always seems like the cheapest , most lazy and most simple way to make a jump in time and to end a sequence . I prefer a more creative solution , though in this particular case the fade outs are sort of suiting with the film its ' slow ' pace . The cinematography on the other hand was really superb . It gave the movie a totally professional look and feeling . I especially liked the lighting in some of the sequences . Anthony Head plays a real solid role in this film . Also his presence alone is already good enough to uplift the movie . The other main part is being played by Natasha Powell . She's obviously not too experienced but her performance feels very natural because of that , which is a real positive thing . I also really liked the ending of the movie , in which nothing has changed , despite of what happened all and everything is just the same as it was before , as if nothing had ever happened . It's a real good and interesting ending of the movie that is also brought very well to the screen ; The movie ends basically just in the same way as it started out . No words are spoken but everyone know what the ending means . It makes it very effective but it however also at the same time feels quite abrupt . But I think this is more because of that the movie HAD to be below 10 minutes long . Or perhaps it's just because of it that I don't too often watch these short sort of films . The film is about as good as you could expect from a 10 minutes short . Good story development , professionally put together , with an overall good sense of realism .
Cronenberg again explores the lines between truth and fiction .	After his earlier movie " Videodrome " , which definitely shows similarities to this movie , director David Cronenberg again ventures himself in the world of virtual reality , in which truth and fiction mix . It's virtual reality taken to a whole other level . " eXistenZ " is an highly original movie that is well directed and acted out but above all very well written . The movie features a fascination and well thought out concept , which gets greatly executed by director David Cronenberg . " eXistenZ " is a movie that knows to constantly fool you . Just when you thought you figured things out , another surprise awaits around the corner . Things are never like how you think they are , especially when the line between truth and fiction gets explored . You just never really know what is the reality and what is the game-world , right till the ending . It makes the characters and events all very unpredictable and also provides the movie with a great ending that will leave you thinking even more . The movie has a perfect kind of game-play storytelling , mostly with its character appearances and its puzzling events . They have to complete a certain step or task first before they can continue in the world and find out what their purpose in the game is . The movie knows how to create a perfect balance between realism and surrealism , without ever going over-the-top with either one . The storytelling keeps the movie as simple as possible , though of course the movie isn't always that simple to follow because of its events , dialogs and unusual environments . The movie is not only just weird though . I was actually surprised to see that " Videodrome " has an higher rating on here , thought it's a far more inaccessible and ' odd ' movie . The movie is also still made entertaining and has a good fast pace . It doesn't ever allow the movie to get stuck in its more philosophical moments and deeper meanings . It also makes this movie perfectly watchable for people who normally don't watch this sort of movies . The movie is good looking , with subtle effective special effects a great visual look , that also provides the movie with a certain required ' gaming ' feeling . The movie is well cast , with Jude Law in a role you don't too often see him in , that of a shy insecure person . It once more shows how actually versatile Law as an actor is and that he is way more than just another pretty face from Hollywood . Jennifer Jason Leigh also was a great female lead . She hasn't really played ever that many big parts in big productions but with this movie she shows why she nevertheless always have been regarded as a big movie star . The movie also features some other well known actors , in much smaller roles , such as Ian Holm and Willem Dafoe . An highly original movie that is well worth watching , especially if you have seen " Videodrome " previously .
A sequel that truly surpasses the original at times .	I absolutely loved this sequel to " Ringu " . In some ways this movie is even better than " Ringu " , something that came as a real surprise to me . Compared to " Ringu " this movie is better constructed . The story itself goes more in depth , even though of course lots of things are still left unexplained , like in this type of movies almost always is the case . The story is also better told from a movie technical point of view . Most of the scenes and scares are build up very well which helps to make this an unforgettable horror movie . Unfortunately the movie is also filled with some ' silly ' moments and at times poor acting skills which really brings down the level of this movie . It all makes " Ringu 2 " a great but not excellent movie . Almost every surviving and death characters from the first movie returns in this movie . This time the main part is played by Miki Nakatani , who in " Ringu " had a smaller role . Many characters who had a small role in " Ringu " play a big one in " Ringu 2 " and vice versa . Miki Nakatani who plays Mai Takano isn't really a as good character like Reiko Asakawa from the original was however . That is one of the few things in which " Ringu 2 " isn't better with than the original . The atmosphere is simply delicious . It's typically horror like , meaning that's dark and creepy . It helps to provide some good scare moments . Another thing I loved about the movie was the musical score by Kenji Kawai . It sounded like one of those old Nintentdo games but I loved it and it suited the movie and its atmosphere perfectly . The movie does have it silly moments , especially towards the ending and the characters aren't as good as in the original but still " Ringu 2 " is a great scary horror movie that is well constructed and from a technical point of view is even better than the original .
A movie that shows that there is a dark side in everyone of us .	Even though some of the events feel rather far fetched the movie still knows how to perfectly capture a certain amount of realism also thanks to the solid acting performances . The movie feels realistic because it is about every day characters and the movie shows how one mistake can ruin lives and release the dark side out of an every normal day person . The movie knows how to perfectly capture all of these emotions and makes us feel for the characters even though we might not all agree with their actions . What makes " House of Sand and Fog " also better than the average movie is that you can see it had been made with lot's of profession . I'm not only talking about the acting but also the directing and cinematography that is absolutely beautiful . Both cinematic and artistic a successful movie . Ben Kingsley really is superb but really , so is the rest of the cast . Really worthy of all the Oscar nominations . A nearly perfect dramatic movie with strong characters and also strong solid acting by the main cast .
The power of the movie is in its professionalism .	This is the best mix of beer and blood I have ever tasted . " Shaun of the Dead " has some great comical moments and yet it has been made with lots of professionalism like this was a serious gory horror movie they were making . Because of this , through its seriousness , the movie becomes perhaps even more hilarious and really delivers . Both the fans of the ( British ) comedy-genre and the fans of mainly ' Zombie ' movies and other gory horror-movies , will be entertained by this movie . Visually the movie is really good looking . Its not like many other British movies and has a good looking use of cinematography and lighting . The gore , make-up and visual effects are extremely good and are even something that I haven't even seen in ' serious ' Zombie / horror flicks . You might think that this movie is just mainly a spoof of " Dawn of the Dead " ( 1978 ) but its really more than that . The movie is good and creates a good story on its own so that it becomes more than just a simple spoof . All of the characters are well written and are funny in their own way . The acting is good for comedy standards and the actors perfectly know how to play in both hilarious / funny scene's as well as in serious / emotional one's . Plus of course it has the wonderful Bill Nighy playing a role in it . This guy really is a terrific actor that always is at his best in comical roles like he plays in this movie . Basically this is a very good looking and professionally made movie that also is funny and hilarious at moments . I can't see how anyone could not like this movie .
Complex but ultimately rewarding movie that deliverers .	No doubt that " Syriana " is a difficult movie to watch . You have to keep paying attention at every moment in the movie if you don't want to lose track of things . But those who have the patience and will to keep watching this movie will be rewarded with a thought provoking and effective movie that will leave you thinking afterward . Best thing about this movie is that it basically follows four different plot lines and characters but it really doesn't feel like four separate and different stories at all . The movie feels as a complete whole and is consistent during its entire running time . All the stories have one thing in common , they are more or less about one and the same subject ; oil . This might be the reason why the movie feels like one . The movie is called " Traffic " - ' light ' for a good reason . It's made in the same style and terms of realistic storytelling - and character treatment . No wonder , the movie is directed by Stephen Gaghan who wrote " Traffic " and one of the executive producers on this movie is Steven Soderbergh , who directed " Traffic " . It sort of sounds strange to call this movie a ' light ' version of " Traffic " , since this movie in my opinion is far more complex ( even though it focuses on far less character and plot lines ) and focuses on a even more difficult and delicate subject . " Traffic " taught us that the war on drugs can't be won , " Syriana " shows us that the lust for oil can never be stopped and the movie shows the direct consequences of it . The movie is about the Western and mostly American corruption and naivety . The movie shows how this affects the Middle-East and its population and how that more or less directly hits back at the Western world . It's a sort of vicious circle . We want more and more oil for lower prices but we eventually pay a far higher price than just money for it . Kudos to Stephen Gaghan and the rest of the cast & crew to have to guts to make such a politically sensitive but relevant movie . The movie gets carried by its excellently playing cast . This probably the best role of George Clooney I have ever seen him in . He deserved his Oscar for this movie , even though his role was far smaller than I expected . Matt Damon might be a bit out of place in this movie . I don't regard him as ' mature ' enough yet to play such heavy and serious roles . I would had preferred an older or a totally unknown actor for his role . Among the supporting cast are Christopher Plummer , Amanda Peet , the always great Chris Cooper , William Hurt and Tim Blake Nelson . Not all of their roles seem relevant enough but nevertheless their presence still adds to the class of this movie . A sort of an essential movie to watch , at least if you're open for a complex but confronting and direct movie , about a sensitive and not much lighted subject .
A hard weekend in town .	This movie can be interpreted and viewed in many different ways . Most people praise the movie for its father-son relationship in it but to me the movie was an adventure through town , in which the main character encounters the many different social layers of post-war Italy . after his bicycle got stolen and he spends the entire weekend looking back for it , since he needs th bicycle or else he'll loose his new job . It basically is a great and honest portrayal of life in post-war Italy for a common man , who tries hard to find and eventually keep his job , to support himself and his family . It's not a movie that tries to bloom things or follows the usual standard common rules of cinema . It's an early neorealistic movie , in which director Vittorio De Sica used only amateurs to give a realistic and honest portrayal of life . It's a great social and character study . Through his travels through town he visits all kinds of places and meets people from the different society layers . A great study of post-war Italy . The main character himself also isn't without his flaws , which can also be seen back in the father-son relationship within the movie . It's a real honest and straight-forward movie that also shows how far some people are willing to go to get what they want . A great character study . But yes I do agree that the movie is perhaps a tad bit too overrated . Sure it's great and appreciate all the movie tried to achieve but it also isn't an easy movie to watch , due to the low pace and just not being interesting enough at times . It still rate this movie high but I don't think I agree that this movie is deserving his spot in all of the top movie-list and also don't really consider this to be an absolute must-see or classic . Having said that " Ladri di biciclette " is just a great movie . To be honest I was surprised that it got made with amateurs and some sequences were also obviously improvised on the spot . The movie really doesn't look and feel as if it mostly involved amateurs and this also really goes for the acting within the movie . Even though it perhaps is not the must-see , or influential movie , everyone wants to make you believe it is , it still is one great unique movie which most certainly is worth watching .
A refreshingly original horror movie .	In the ' 90's the Scream trilogy meant the revival of the horror genre and teen-horror in particular . After that lots of horror movie were created that all were very much alike and of average ( at best ) quality . " Final Destination " however is one fine exception and it distinct itself from other genre movies through its originality . I consider " Final Destination " to be one of the most refreshing and original horror movies of this decade . It's not a horror movie with monsters or scary serial killers . It's a movie with an invisible villain ; death itself , which is determined to kill everyone that escaped his clutches . It's a great and original concept that is executed even better as expected . The fact that the ' villain ' is invisible provides the movie with some moments that makes this movie distinct itself from any other movie out of the same genre . Reason why this movie was even better than I anticipated were the deaths in this movie . Every death in the movie is highly complex and wonderfully constructed and executed . You know something bad is going to happen but you never know how and when . Therefor the deaths and way of death all still come as a surprise . It makes the movie very tense and also both scary and gory to watch at times . The movie starts of with a spectacular ( but still obviously ' low ' budget ) plane crash . Fortunately after its beginning the movie doesn't loose any of its pace and the movie mostly remains spectacular to watch throughout its running time , which is only 98 minutes short . All of the actors are obvious B-movie material , which is fine and works out really well for a genre movie like this one . Don't get me wrong , the acting is not bad but none of the actors will win any big award , or star in a blockbuster any time soon . Fine exception , I must admit , perhaps was Seann William Scott who plays a fun role and perhaps shows his very best acting skills yet , in this movie . The movie has some awkward moments and some weak dialog and character treatment at times but thankfully it doesn't really make the movie any less entertaining or good to watch . An highly recommendable , refreshingly original horror flick that surpasses almost every other horror movie of this decade , so far .
Great piece of film making . Very stylish !	Don't expect a crappy little amateur film . " Batman : Dead End " puts some of the superhero movies made these days till shame . The style and atmosphere is even darker and more sinister then in the 2 Tim Burton Batman movies . You can say that " Batman : Dead End " is a more daring movie . The movie shows how the makers can handle several styles and it's the crew that really deserves credit . Everything works perfect especially the cinematography . But let's not forget the cast . Clark Bartram is actually a very convincing Batman ( Better then Val Kilmer and George Clooney anyway ) and Andrew Koenig is the perfect Joker his character is actually much more different then from the original movie in a good way . The character is more sinister and psychotic in a scary way instead of an entertaining . The characters are much more closer then the ones from the comic books . Sure the story is just beyond silly but that's not the point , the crew really showed how they can handle different moments and styles . This little film is filled with wonderful little moments and is a shear pleasure to watch . Awesome fights , great make-up , wonderful costumes , excellent directing , great cast , most excellent cinematography and a great and daring atmosphere and style , what is there not to like ?
Original as well as surprisingly effective horror / comedy .	What this movie does very well , and what it is so well known for , is the fact that it perfect blends the comedy with its horror , without letting the one element weaken the other . Because for instance in lot of other horror / comedies , the comedy really weakens the horror . It makes them ineffective as scary and gory ones but this really isn't the case with " An American Werewolf in London " . Perhaps this is because the comedy within this movie is more subtle and B-movie like . The movie doesn't take itself too seriously which allows the movie its comedy to work out so effective and subtle . John Landis obviously made the movie deliberately B-movie like in parts , especially by picking not the best actors and by not giving them the best dialog imaginable . It on top of that features some great typical B-movie like moments , which perhaps is only truly notable for the genre fans and most other people will probably write it off as lame and simplistic . Just because the movie features humor and has B-movie elements in it doesn't mean that this movie is ineffective as an horror movie . In that genre this movie also really stands out . It does this by featuring some great imaginative and gory looking sequences . but it also does this not in the least with its make-up effects . Especially the dream sequences within the movie are quite memorable . This movie was actually the first to receive and Oscar for its make-up . Before this , best make-up wasn't even a category at the Oscar's , believe it or not . But thanks to this movie the academy realized that this was a profession to take seriously and to include in the award ceremony . The award of course went to legendary make-up artist Rick Baker . It was the first out of 6 Oscar's he has so far received during his career . The movie is actually surprisingly gory . It's just not something you would expect from an horror / comedy but this movie is basically just as gory , if not gorier , than most other ' serious ' genre movies . Director John Landis actually now days is surprised how gory this movie actually is when he looks back at it . Of course the movie doesn't feature a too complicated plot ( luckily so ) but it nevertheless know to pick an original approach with its story and all . It doesn't feature an usual werewolf plot in which the victim is battling his transformation during full moon and is plotting to kill the werewolf that bite him in order to lift the curse . I won't tell what the actual plot of the movie is , since it will probably spoil to much but fact is that it's original , which also means that the movie doesn't end in a typical ' Hollywood-way ' . When watching this movie it actually becomes more painfully obvious how bad its sequel " An American Werewolf in Paris " , which got made 16 years ( ! ) after this movie , actually is . It tries to achieve the same thing as this movie , by picking the same type of approach but in moments like that it becomes obvious that directing is a real important job and that some directors are simply more talented than others . Anthony Waller just obviously ain't no John Landis ! John Landis would also later impress with the legendary Michael Jackson video-clip for the hit song ' Thriller ' . The special make-up effects again came from Rick Baker . The clip definitely shows similarities to this movie in especially its style . A great as well as enjoyable unique werewolf movie !
Surprisingly good and entertaining .	I'll admit that I was never to excited about seeing this movie . The trailers and advertising campaign didn't impressed me and the movie to me seemed like a overblown action / science-fiction blockbusters . I'm glad I watched it nevertheless , the movie wasn't exactly subtle or deep but it certainly was entertaining and had a solid story . Yes , this movie truly is solid entertainment . It has some good and original action sequences and the special effects are superb . Especially the robots look both splendid and impressive and are a perfect mixture of an humane and a robot-look . Also the sets and the movie its futuristic look deserve credit in this movie . Let's face is , Will Smith isn't as hot as an actor as he used to be . Yes , sure he still makes box offices successes like " Hitch " but he is not the action movie star that he used to be in the ' 90's . With " I , Robot " Smith however still shows that he has still got it in him and he portrays a likable main action hero character and also manages to put some humor in some of the scene's . Bridget Moynahan however wasn't a great casting choice , yes she has played in quite some successful movies already but I'm convinced of it that this is an actress that will be totally forgotten in about ten years from now . She doesn't make a lasting impression in this movie and the other movies I have seen her in . The movie could had been just as deep and thought-provoking as for instance the other science-fiction movie , that shows some parallels with this movie , " Minority Report " but this movie chooses to be entertaining instead . And in entertaining it does not fail . The movie is both spectacular and tense to watch , which is also thanks to the plot twists in the movie . It all makes " I , Robot " a science-fiction / action spectacle that I put now on the list , as one of the must sees of
Overlooked movie .	This is a great little powerful overlooked 2006 movie . It's sometimes unfair and unbelievable that this happens but every year there are these types of movies that are great ones and seem like big award worthy ones , but no one has ever heard of . No I'll admit that this is not exactly THE greatest one in its genre and it still has its flaws but nevertheless it seems unfair that this movie was almost completely overlooked at the time of its release . It's definitely true that the movie its impressive cast makes this movie a better and also more interesting one to watch . I don't think there would have been any other reason for me to ever decide to watch this movie . The movie features three really solid main performance . Not just Alan Rickman and Sigourney Weaver but also really surprisingly enough Carrie-Anne Moss is excellent in the movie . You perhaps would expect Alan Rickman to steal the movie but this is really not the case . Sigourney Weaver also gives a fine memorable performance as an autistic person . These type of performances are normally ones that will get you nominated for an Oscar but this movie was overlooked by most of the big award shows , as well as most cinemas . Don't expect to see a movie about autism though . It's just an element within the movie . It's mostly just about life with realistic events and emotions , even though perhaps on paper it doesn't seem like this . It had all the elements in it to really go over-the-top and become an over sentimental ambitious one but the movie never really pushes its dramatic elements overly through , which is of course a good and positive thing . It makes the movie more credible and it allows the story to tell itself without forcing things . This strengthens the characters and dramatic aspects . Luckily the movie at times also features some relieving comedy , that is used in the right places and doesn't ever completely take over the whole movie . A nice little honest feeling dramatic movie with all the right intentions .
Tribute to a bad man .	For a movie with such a lame and sappy title , this is surely a great one . The movie is actually quite different from what you might expect . It's a strong drama that gives an insight view of the Hollywood business behind the camera's . Movie buffs will be surely able to recognize some situations , characters and movies feature within this movie . A lot of this movie seems to be based on actual persons and events , although it of course gets all so mixed in with each other a lot , so it all still works out as original as it can get . It besides gives us a great inside view of how movie-making in the ' 40's / ' 50's was done . The movie can be seen as one that goes behind the scenes , that shows how actors , producers , writer , directors and studio bosses all interact and quarrel with each other and how eventually a movie gets established . But what foremost makes " The Bad and the Beautiful " such a fine and original movie is its story-telling . Basically the movie has 4 different story-lines , which each featuring a different character . What they all have in common is that they once got cheated on by movie producer Jonathan Shields , played by Kirk Douglas . The stories are being told in flashback mode and in between it cuts to the ' present ' time , in which the three cheated on persons are being asked to revive the career of the tough Jonathan Shields . So you could say that this movie is four for the price of one ! Each storyline is one on its own , featuring new events and characters . Nevertheless the movie never starts to feel messy or overfilled . This is of course due to the presence of the Kirk Douglas character but also really thanks to its well balanced writing . The movie also won an Oscar for its screenplay . It won four more Oscar's and it also was nominated for another one . Strangely enough the movie did not receive a nomination in the best picture of best director category . It's the movie that still holds the record for most Academy Awards won by a film not nominated for best picture . The movie is really being carried by Kirk Douglas , who gives away a fine performance . In all fairness , he is a guy that mostly has done some great stuff in the ' 50's and early ' 60's , which however just weren't exactly the ' golden age ' of cinema . After that he hasn't starred in any real memorable movies and he now days is better known as the father of the successful actor Michael Douglas ( although his career is also already declining in these recent years ) . So he himself never have really been a that great star , which I think has more to do with the fact that he began rather late with acting in movies . Had he begun his career in the ' 30's and early ' 40's , he would had played surely much more great roles during his career and he himself would be better known and appreciated as an actor now days . In this movie he might very well play the best role out of his career . He plays a tough and rotten character but at the same time with a real charming touch to it . Also the other actors within this movie know to impress . The movie has a great cast , with Lana Turner , Walter Pidgeon and Dick Powell , among others . But in my opinion also a lot of credit need to go to director Vincente Minnelli for the acting performances within this movie . The movie feels old fashioned and modern at the same time . It's a movie that is mostly done in ' 40's style and this is also probably the reason why it got shot in black & white . It on the other hand is also really modern with its story , which must also had been quite daring for its time . What happens behind the scenes stays behind the scenes , would had most likely been the general thought of Hollywood at the time . This movie simply ignores this and gives an original and nice look from the other side of the cameras . A great movie , worth watching !
The grand escape .	Of course this movie is being called the French version of " The Great Escape " . Not because it has a similar plot , settings or main characters ( on the contrary , since this movie is actually set during WW I ) but because " The Great Escape " is about the ultimate movie within its genre , to which every other prison camp movie gets compared , no matter if the were made prior or after " The Great Escape " . It's a fine movie , that is directed by well known and acclaimed French director Jean Renoir . The directing is really superb for the movie . Every shot gets skillfully directed , often with lots of eye for detail . Yes , it perhaps is foremost the directing and its storytelling which makes " La Grande illusion " such a fine movie to watch . But is it me , or is the second halve of this movie much weaker than its first ? From the moment on when the main characters are being placed in the other camp / fortress the movie and it story sort of starts to get weaker , since the story and its main characters are being placed out of the environment that worked out so well for the first halve of the movie . Can't really say why but the movie just became a bit less interesting and was a bit dragging in parts . In the first halve the movie didn't really need a story , since it simply showed the war situations as the they were . Perhaps you should see it as a build up for the second halve of the movie , in which the characters are established and a main clear plot line is more clearly present . The movie doesn't feature very well known actors ( unless you're into French cinema of the first halve of the 20th century ) but this works out well for the movie and its progress . It offers some surprises with its story and characters . The only well known actor of the movie is Erich von Stroheim and he indeed is a great actor and also shows that in this movie with his really great role but his German as well as his French accent sounded a bit off , probably due to the fact that he went to the States , early on in his life . This is a small but notable point of critique of an otherwise fine performance , that should had probably earned him an Oscar nomination . The movie did receive an Oscar nomination for best motion picture of the year , which is obviously a big accomplishment for a foreign language movie . It also should be noted though that " La Grande illusion " in its year was nominated along with 9 ( ! ) other movies for the award . It's a movie that uses nice and realistic looking settings and costumes . Hollywood movies from the same time period also tend to look a bit cheap , with its often fake looking backgrounds and cardboard sets . A solid French war movie , without the war , from director Jean Renoir .
Great and works much better than you perhaps would think .	Although this movie is obviously aimed toward children with its story and characters , adults shall also be drawn into the movie and its story . Sweet likable characters , an adventurous story . Really , what is there not to like about this movie ? It's a Japanse animated movie , based on the TV-series " Moomin " . The animation style is typically Japanse and so are all of the characters . So the fans of the genre shall surely not be disappointed by this movie . You don't really must have watched an episode of " Moomin " before watching this movie . It's a story on its own and can be watched separately from the TV-series . The story is simple and it purely relies on its characters and adventurous , though formulaic , elements of the movie . No , the movie doesn't ever surprises at any point but yet the story works out , thanks to its pace and storytelling and really likable characters . It also still has its great and unique moments , such as the part when the comet is about to hit the Earth , which is done surprisingly tense and provides the movie with a good finale . The movie is greatly fun and humorous and makes sure that it never becomes too serious and therefor never really too scary for to watch for young children . It perhaps sometimes goes at the expense of the movie its tension and predictability but so be it . Doesn't matter if you're a child or adult , this movie is a great one to watch !
A ' modern ' western made great by its performances .	" Open Range " is a slow western with little to no story . Yet the movie knows how to keep your attention thanks to the wonderful performances by the cast . Robert Duvall really is wonderful and even for the most hardened Kevin Costner hater this movie is watchable . Costner pulls of surprisingly well and is believable in his role . Michael Gambon is the perfect rotten villain and Diego Luna truly is a name for the future . The young Mexican actor already was in big movies like " Frida " , " The Terminal " and the leading man in " Dirty Dancing : Havana Nights " . Sad thing is that the deceased Michael Jeter makes his last movie appearance in this movie . He was a great actor that will be truly missed . Visually this is a beautiful movie and it has a great atmosphere that also in a way is original compared to other western movies . Some of the cinematography however is ' pointless ' ( when you've see the movie , you know what I mean , I hope . ) . James Muro is a beginning cinematographer that normally works as camera and / or steadicam operator on big Hollywood hits . A name to look out for in the future ? Perhaps . . . Michael Kamen delivers a worthy , one of his last musical scores . The stereotypical shootout at the ending was truly wow ! It's easily one of the best movie shootouts I've seen in the last couple of years . It also might very well be the most realistic western shootout ever made . The guns , the sounds , the blood ! Truly impressive and memorable . The movie has all the typical western clichés present but the way it all is handled is truly original and professional and that all combined with the acting is what makes " Open Range " a very good and memorable ' modern ' western .
A rare clever and well made ' 70's science-fiction movie .	" Soylent Green " is science-fiction but it's the more realistic type of science-fiction . So it's a movie set on Earth , rather than in space and it's set in the future but not a further of high tech gadgets but a future in which the whole world has basically gone to hell . " Soylent Green " might very well feature one of the most depressing portrayals of the near future . Earth is being overpopulated and there is a serious food shortage . On top of the the greenhouse effect has kicked in and the worlds temperature has risen some degrees . Electricity and running water are rare , so in other words , there's a shortage in basically everything we are so accustomed to . Life goes on but just not as it used to . " Soylent Green " is not just a science-fiction movie but perhaps even more a cop movie , in which New York cop Robert Thorn , played by Charlton Heston , starts to investigate a murder on an corporate official of the Soylent company , the company that provides the world with it's mysterious new green food . As for the ' big twist ' of the movie , without spoiling anything . . . The entire movie builds up to it and it becomes apparent from basically the first minute that this movie is going to have a twist in its story . Personally , the wasn't the powerful or shocking twist I had hoped for . Perhaps in a subconscious way it even was a bit predictable . Even though the twist is not weak and is definitely still good enough , it's just not the stuff featured in an early M . Night Shyamalan , to give an example . This movie made me realize that Charlton Heston was actually one of the earliest kings of science-fiction . In the late ' 60's and ' 70's science-fiction really wasn't a popular much watched genre . It certainly always wasn't the most respected genre to star in as an actor . Nevertheless Charlton Heston did this , despite getting more than enough movie offers to star in different movies , in more popular and higher respected genres . I guess he must had had some love for the genre , or perhaps it was because of the success and experience of working on " Planet of the Apes " . He starred in some real great and significant genre movies in the ' 60's and ' 70's , of which this movie is also really one of them . Even though this movie is not as well known - it still can be called the " Blade Runner " of the ' 70's . It's clever and realistic enough and not afraid to show a depressing near future , with rotten and corrupt characters in it . I's a movie that's great in its details and little things , rather than really with its main plot-line or such . Of course the movie is also made great by it's performances . Charlton Heston got really great cast in his role and he's obviously in his element . It was also really great to see Edward G . Robinson in this . He was one of the greatest actors of the ' 40's and ' 30's , mostly playing tough gangster roles . He had to star in lots of crap after that in order to remain active in the business but it was great that he could end his career with a movie such as this one . He died days after he finished shooting on this movie . He was already seriously ill at the time of production and it was apparent that he had not long to life . Having never received even an Academy Award or even nomination for any of his great roles , he received posthumously an honorary award for his entire career in 1973 . This movie was a role worthy last role for him and the movie features some great sequences , involving his character . Despite not being a special effects laden science-fiction movie , it's still a great looking one , with its costume design , sets and overall atmosphere . Some of the things still look futuristic , while others look as time hadn't stopped since the ' 70's . So it's an overall really great and original look that the movie has over it . It's a futuristic movie with an ' 70's atmosphere over it , what is there not to like ? Great ' 70's science-fiction !
Good character movie .	I definitely learned more about Ray Charles ' life and career , from this movie . Ray Charles - and his music were obviously not from my generation . So I basically knew nothing about him and his career , prior to this movie , simply because I wasn't much interested in him and his music to be frank . The movie is interesting , mostly also because of the time period it was set in . The ' 50's and ' 60's were a pretty interesting time period when it comes down to the evolution of music but also the emancipation of black people in America . Two themes of course also featured in " Ray " . The movie keeps a good balance between Ray's career and his personal life . It makes the movie also perfectly watchable for his non-fans , like myself . The movie features lots of elements and story lines . It has drama in it but the movie is also entertaining to watch . Ray Charles definitely had a turbulent life and career . It keeps the movie itself also always interesting to follow , though some elements are rushed a bit too hard in the story . An entire career is of course a lot to put in a 2 and an halve hour movie and I also feel that the movie should had left some things out regarding its story to keep the movie its flow better and the story more effective and powerful . But really what am I complaining . The movie was already good as it was now . It's definitely a better movie that 80 % of the biopics released this day . It also is for a big part due to the fine directing from Taylor Hackford that the movie worked out as good as it did . Hackford tells the story with both style and substance , making the movie beautiful to look at and also interesting to follow . The movie often annoyingly and unnecessary switches randomly back and forth in time , from Ray's ' present ' life of that time and his early childhood . Only toward the ending of the movie this approach becomes relevant and effective . It perhaps is the biggest and the only real flaw in the storytelling of the movie . Visually the movie is really great , with some effective and nice looking camera-work and moody sets and costumes that help to capture the time period the movie is set in . Especially the towns and cities the movie gets set in at times , look impressive . Jamie Foxx might not look much like Ray Charles but in his mimics he perfectly . It helps him to become very convincing in his role and I guess that his Oscar was in place . The rest of the movie is filled with a whole bunch of character , which definitely becomes a bit too much at times . Halve of the characters we don't ever really get to know , or what they do . It makes some of the side-plots work out not as powerful as they could had . Besides Jamie Foxx , the movie also features some other great actors such as Regina King , Terrence Howard , Rick Gomez and Warwick Davis . The ending feels a bit raffled , as if they were saying Hey the movie is 2 and a halve hours long now , lets put an end to it . But yet the movie covers that needed to be covered , so I tend to forgive them for that . A good character movie . You don't have to be a fan of Ray Charles or his music to like this movie .
A well made and beautiful looking drama .	This is a Russian drama made in the same minimalistic style as some of the best Scandinavian dramas . It's a slow moving movie with a realistic approach of both the story and characters . It makes the movie and its emotions and characters all feel real . With an approach like this and the right director at the helm , you don't really need much else to make a great movie . Andrei Zvyagintsev seems like a great talent and I look forward to seeing more movies by him . The story and the premise is actually quite simple but the execution of it gives the story some deeper emotional - and also realistic layers and makes the story come across way more interesting and intriguing than it is on paper . The movie is also definitely helped by its natural performances from the actors . Especially the two kids in the movie Vladimir Garin and Ivan Dobronravov are great and are the core of the movie . Everything involves around them and they carry their roles with great responsibilities in a real great way and with devotion to the characters . The movie is not only well directed and acted out , it also is beautiful looking . It shows that Russia also has some beautiful looking landscapes and nature . The movie is real eye candy to look at at times and almost looks like a painting . It's definitely true that the movie is not always interesting and the movie does has its slower moments . Some of the sequences last too long and don't add enough to the story but for a movie like this that is always sort of unavoidable . Guess you have to be a sort of genre fan to fully appreciate this movie but basically everybody should be able to appreciate the beauty and overall greatness of this ' simple little ' movie . Let's hope more movies like this one from Russia will be made and given a global release .
The never-ending quest for food .	This is not fully a documentary , since Robert J . Flaherty had to forcefully put in some staged elements . Also the characters in the movie did not really lived that way as seen in this movie and they weren't even related in fact , just put together for this movie . Nevertheless the movie still gives a interesting and detailed look into the lives of the Inuit people . You also have to watch this movie in perspective , back in 1922 , really nobody was really familiar with how people lived on the Artic . In that regard " Nanook of the North " is a really insightful and interesting movie for its time , that I bet was watched with great interested at the time of its release . It's of course not the earliest ' documentary ' , since in the early days of cinema , the medium was almost entirely purely used for documenting events , such as the building of a skyscraper . But this however without doubt is one of the earliest - if not earliest , full length featured ' documentary ' . All the more reason why the movie is a sort of significant and essential movie . The movie concentrates on a family of Eskimo's ( Inuit ) and their everyday live . Basically their entire life is about one thing ; finding food for the day , for survival . Everything they do evolves around food . Quite ironic actually that months after this movie was finished Nanook ( Allakariallal ) died of starvation . The movie flows well and features some interesting sequences . It's actually hard to believe that they really followed the family for a year , since the eventual end result looks like it also could had been shot in one month or even less . The movie concentrates on the most interesting aspects of their life , though I definitely wouldn't want to trade with them . The movie is very well put together and since it's a silent movie , it allows its images to tell the entire story . It in a way certainly makes this movie all the more powerful and effective to watch . the landscapes are dull and cold but in this movie they're made to look as lively and warm . Despite that it's over 80 years old already , the movie is still perfectly good and informative to watch .
An original comedy with Eddie Murphy in top-form .	" Coming to America " has got to be one of my personal most watched comedies . I just always loved watching this movie . It has got a great and original story and some great characters in it , played by some good comical talents . Best decade for Eddie Murphy were without doubt the ' 80's . He was original and fresh back then and he made some great other movies such as " 48 Hrs . " and " Beverly Hills Cop " . His comical talent shined truly the most back then . In this movie he also is in top-form , with his eternal wide smile on his face . He plays his character with lots of originality and humor . Beside the main part , Murphy also plays some other characters in the movie . Due to the Rick Baker special make-up , he is completely unrecognizable in his other roles . The supporting cast of the movie is also really solid . Arsenio Hall is really great and funny in his role and he has some excellent sense of timing . Whatever went wrong with his acting-career ? James Earl Jones is also truly unforgettable as the king . Other strong roles are being portrayed by ; John Amos , Madge Sinclair and Eriq La Salle . Samuel L . Jackson also shows up in one of his very first movie-roles . It might sound cliché now but his talent already really shined in the one very short scene that he is in . He really made a great strong and lasting impression . Another well known actor that shows up in his very first movie-roles in this movie is Cuba Gooding Jr . . It are really the characters and the actors that portray them that make this movie a bit of a classic one . It's a great comedy with some great humorous sequences in it and with a fun " Trading Places " - , another John Landis and Eddie Murphy movie , reference in it as well . This is an excellent fresh original comedy to watch , mainly due to Eddie Murphy who really was in top-form . Even if you're not too fond of ' 80's comedies in general , this is a perfectly watchable and recommendable movie .
Way too old fashioned but still better than the first , due to its more dark story .	The movie " Ivan Groznyy I " from 1944 was already made in a terribly outdated style , even for its era . " Ivan Groznyy II : Boyarsky zagovor " is no different . Sergei M . Eisenstein's style of featuring long stares and extreme close-ups worked out extremely well and effective for his silent movies but in ' talkies ' it only slows the movie down . Sure it's fine and artistically impressive looking all but it's not halve as effective as would be the case with a silent movie . Even though this movie got released 14 years after the previous movie " Ivan Groznyy I " , it still got shot at the same time as the first movie . Reason why it got released so much later was because Stalin banned it because he wasn't too happy about the portrayal of Czar Ivan IV in this movie , who's more dark side is shown and besides shows a more crazy side of him , as he slowly slides into madness . Guess we should be lucky that this movie still exists today and that it didn't got completely destroyed during Stalin's reign . Because of the fact that the movie its story and main character are much darker , the movie becomes also more interesting to watch , when comparing it to the first movie . It's darker approach also makes its old fashioned style of film-making more tolerable . It suits its story better , even though its still far from ideal . I just can't imaging people still liked watching this in 1958 , no matter how great and big Eisenstein was , who had died 10 years prior to the release of this movie . It's an interesting watch for those interested in history and for the fans of Eisenstein's work . It would had been interesting to see part III being completed but Stalin halted production and showed destroyed most of the already shot footage , since the movie once more didn't showed Ivan to his own liking and the movie was supposedly also a protest against Stalin own current regime , that showed some parallels to the tyrant methods of Ivan the terrible , as got portrayed in that movie . Already an outdated movie during the time of its production but still an artistically interesting movie to watch , that works out better than the first movie .
Good dark fun .	" Corpse Bride " is a typical dark Tim Burton movie , that does not disappoint - , with lots of crazy characters and an unusual dark Gothic atmosphere . It's a movie that amuses and entertains , despite the fact that the movie does have its obvious flaws . The story itself for the movie is pretty simple but it serves it purpose . After all , it's not the story that makes this movie , it are its characters and the unusual settings of the movie . This movie is definitely a case of style over substance but what a style this movie has . Visually the movie looks really impresses and it's amazing to see how much the stop-motion effects have improved even more , since " The Nightmare Before Christmas " . What really is the best about this movie are the looks of the characters . First of all they all look crazy and weird and they are all beautifully crafted and created . The movie can perhaps best be described as a mix between " The Nightmare Before Christmas " and " Sleepy Hollow " . It has the settings and atmosphere of " Sleepy Hollow " and the crazy silly characters from " The Nightmare Before Christmas " . Fans of those other two previous Tim Burton movie will therefor not be disappointed by this movie . In my opinion this movie is even better than those two other earlier Burton movies . The characters do not only look great and weird but they also are perfectly voiced by its actors . This time Burton uses lot's of well known actors to voice the characters of the movie . Helena Bonham Carter is perfect and Albert Finney and Christopher Lee are also perfectly cast . Especially Lee is hilarious due to the seriousness he voices his character with . Other well known actors who provided their voices for this movie are Johnny Depp , Emily Watson , Michael Gough , the fantastic Deep Roy and Danny Elfman . The movie has some good music , that might not be that good on its own but it suites the movie its story and atmosphere well . So good job Danny Elfman ! The movie entertains well and it has some great and hilarious sequences in it . The humor is quite morbid and black , after all the movie features lots of corpses and other death related elements . Leave it up to Tim Burton to create some good dark humor without ever really going over-the-top with it . The story might have some holes in it and it all is terribly simple and the ending might feel rushed and abrupt but it all in no way does make the movie any less enjoyable or entertaining to watch . This movie does not disappoint and it entertains well !
Surpassed my expectations .	This always looked like a good movie but I was afraid it would a difficult one and one that would be not always easy to follow . A typical movie that would also be full of itself and would try and look smarter and extra complicated than really necessary . I'll admit that in the beginning it also looked that way , when it kept jumping back and forth between past and present time . It made it hard to always understand what was going on and who all those characters were . But about halve an hour through the movie it got better and more understandable to follow , since it also becomes slowly obvious that the leaps in time were put in for story purposes and in the end were also actually essential for the movie . The movie is still an hard one to follow at certain points , which is mostly due to the many characters and names appearing in the movie . It gets all the more complicated when it seems that not all characters are who they say they are . The movie is especially difficult if you don't know at forehand what it is about . It doesn't become obvious in the movie until late that it's about the founding of the CIA . The movie its story didn't seemed to be the most interesting or intriguing ( At first I was like ; Oh no ! Not another movie about the cold war ! ) one to follow but the movie makes some interesting and great choices , that always keep the movie intriguing , mysterious and in parts even tense . Thank the writer and director for that ! It seems to me that the movie was deliberately kept small . They could had easily overblown things , especially with this sort of cast but every character and role in the movie is as big as needed and the movie does not have the usually typical thriller elements or other action spy-movie elements , though the movie in essence of course still is a spy-movie . The fact that the movie wasn't made as big was probably also a reason why this movie was a pleasant one to watch . The cast is great . Robert De Niro obviously had no difficulties with getting some big names to appear in his movie . Some even settle with appearing in some small roles . I'm talking about people such as Michael Gambon , John Turturro , William Hurt , Billy Crudup , Alec Baldwin ( it's funny , the older he gets , the better his acting ) and even Angelina Jolie , who is the second billing actor of the movie its role is kept small . It's really not the sort of role she usually plays . Also De Niro himself makes an appearance in the movie as does his good friend Joe Pesci , with his first role in 8 years . The main character is not always an easy one . It's a very quiet man , who also doesn't really seem to known how to express his feelings and therefor not the most appealing character , though definitely not the least interesting one of the movie . It's the reason why this probably isn't one of Matt Damon's most memorable roles but it of course doesn't mean that he didn't do a great job . What probably surprised me most about the movie was how well balanced it was . It isn't just a ' drama ' it isn't just a ' thriller ' , it's a mix of several genre styles that all work out great together . Especially the relationship elements of the movie worked out well . Normally it's just put in the movie for commercial reasons and to appeal more to a certain group of audience . But in this case it was a real enrichment for the movie and its story . The movie also definitely has style . Visually the movie is good looking with the good cinematography from Robert Richardson and the nice looking sets and costumes that help to set up the right atmosphere for the movie , that's also consistent with the time period the movie is set in . Of course there still are some lesser things about the movie but especially for a ' non-director ' like Robert De Niro is , it's a really great and well made movie .
Cult classic !	This movie might very well be THE ultimate cult classic ever made . It certainly is my favorite . Never have I seen a movie with so much and such great cult value in it . It's not really an epic movie in terms of having large epic sequences and battles in it but it nevertheless is a movie that takes on some epic proportions , which of course is also not in the least due to Arnold Schwarzenegger epic appearance in this movie . He was in great shape for this movie and it actually was also on of his earlier movie roles . It definitely was the movie that launched him to stardom . Not that his acting is epic in this movie though . It actually quite honestly is laughable bad at times but this only really adds to the movie its cult value . But what really makes this movie epic to me is its musical score by Basil Poledouris . Throughout his career Poledouris has scored for quite an amount of potentially B-movies ( basicly all the scores he did for the John Milius and Paul Verhoeven movies ) but his scores always managed to uplifts the movie to a much higher level , making these movies always much more than just a standard B-movie . I really can't imaging how this movie would had been without his musical score . As a matter of fact I don't even think I would had ever watched this movie , had it not been for its music . With its $20 , 000 , 000 budget this was a fairly expenses genre production for its time , also especially when you compare the budget to John Milius ' previous projects . It's budget can be seen back in its nicely shot action sequences , it's production values with its settings ( it was mostly shot in Spain ) , costumes and sets . It makes this visual a nice movie to watch . It wasn't a big box office success though and the movie did not became popular until years later , when the movie reached it cult-status . The story isn't really much special though and it also sort of drags in its middle part , when the movie does not always succeeds at it to bring entertainment . The movie is at its best when it is not trying to be more than it in fact is . The story just does not allow it to make this movie a great perfect classic . When the movie tries to be more serious this becomes painfully too obvious . It's mostly an enjoyable movie when its action kicks in . Luckily the movie is filled with some good old fashioned swords and fist fights , mostly in the beginning and toward the end of the movie . It can be a pretty violent movie at times and it also features its fair share of blood and gore . Besides Arnold Schwarzenegger the movie also features James Earl Jones in a rare villainous role . I don't think that there at that many movies around in which James Earl Jones plays a villain , except of course from the Star Wars movies , in which he voiced the ultimate villain Darth Vader . It also has Max von Sydow in a real small role and Japanese born actor Mako in a role which made him known and popular , despite the fact that he already had received an Oscar nomination once , 2 decades prior to this movie . It aren't really the actors that make this movie a good watch though but more the characters which they portray . My number one cult favorite !
Original prison movie .	This movie takes an original approach on the prison-movie genre . Instead of going over-the-top in its drama and emotions , the movie prefers to keep the movie deliberately small and personal with its characters and emotions . It makes " Down by Law " an original and always intriguing movie to watch , though not necessarily better than other genre movies . It's a typically slowly told and build up movie , with long beautiful shots and lots of shots without any spoken lines . It does make the movie feel way longer than it really is but this really is not complaint , since I liked what I got to see all . In essence the movie is three in one . The movie begins with the ( long ) character introduction of the two main characters played by Tom Waits and John Lurie . Two low-life small criminals who get framed for two serious crimes they didn't commit . When they're in prison and are joined by the other criminal played Roberto Benigni , the entire movie gets situated in that one prison cell . It doesn't even provide us a look on their hallway-view . It shows that all they have inside the prison cell is each other . They don't really want to be friends , also because they differ from each other but circumstances forces them to create a solid bond of friendship , that only grows stronger when the three of them escape prison ( also the escape itself is conveniently not fully shown ) . When they have escaped the movie gets different again , when the three main characters depend on each other for their survival . The movie is atmospherically filmed in black & white . It does make the movie feel older but timeless at the same time . The atmosphere and storytelling reminded me of some good classics from the ' 40's . I definitely think that Jim Jarmusch is an underrated director , with already a long list of great movies behind his name . He knows how to tell a story compelling and original , without many resources or money . The acting is great , though by no means any of the actors are the greatest . The choose to make their characters work out realistic and humane , rather than they try to impress and show of their acting skills . It makes us feel involved with them and makes the story work out so much more powerful and interesting to follow . Tom Waits and John Lurie are great two tough guys and Roberto Benigni is put in for the more comical note . It's definitely true that the movie is way more entertaining and humor filled than you at first sight would expect . The movie certainly doesn't begins as a comedy but it subtly turns into one as the story progresses . I expected an heavy , serious drama but instead I got a light and entertaining one . It was a delightful surprise and made " Down by Law " definitely a great and pleasant viewing experience . A great little , underrated movie !
An eye opener .	" Abre los ojos " is a nice delightful Spanish surprise . The movie has an highly good script that is well constructed and directed perfectly by Alejandro Amenábar . A true eye opener . To be honest the movie was not always perfectly good . Maybe the beginning and especially the middle were dragging a bit too much at times , like more often is the case in European movies . However the last 30 minutes really make you forget the first and perhaps weaker 1 hour and 30 minutes . The ending is tense , mysterious and it keeps you guessing to the end what really is the truth . It really is ' edge-of-your-seat ' stuff and perhaps even one of my favorite movie twists and ending . The movie is very professionally made and in many ways looks like an Hollywood production . So why this movie was ever re-made as " Vanilla Sky " ? I have really no idea , guess it was made for all of those who were too lazy to read the subtitles of " Abre los ojos " . The directing by Alejandro Amenábar was one of the highlights of the movie . He creates a perfect atmosphere and knows how to build up the story and the characters perfectly . Also the musical score by Mariano Marín and Alejandro Amenábar himself was surprising good and suited the movie perfectly . The movie can perhaps be described as a mix of " The Matrix " and " The Game " with a little flavor of " Total Recall " . I don't mean by that , that this movie feels like a rip-off in any way , not in the slightest . Fans of any of those type of movies mentioned earlier , this movie is a must see for you ! The mostly unknown actors were also surprising good . Eduardo Noriega , Penélope Cruz ( who still was mostly unknown at the time , outside of Spain ) , Chete Lera and Fele Martínez all portray some most excellent characters with lots of profession . Highly recommendable for everyone , even those who normally don't watch European movies .
Very good short !	This movie is realistic in many ways . The way the two brothers play , the way the boy meets the girl , everything is made just as it would happen in real life . Yep , it's Scandinavian movies at its best . The story is oh so simply but oh so recognizable . A boy is playing with his younger brother in the dunes , suddenly a young girl turns up , the boy who is obviously in the beginning of discovering his sexuality is of course immediately taking interest in this young girl . The younger brother doesn't like it and doesn't understand and maybe even gets a bit jealous , all he wants is to play with his older brother . At the ending the boy is forced to make a choice between his younger brother and perhaps the opportunity to fool further around with this young girl . The way the story is told and filmed is excellent . Nothing feels like it couldn't happen in real life . OK maybe the acting isn't exactly top-class but it's all about the story in this short . I'm sure that this short is not easy to catch but be sure to not miss the opportunity to see this one when you get the chance .
Impressive looking early Douglas Fairbanks Robin Hood adventure .	Believe it or not but this isn't actually even the first Robin Hood movie ever made . Robin Hood movies already got made back in the 1910's both those movies are of course now days hard to come buy . This Robin Hood movie version was also presumed to be lost , until a print reappeared again somewhere in the ' 60's . It's the first Robin Hood adaptation though which featured many of the elements of the legend that would be featured in most later movie versions . So in many ways this was an unique and renewing movie for its time . Still it's a slightly different movie version than you would expect for instance now days ( we'll still have to wait how the Ridley Scott / Russell Crowe version will turn out to be though , if it ever gets off the ground ) . The difference is mostly notable in the movie its first halve , which focuses mostly on the crusades Earl of Huntingdon / Robin Hood with King Richard the Lion-Hearted ventures on . Basically the movie its first halve is one big introduction till the movie hits the point at which the Earl of Huntingdon finally becomes the courageous and honorable thief with the good intentions Robin Hood . This is also when the fun mostly kicks in . The movie features some grand sets and mass sequences . It's a very detailed made movie , that looks perfect and spectacular in basically every shot , with its costumes , set dressing and large castles . The castle as featured in this movie is actually the largest ever built set in a silent Hollywood production . It also was the most expensive movie ever made at its time with its $1 . 4 million budget . The movie was also the first to get a large Hollywood release at its time , in the Grauman's Egyptian Theatre , which is still around now days . It's a movie that very skillfully got directed by already very experienced director Allan Dwan , who during his career directed a total of 404 movies , starting in 1911 and ending his career in 1961 . He even directed plenty more films ( about 3 times as much ) , when also considering his one-reeler's . He could had directed plenty of more movies though , when considering that he didn't died until 1981 . But he must had probably been fed up with film-making or modern film-making anyway . He directed mostly adventurous and swashbucklers , so he truly was a perfect pick for this movie . It was the last movie he did with Douglas Fairbanks . They made a total of 11 movies together , of which this one and " The Iron Mask " are the best known ones which they did together . It stars Douglas Fairbanks as the main lead , so of course this movie is a swashbuckler with plenty of action in it but what sort of disappointed me about the movie was that it wasn't really always an entertaining one . It seems to me that the movie is a bit too serious at times , instead of adventurous , entertaining and action filled . The movie is often more emotional and dramatic than fun to watch really . This is mostly why I still prefer the 1938 Errol Flynn Robin Hood movie version above this one , no matter how great it's all looking . It's really the movie its second halve which still makes this such a fun movie to watch . The story becomes more light and even a bit comical . It's fun seeing Robin Hood being chased around in a castle by a bunch of soldiers . Of course Douglas Fairbanks was doing all of his own stunts again and he shows some dangerous antics again in this movie , like only he could back in his days . The movie is quite long though and the movie just never gets fully over its contract between its first and second halve . A wonderful looking and great , yet really not perfect , swashbuckling entertainment from the 1920's .
The rise and fall of a gangster .	This movie is a well made and entertaining early gangster movie about the rise and fall of an ambitious criminal played by Edward G . Robinson . OK so this movie may not be " The Godfather " or " Scarface " but its a good gangster movie on its own nevertheless . The movie has a solid story even though the storytelling itself is lacking at times . The movie often takes jumps in the time-line and some moments feel rather hasted . But this is sort of fitting for ' 30's cinema standards . It's a movie that is mostly carried by its characters and actors rather than its events . The movie has many characters in it , which does make the movie seem well constructed and written . Most of the actors go extremely over-the-top in their roles , it's perhaps the only reason why the movie does feel quite dated . The only one who seems to play his character in the right way was Edward G . Robinson . He really was superb . He also went over-the-top but in a good and positive fitting way for its character and story . He carried the movie mostly on his own and makes the movie worth seeing for his performance alone . Douglas Fairbanks Jr . also plays a good role but his role is limited down a bit too much to really leave a lasting impression . The movie features most of the typical gangster clichés . The movie is filled with a whole bunch of tough backstabbing wise-guys , who each want to profit from another and go up the criminal ladder . The movie follows one of those characters . It provides a good and entertaining look into the organized crime of the 20's / 30's , during the infamous prohibition . The movie has some good and typical violent gangster moments , complete with shootouts and tough talking and looking gangsters . It all in all makes the movie a really good early gangster movie that obviously inspired many other later genre movies . For that reason alone it's already a bit of a must-see .
It's already a cult-classic .	For some reason I've always loved watching " Species " , even though I very well realize that it isn't a particularly good movie . Still due to its approach and handling of a really unoriginal concept and story , the movie can be regarded as one of the best science-fiction movies from the ' 90's . If you need to compare this movie to something , you can easily compare it to any of the " Alien " - movies . Of course over the years " Alien " and its sequel " Aliens " have been ripped-off countless times and film-makers often tried to cash in by making basically " Alien " and " Aliens " clones , using the same concept , settings , characters , locations , complete sequences and whatever more that it was that made these two science-fiction movies such an highly acclaimed success . Yes , in my opinion " Species " can definitely be seen as an " Alien " clone but out of all the movies that ever tried to rip off the " Alien " movies in any way possible , this is easily the best movie , that at times even makes you forget how unoriginal it actually truly is . Also no big wonder that the movie should remind you of " Alien " at times , also since the alien in this movie got designed by the same man who designed the original alien for " Alien " and all of its sequels . So perhaps this is also part of the reason why you so easily can forgive this movie from ripping off " Alien " in parts . It's a surprising movie from Roger Donaldson , who had never done any science-fiction or horror before and he also hasn't done any ever since . Donaldson is these days mostly known for directing more serious movies . It's perhaps its horror that also makes this movie work out so well . The movie is not just a science-fiction movie about an alien on the loose but truly knows to create a dark moody atmosphere as well and puts in a couple of true great and effective horror moments , which makes the movie tense and in a way also unpredictable to watch , also since the movie is not too afraid to kill off its main characters . There is also some gore in the movie that is good looking , with its often graphic killings . Also the make-up effects are great and the movie uses some early special effects , that especially for 1995 standards seem like pretty good ones , even though the movie itself somewhat feels and looks like a low budget production . The movie makes a choice not to only follow the team that is called in to hunt down the alien but also shows things from the perspective of the alien herself . She's constantly learning things , which she uses to adapt and blend in and to eventually get what she wants . This approach gives " Species " a nice extra dimension . It's like " The Day the Earth Stood Still " , only with a not so friendly alien . The movie also has an amazing cast with actors such as Ben Kingsley , Michael Madsen , Alfred Molina , Forest Whitaker and Michelle Williams involved . Whenever I hear the name - or a thinking of Ben Kingsley , I'm not thinking about " Schindler's List " or " Ghandi " but I'm thinking about " Species " . I don't now , I just find it to be a very amusing role by him , despite the fact that he plays his character totally death serious . I love this movie !
Intriguing and original movie about a plot ( s ) to assassinate Lincoln .	Movies mostly set in trains often work out extremely well . It's an enclosed and restrained environment , that creates a feeling of claustrophobia and tension but also with a lot of pace , since the train is always on the move . Just think about other movie examples set - or partly set on trains such as " North by Northwest " , " Murder on the Orient Express " , " Shanghai Express " and " From Russia with Love " . This is a movie that deserves a spot on this list as well . This is a rather intriguing and original movie concerning plots to assassinate Abraham Lincoln before or during his inauguration as the president . It's based on true fact . There really were several plots being brewed to assassinate Lincoln because of his outspoken opinion against slavery and because he mostly was seen as a friend of the north , among various other reasons . But of course the movie takes lots of liberties with the story , also because nobody really knows what happened really . The story focuses on a New York police man who suspects that there is plot to kill Lincoln . Only problem for him is his superiors don't believe him and won't take him serious , which is reason for him to take matters into his own hands . Aboard the train to Baltimore , where Lincoln would pass through on his way to Washngton D . C . to be inaugurated , there is a lot of political talk aboard between Lincoln ' fans ' and ' haters ' and other various characters that act very suspicious . It makes this a good and interesting movie on several levels . It gives a good view into the time and minds of American people who lived in the 1860's and at the same time also gives the movie a tense mysterious / thriller story . In 1951 , action-movies were still non-existent so to speak but this movie at times show some early premises of the genre . It's mostly notable in its pace and toward the ending of the movie . Interesting detail is that the main character in this movie is named John Kennedy . There always have been a surprising lot of similarities between Abraham Lincoln and the other assassinated US president John F . Kennedy , so the fact that the main character is named John Kennedy in a movie about Abraham Lincoln , 10 years before Kennedy became president is an odd coincidence to say the least . Also one of the plots , as described in this movie , to kill Lincoln in this movie show a surprising amount of similarities to how John F . Kennedy many years later got assassinated . One of those movies that really deserves to be known better and needs to be seen be more .
Did you expected anything less from a Sergio Leone western ?	This is a typical Sergio Leone western , with a style that made the spaghetti western one of THE genres of the ' 60's and redefined the western genre in general . " Per qualche dollaro in più " is the middle movie of the ' Dollar'-trilogy and although its not the best out of the trilogy it's of course still better than just your average kind of western ! It's a movie that's solidly written , with also some fine solid characters in it . But it of course is the directing and story-telling style of Sergio Leone that makes the movie work out so well . He takes his time to build up sequences and its excitement . This movie is really not halve as action filled as you perhaps would expect but it still is at least halve more exciting than most other westerns with lots of action in it . This says something about the effective directing approach of Leone . Of course his trademarks elements such as extreme close-ups of eyes , flashbacks , slow storytelling , gritty atmosphere and stand-offs are all present here . Lee Van Cleef plays one of his very best roles . Gian Maria Volontè also did a really good job at playing the movie its real main villain , although of course I still prefer Eli Wallach . And Clint Eastwood does what he can do best in this movie ; playing one tough but righteous character . It was also quite nice to see Klaus Kinski in this one ! And of course you can't get around Ennio Morricone's musical score . Wasn't he one of the first ever composes to give each character a main theme and motive throughout the movie , that gets featured prominently ? His score for this movie is just great and it above all really serves a purpose within the movie , which makes the score really suit the movie its story as well as the overall atmosphere . It's a movie that just gets better and better toward the ending , until it gets to its unavoidable stand-off sequence at the end , that is really exciting and memorable , once again not in the least thanks to Morricone's musical score , that actually plays a real important part during the sequence . In my opinion this movie gets nowhere close to the brilliance of " Il Buono , il brutto , il cattivo " , which is the ' follow-up ' of this movie and the last part of the trilogy , but that of course doesn't mean that this movie is a bad one ! Not at all !
A great adventure drama !	The movie has a great story about a rich spoiled brat who falls overboard on an ocean liner and gets picked up by a crew member of a fishing vessel . They can't take him back home immediately and he has to remain aboard the vessel for three months . The spoiled brat needs to adapt himself to the crew and hard life aboard the vessel , while the crew members in return also have a hard time exception the kid as one of them . But of course aboard the ship he learns far more than fishing . He learns about life and its values and about the ' real ' world . The movie has a dramatic story with several themes weaved in to it , such as most notably the father son relationship . It's however not a sappy over-the-top type of drama , as you would perhaps expect from a ' 30's movie . It's such a well layered story . It's even more interesting since its being told from the viewpoint of the young character . Quite unusual for a drama , especially for one made in 1937 , which makes this movie basically very good to watch for both adults as more younger people , even though it would be of course hard now days to interest them in an ' 30's movie . Despite being dramatic it also is above all really an adventurous movie to watch , especially for youngster of the same age as the movie its main character . It aren't really two genres that are commonly being mixed , which makes this an unique and great movie because of that reason already . The movie has a great cast . Of course the ' 30's were the golden age of child actors and Freddie Bartholomew is one of those great child actors of the ' 30's . Other and better known child actor Mickey Rooney also plays a role in this movie , although his role is actually quite small . Second main lead of the movie is being played by Spencer Tracy . If you didn't knew it was Spencer Tracy , you would had a hard time recognizing him in his role . I think this is also the foremost reason why he won an Oscar for his role in this movie . He completely becomes a different character , of Portugese heritage . The supporting cast is surprisingly filled with lots of big names such as Lionel Barrymore , Melvyn Douglas and John Carradine . All are well cast and play their parts great . The movie is importantly also a great looking one and most of the story is of course set aboard the boat . If there is one movie that could ever get you seasick it's this movie . The movie gives a good and realistic portrayal of life on the open sea . And despite the fact that the movie is mostly set aboard a boat , it isn't a movie that ever bores and there is always something happening in this movie , mostly thanks to its characters and actors that are portraying them . It might very well be the best adventure drama you will ever see !
A movie not without its weaknesses but still a more than great first go from Laurence Olivier on Shakespeare , on the silver screen .	No doubt Laurence Olivier must have been real proud of this project . It's really ' his ' movie , since he directed , produced as well as played the main lead . It actually earned him a special Honary Award during that year's Academy Awards ' for his outstanding achievement as actor , producer and director in bringing ' Henry V ' to the screen ' . It's a real Shakespeare movie , so expect lots of stagy looking settings and long dialog . Laurence Olivier however knows to bring it in a good and original way and actually manages to use it's ' stagy ' elements to the movie its own advantage . As an historical movie , concerning mostly the battle of Agincourt , I don't feel the movie is being completely accurate . The movie is a bit too patriotic by purely picking the British side , by showing how noble and brave they all were . It's presented as if Henry V willingly and fully knowingly walked into about , against a much bigger French force . Reason why the British won the battle of Agincourt was because of the supremacy of their longbows and the fact that the French completely underestimated them and made some tactical blunders during the battle . I don't really see much of that back in this movie . Also some of the cruelties being committed by the British and the mistakes they made during the campaign are simply not shown or mentioned in the movie really . The movie actually got financed by the British government , thinking that it would be a good moral boost for the English citizens and those fighting abroad , during WW II . So Shakespeare used as propaganda , how odd is that ? This is not really something uncommon by the way . ' Old ' movies often were very black & white with its themes . So good was being entirely good and bad totally bad . It's also not really something that troubled me too much but by todays standards its too simple and too outdated for the present movie norms . Also for a movie about the ' chronicle history of King Henry V ' the story focuses surprisingly little on the aspects of Henry V's life before and also certainly after the battle of Agincourt . The story ends at the peak of his life . But of course thing to blame for that is the movie its source , William Shakespeare's play , from 1600 . It's pretty nice that this is a 1944 movie that got shot entirely in color ( also much have been one of the reasons for its high budget though ) . It's actually the first ever Shakespeare movie to be made entirely in color . Still I feel that it would had suited the movie and its story better if it had been done in black & white . It would had suited the acting performances and the historical settings and characters all better . It's not like I hated this movie , of course not - far from it , but I don't want to sound all praising about it either . It's a good movie that however is not without its flaws and perhaps would had been a better one had it been made a decade earlier , at the time Laurence Olivier was playing the character on stage already . So not during WW II and not in color . But there is simply no denying it that this is such a well made and handled movie . Olivier did well and came to some creative solutions but by staying as much to the original source as possible , despite its undeniable WW II influences . The movie is perhaps at its best during the famous battle but also its dialog provide the movie with some real fireworks . A Shakespeare movie of course always has some amazing and often memorable dialog , especially when it remains so faithful to its source as this movie did . It of course also helps that the lines are being delivered by some real fine and capable actors . Laurence Olivier was an actor that simply lived and breathed Shakespeare throughout his career . A must-see for the fans of Shakespeare .
The first ever , still existing , attempt to put sound to moving images .	This is a pretty interesting experiment to watch . It's the first ever , still existing attempt , to unite sight with sound . It features two men dancing to a violin player ( possibly William K . L . Dickson himself ) , who is standing next to an Edison recording cylinder , that is capturing the sound . The sound and images were not linked together as one yet . And it wasn't until recently that the sound and image have been added technically together . It's probably the reason why people hesitate to call this movie the first ever sound picture . The movie is made by William K . L . Dickson , a assistant to Thomas Edison himself who ordered him to come up with a way to unite pictures and sound . The answer he provided was the Kinetophone , a Kinetoscope ( basicly a large wooden box with a peephole in it , so people could watch the moving images ) with a cylinder phonograph inside of it , for the sound . This is the first , that we know off , surviving movie-experiments that feature this technique . All of the later movies using this same technique were shot as silent movies and sound effects were recorded later and separately . So the Kinephone was not an attempt to synchronize sound and images but more an attempt to have images accompanied by sound . In some cases , people could even choose from three sound cylinders , featuring 3 different orchestral performances to accompany the images . Only 45 Kinetophones were ever made so you could hardly call the Kinephone a success . Also after this experiment , focus went off to other cinema techniques , mainly regarding movie-projectors . So the experiment itself obviously did not become a success , also since it took over 30 more years before the first movies with sound were made and commercially released . They just couldn't yet technically synchronize and put the sound and the images together yet at the time and even if they could and techniques would had been available , it would had been a very expensive job to do so . It therefor really isn't the most influential or historically important movies out of cinematic history but it's very interesting to watch , how people constantly tried to improve the quality and techniques of early cinema and movie-making .
Delightful .	Purely comical orientated movies weren't a that common thing in the ' 40's . it makes this movie an all the more refreshing and delightful one . It's a simple movie , with a simple story , that at all times is kept pleasant to watch . But that doesn't mean that the story is not a well written one . Often though of course most elements in it are generic and predictable , it is still all brought in a fresh way , which makes the movie still original enough in its genre and definitely for its time . The dialog is especially well written , as you would expect from a ' 40's movie , when writers understood their craft . It even in the end has a great Christmas spirit in it , which adds all the more to the pleasant warm feeling of the movie . To me it seemed pretty redundant though that the movie was set in Hungary . It added nothing to the story or characters and worked only confusing , since the characters all had Hungarian names but of course were all talking in plain English . I understand they let this movie take place in Hungary because it was based on an Hungarian play but movie-wise it didn't added anything . This was something the later movie versions of the play " In the Good Old Summertime " and " You've Got Mail " understood . James Stewart wasn't really known for his leading comical or romantic roles , so his role in this movie is quite surprising and he does a good job at it as well . He still looked so very young in this and in his first scene I didn't even realized it was him , simply because I didn't recognized him . The rest of the cast isn't that well known but the movie is filled with many and delightful characters , that are by no means standard or one dimensional . The many characters within the movie definitely adds to the movie its fun . It's not the sort of comedy that will make you laugh out loud but it's more the sort of movie that will put a smile on your face , all the way through .
Low budget movie making at its very best .	This movie almost literally cost nothing to make but this is not notable on screen . The movie is good looking and made with lots of style and flair . I'm probably not the biggest Darren Aronofsky fan around , since I'm not always fond of his visual style but I still respect him as a movie artist . I even quite liked his style for this movie , even though some of the moments were still a bit too weird for my taste . He uses a similar atmospheric , visual style as he used for " Requiem for a Dream " but difference in my opinion is that that style works better for this movie than it did in " Requiem for a Dream " . The movie is definitely a case of style over substance . The story itself is even quite boring when you think about it and certainly is not always understandable but it truly is the style that makes this movie an unique and also successful one . Its low budget movie making at its very best ; Minimun resources , maximum result . The actors aren't really the best ever and that is quite notable throughout the movie but like mentioned before , it doesn't really matter since this movie is all about the style and atmosphere and with that there is little wrong in this movie . In a way , a real must see .
Uhmm , for some reason I love it . . .	Yes , I'm very ashamed of myself but I can't help it that for some reason I really love this movie . Maybe it is because I often have a weak spot for over the top moments . The Rocky series of course is filled with some extremely over the top moments and " Rocky IV " really is no exception . Actually the movie also works as a good history lesson on the cold war subject . I actually had to watch this movie in history class years ago when the subject cold war was treated . It shows how the relationship between the USA and the USSR was at the time and what were the prejudices at the time , for instance that all Russian athletes used drugs and steroidsOf course the story is extremely predictable and you know exactly how it is going to end and that whole thing with that strange robot . . . well that was just weird . But like in all Rocky movies is the case , it really are the boxing and training sequences that make the movies worth watching . It should get your adrenaline flowing even though you of course know who is going to win in the end . Rocky I & II had Apollo Creed , " Rocky III " had Mr . T as Clubber Lang and " Rocky IV " has Dolph Lundgren as the opponent , who is a very stereotype strong Russian bear . I love it ! This might easily be Dolph Lundgren's best movie . Say what you want but I just love this movie .
Great character study .	I was very skeptic when this movie came out . The movie is based on a true story of a man who takes a building and several employees hostage because he is convinced of it that there are hidden encoded messages in Philips widescreen televisions and he demands that Phillips admits this to the general public , in a TV press conference . Only problem is . . . he has taken the wrong building hostage . Sounds like more than enough material to make a comedy about , so needless to say that I was very skeptic and even a bit angry when I found out that they wanted to make a serious heavy drama about this man and what drove him to his actions . But the movie ended up being far better than I could have ever had expected it to be . The movie perfectly shows the growing paranoia of the main character and how he slowly looses all sense of reality . The already unstable character ( his wife has left him after more than 30 years and he has trouble at his work as a bus driver ) becomes more understandable , he's a man who has got nothing more to loose and wants justice . The two main actors are really what drives this movie . Jan Decleir is a truly fantastic actor . This guy has had several big Hollywood offers already ( Kubrick wanted him in " Eyes Wide Shut " and he was offered a part in " The World is not Enough " and he has played in several Academy Award winning Dutch movies . ) . But Jeroen Krabbé really impressed me the most . I already knew what a great actor he was of course but I had never seen him playing a better role as he did in this movie . It's too bad that the story is told in a typical ' Dutch way ' . The story keeps jumping from present time to what happened prior to this man's desperate action . It feels kind of pointless that the story is told in this way and it became a bit irritating after a while . Still the movie is not worth the low rating it receives here currently . ( Only a 5 . 3 ? What's up with that ? ) and obviously so far all the other movie reviewers here agree with that . The movie is not just good , it's great , thanks to the good directing from big talent Pieter Kuijpers and the acting of the two main actors , Jan Decleir and Jeroen Krabbé . The script could had used some more work here and there though .
A really well made heavy handed drama .	You know , some movies are just made as pure drama's . They are purely made to bring emotions to the screen and their heavy handed . You just know that from start till finish there will be nothing to enjoy about the movie and it is going to be as serious as it can get . " The Grapes of Wrath " is such a drama , so if you don't like heavy , serious drama's , this just ain't the movie for you to watch . Because the movie is so incredibly heavy handed and self righteous , this perhaps isn't the masterpiece everybody telling you it is but there is no denying that the movie is really well made and also features some great acting performances . But because it's such an extreme drama it often feels forced as well and causes the movie to be a long watch , even though it really isn't a that long movie . It's just a movie with a real slow pace and yes I would definitely call it boring in parts , even though lots of ( dramatic ) things are happening within this movie . It really isn't the most exciting movie to watch and therefore also not really a very effective one . Even though I could appreciate the movie for what it was , it just didn't ever grabbed me with its emotions , story or characters , no matter how very well it all got done . But no , I obviously didn't hated this movie , on the contrary really . Seriously , how can you hate such a well crafted movie like this ? Even though this movie got released in the early ' 40's it still has a real typical ' 30's look and feeling over it . The ' 30's really used to be the era of some of the best and most effective drama movies . It's a movie that obviously got well directed , by John Ford , who loved to make real ' American ' movies . His movies always have something proud and patriotic about it but without the flag waving and such . To the main crowd he is perhaps best known for the work he did within the western genre , with movies such as " Stagecoach " and " Rio Grande " under his belt . It's also a beautiful looking movie with its cinematography and sets and costumes , which really suits the time period the movie got set in . It has a really great story and amazingly enough things like this really happened back then in America . I didn't knew anything about this piece of history , so I definitely learned something new from it . It's a pretty amazing story and you would have a hard time believing it if you didn't know that things like this really happened in the past . The first halve of the movie is basically a road trip with lots of drama to it obviously , while the rest of the movie also tends to be very dramatic , when the family constantly tries to settle down where ever there is work ( and more trouble ) . Henry Fonda really plays a great role and he himself also considered it to be the role out of his career . He also received an Oscar nomination for his role . The movie also has an amazing supporting cast , with for instance fine acting performances from Jane Darwell and John Carradine . Darwell even won an Oscar for her part in this movie . It was one of the 2 Oscar's this movie received . The other was for director John Ford . Both deserved their win I would say . The movie got nominated in 5 more categories , including Henry Fonda's nomination . Perhaps not the masterpiece I was expecting , it was too overdone and heavy handed for that but nevertheless one great movie , that I surely appreciated watching .
Definitely the lesser one of the three but that doesn't mean it's bad .	I'll admit that probably the reason why I find this movie to be the lesser one of the three Back to the Future movies , has all to do with the reason that Western has never really been my favorite movie genre . This movie is almost set entirely in the Wild West of the late 19th century . The movie features all of the Western clichés but at the same time it doesn't ridicule the genre . Pistol fights at dawn , hanging , robbing the stagecoach , typical villains , a sheriff , you name it and its in this movie . You may say that Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale pay a great homage to the longtime gone genre of classic spaghetti Westerns , with using all of the typical clichés and small references . " Back to the Future " and " Back to the Future Part II " were two brilliantly written movies , with ingenious connected plot lines , moments and characters . " Back to the Future Part III " is also well written and is definitely fun and entertaining but just not as clever or ingenious as the previous two movies . " Back to the Future Part III " surely does still offer plenty of enough entertainment and cleverness . It makes sure that the movie overall is an entertaining one , that is also definitely helped by its characters and good , quick , fun directing from Robert Zemeckis , who with the Back to the Future movies made himself immortal as a movie director . Besides the Wild West concept the movie also differs from the other previous two Back to the Future movies in many more ways . Of course the Wild West already provides the movie with a totally different atmosphere and premise than the previous two Back to the Future movies but also the storytelling and approach makes this movie a ' different ' one . You can really say that perhaps this time the real main character of the movie is the Doc . The main plot line ( a love story ) of the movie involves him . Not much room for Marty and his family this time in this one , unlike had been the case in the previous two movies . I liked the previous two movies so much because Marty clashed in his past and future with his own relatives , that were alive at that time period . It always resulted in some comical - and brilliant written and constructed moments . " Back to the Future Part III " doesn't really have enough moments of that . It still has some fun moments involving time traveling and of course mainly the cultural differences that show what happens if characters from this time period are being set back in the early 19th century . It makes some of the moments in the movie still hilarious , such as Marty's clothes , his choice to name himself Clint Eastwood , Frisbees and the opening ceremony of the well known clock from the Back to the Future movies . The movie of course also future ' distant ' relatives of characters that are alive in 1985 , the real-time , time period of the entire trilogy . Some play a more prominent role than others . Again the main villain is a Tannen . Buford ' Mad Dog ' Tannen , to be exact . A typical stereotype example of a dumb but ruthless Western villain . He is perfectly portrayed by Thomas F . Wilson . The entire cast is basically great . Michael J . Fox and Christopher Lloyd have really grown into their roles and the chemistry is still there . They are being helped this time by the great Mary Steenburgen , as Doc's love interest . What I love about the Back to the Future movies is that they always pick things up were the last movie ended . It makes the movie really a trilogy that can also be perfectly watched as one movie , just as the Lord of the Rings and Star Wars movies . The movie is really great looking with great sets , costumes and make-up effects that suit the time period of the movie just right . What the movie also does well is blending in the different atmospheres of the different time periods with each others . When the movie is set back in 1985 , you don't have the feeling like you're watching a totally different movie . Dean Cundey's cinematography of the movie is great and he also plays a small cameo role in the movie itself by the way . Alan Silvestri's musical score is also great but again also the lesser of the three in my opinion . But it's still great , so what am I really complaining about . . . The early special effects are also quite good , considering its period this movie was made . The movie is really great , fun , clean , adventurous entertainment to watch from start till finish , with fun characters , settings and directing . A fitting conclusion of perhaps the most entertaining movie trilogy of all time .
Rambo goes home .	Rambo returns to the battlefield , were he feels most at home and is most of use . He gets send on a top-secret operation to bring back POW's still held in Vietnam . Dumb , big , overblown action movies really don't get any better than this ! It's therefor shameful that his movie currently has a mere 5 . 5 rating on here . This movie is a true ' 80's action classic . Although yes , I admit I have always had a weak spot for Rambo and Rocky movies , perhaps because they are so overblown and quite silly once you start thinking more about it but yet always manage to work out so well . The movie is actually quite in contrast with the previous first Rambo movie ; " First Blood " . In that movie in fact hardly any soul died , while in this movie Rambo is on one big killing spree . Rambo shows his killing spirit again , when he returns to Vietnam , that is often described in this movie as his ' home ' . He is one of those persons who lives and should die on the battlefield and isn't much good for much else . This is what also got him in trouble in the first Rambo movie . It's this movie and the other sequels that made Rambo a synonym for action and killing . A true one man army , while the first movie was a much more personal and restrained movie with its main character . You understood the character while now instead you have a tough character simply running and shooting on everything that is moving . It's a sort of shame that they didn't developed the Rambo character any further from the same perspective as in the first movie . But oh well , than we wouldn't had the big overblown Rambo character we know today and Sylvester Stallone is so well known for . The story is this time written by Sylvester Stallone himself and none other than James Cameron , who worked on the screenplay before getting fame as the director / writer of " The Terminator " . However this doesn't also mean this movie has a good story . In fact if you start over-analyzing it , it's pretty poor all , so lets just simply not do so . This is not an action movie that's a bout its story . if you want an action movie with content you should stick to watching the first Rambo movie . Of course not only the Vietnamese but also the Russians get involved because after all this movie got made during the cold war . A theme that also often returned in several Sylvester Stallone flicks , as if he fought his personal own cold war during that time . It's mostly this movie that shows why Sylvester Stallone is one of the biggest action heroes that ever lived . He is tough , has big muscles , knows how to handle guns and smaller weapons such as his knife and good old bow & arrow . This is however not Sylvester Stallone's finest acting moment tough , while he was still rather good in the first Rambo movie . But I don't really think that this movie its story allowed any of its actors to shine in it . The movie also features Steven Berkoff , who always knows to play the sort of ultimate Russian villain , even though he himself is British . Richard Crenna also reprises his role again from the first movie . The action is nice and big and is what makes this movie such a fine one to watch , especially of course when you're into the genre . The movie is directed who was an action movie specialist , even though his movies were often of questionable quality , except for " Tombstone " , which was his finest moment , even though its debatable how much of that movie he actually directed . The movie is being uplifted even more by the musical score . It's Jerry Goldsmith's best score for a Rambo movie and a true fine piece of action scoring . Too bad they didn't turned up the music volume some more in this movie . A real likable ' 80's action flick .
Very fun and very gory , horror cult-classic !	What makes this movie better than most other movies from its genre , is that it obviously doesn't take itself very serious . The result of this is that the movie is a very fun one to watch . The movie is an extremely gory one , with gallons of blood and some nice make-up effects , so fans of all of that will be absolutely delighted by this movie . The movie does at times shock with its images but really , the movie remains more fun than anything else really . The humor in the movie is very dark and it has some absolutely priceless and original moments in it , that are so odd and surreal that you MUST laugh . It helps to make " Re-Animator " a very enjoyable and entertaining movie to watch . The story of the movie is absolutely great . It's simple but all very well executed . It really is the fact that the movie obviously doesn't take itself serious that makes the over-the-top , unrealistic story work so well . Perhaps not everything in the movie works out as solid as it could had been , because of that very same reason but it in no way makes " Re-Animator " less enjoyable to watch . The main characters of the movie aren't really charismatic enough , with the exception of David Gale who plays the main bad guy of the movie . The characters don't make a solid enough impression and make the movie less solid as it could had been . Not really only the actors fault but also director Stuart Gordon who perhaps lied the emphasis of the movie a bit too much on the gore and dark-comical elements of the movie at times . There are absolutely some great and certainly original sequences in the movie , which all helps to make this movie a very memorable one . When a head and I mean just a head , is raping a young woman you know you're watching an original , horror cult-movie . It's a very unique movie , which humor , gory and graphics might not appeal to everyone but to the fans of over-the-top , campy , gory horror-movies this is an absolute must-see !
The Chronicles of Narnia more matured , just like its characters .	In my opinion " The Chronicles of Narnia : The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe " was more a movie that got aimed toward young movie goers , lets say about the age of 12 . This latest Chronicles of Narnia entry got obviously aimed toward a slightly older audience . It's a bit more serious and less cuddly all , which makes this movie even a better one to watch than its predecessor . Not that I was the biggest fan of the first movie but I saw the potential the franchise had and despite its obvious flaws I gave the movie the benefit of the doubt and gave it an high rating , simply because the movie did not failed at it to bring some quality entertainment . Like many sequels of lately , the movie-makers actually seem to spend time to look at how to improve sequels and learn from their mistakes from the first movie . This movie is really less flawed than its predecessor . For instance the story flows better ( probably because of the fact that we already know the main characters from the first movie , so no introductions are required ) and the movie handles its characters better as well . It helps that there are slightly less characters this time and it definitely also helps as well that the characters are not as sweet and cuddly as well . It's a more matured movie , just like all of its characters . It's also a better looking movie . I was never too impressed by the special effects from " The Chronicles of Narnia : The Lion , the Witch and the Wardrobe " but I must say that in this movie they did a considerable better job with it . It definitely helped that they gave the special effects department a bigger budget this time . This is also partly what got the franchise in trouble though . Despite being received well at the box offices , it didn't provided Disney a profit . The Chronicles of Narnia gets now continued with the help from a different studio , that still needs to be found but I'm sure that will succeed at this . It's an interesting and potentially a very profitable franchise for any studio basically . What perhaps also gives the movie a better look is Karl Walter Lindenlaub camera-work , who already also had a lot of experience with multi-million dollar budget movies , having worked Roland Emmerich in the past , on his more earlier movies . It's not like the story of this movie is much better though but perhaps this is also what makes the movie better to watch . There are no distracting side-plots and the movie is pretty much straightforward . It becomes obvious from the first minute on what needs to happen and the movie builds up to that main point , without ever really diverting . It makes the story easy , as well as pleasant to follow . The movie simply brings some fine and good looking entertainment . Just like in the first movie , it are mostly the battle sequences that impress . It's surprisingly large scaled all for such a family-friendly movie . The movie also isn't afraid to fully show its battles and everything that comes with it . So we seeing people dying and falling and all things like that , as you could expect from a movie featuring epic battle sequences . Of course there is also a slightly Christian undertone again but in this case it doesn't work out as distracting and obvious as it did in the first movie . I was a bit afraid they would give Aslan ( who basically is God ) too much screen time and I also had heard stories like that in advance . However as it turned out , his screen time is actually quite limited and his ' wise ' words and philosophies are therefore also not as annoying and distracting from the movie as I had feared . The movie obviously spend most of its budget on its visual aspects , so no big acting names are involved with this movie this time . Yes , Aslan is still voiced by Liam Neeson but as earlier mentioned his role is relatively small . Tilda Swinton also makes a very small cameo as the the White Witch . The role she played in the previous movie . It's about an 10 seconds reprise really . If you liked the first movie , you'll like this movie probably just as much and perhaps even better !
Very entertaining monster mash .	This movie features the three most popular Universal Pictures classic monsters ; Dracula , The Frankenstein Monster and The Wolf Man . Lon Chaney Jr . returns in his role as Lawrence Talbot / The Wolf Man This time the role of Dracula is played by John Carradine ( indeed the father of . . ) and the role of the Frankenstein Monster is played by Glenn Strange . Boris Karloff doesn't play a ' monster ' in this one but instead portrays a terrific and typical villainous professor role alá professor Frankenstein . So for the fans of classic Universal Pictures monster movies this already are all more than enough reasons to watch this movie . The movie is more a sequel to " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " than it is to any of the other Frankenstein , Dracula and The Wolf Man movies , made before this one . The story is very weak ( especially the beginning is maybe even border-line laughable ) but the fun of having those three classic monsters in one and the same movie compensates for this and towards the ending the story even gets better and somewhat more realistic . The movie can be seen as two different ones . The first part is with Dr . Gustav Niemann , Daniel , Dracula and the family Hussman and the second part is with and about Dr . Gustav Niemann , Daniel , The Wolf Man , The Frankenstein Monster and the gypsy girl Ilonka . No , the movie doesn't feel completely as a whole and the first part of the movie with Dracula just feels pointless and doesn't really serve a purpose in the story . John Carradine however is a good Dracula although he tries a bit too hard to copy Bela Lugosi's Dracula role . Understandable of course since both play the same role but it just looks a bit weird when Carradine tries to act and look scary with his eyes in a way only Lugosi could successfully do . It was surprising to see how much more at ease and better Lon Chaney Jr . was in his role compared to the previously made movies featuring the Wolf Man in it . Karloff is also in good form . It's a bit sad , Karloff will always be remembered for playing the mumbling Frankenstein creature even though Karloff was a very good actor , this movie is one more bit of proof of Karloff's acting skills . Glenn Strange was surprising convincing as the Frankenstein monster and he actually looked quite a bit like the Karloff Frankenstein monster version . It was also fun to see Lionel Atwill again in a role as police inspector , a role he had played before in many other Frankenstein and Dracula movies . I wouldn't be surprised if he had been in more horror movies than Karloff or Chaney Jr . This movie is very entertaining , only thanks to the classic monsters in it and the actors . But of course you have to be a fan of the genre to fully appreciate this movie .
Greatly directed and acted .	I watched this movie without really knowing what to expect . The previews were rather vaguely on what the story was about and what the movie its overall style was . I'll admit that the only reason that made me see this movie were the two actors Michael Pitt and Eva Green , who are two great young new rising stars . What I got to eventually see did not disappointed me . It's a greatly told and intriguing original story about three young film buffs , of which two are twins , in Paris who are drawn toward each other and start to develop an unusual relationship , of which the love for cinema forms the basis . The undertone of the movie is sensual and erotic . Often the images themselves say more than a thousand words . The story is told with mixed old movie classic footage , that the three of them try to impersonate . They breath , eat and think movies . Yes , the movie sounds definitely ' art house ' like and it also is an art house movie but its way more accessible than I make it sound . Guess you still have to be a movie lover your self to appreciate the movie and its story and all of its art but then again I don't think that any ' normal ' ' regular ' movie watchers would decide to watch this movie in the first place . At least I can't think of any reason why . In essence it's a movie about movie lovers for movie lovers . The movie is beautifully directed and it chooses to tell its story really from the view point of the three main characters . It provides us a view in their lifestyle and helps us to understand them , without ever really literally explaining anything . Like I said before , often the images themselves say more than a thousand words . The style of directing gives the actors a lot of room and opportunity to shine . That also happens in this movie , for Michael Pitt , Eva Green , Louis Garrel all deliver a very powerful and heavy performance , plus the three of them work great and very naturally together , especially in the nude sequences . Yes , the movie is filled with lots of explicit nudity from the three main actors and I'm not just talking about a couple of chest shots . So be aware of that before watching this movie , if you know you can't handle it or feel uncomfortable with it . Big kudos to the three main actors for having the guts to appear in the movie that way . You want see anything like this in an Hollywood movie , I can assure you that . But the nudity in the movie also serves a purpose and it's used as a tool to tell the story with and show the bonding and relationship the three of them start to develop over the days . There are times that the movie goes a bit too over-the-top . After all , it remains an independent art house movie . It doesn't make all of the sequences work out as effective or understandable . Some moments make a redundant impression and other moments are not developed well enough , such as the homo-erotic references about the growing relationship between the two male main characters . I think it's a missed opportunity that this wasn't developed any further in the movie . It remains shallow and only features some vague references . It could had provided the movie and its main plot with some intriguing and original sensual layers . Visually the movie is great and it knows how to capture the mood and atmosphere of ' 60's Paris . The sets are nice and the cinematography effective . It's not really a that relevant or thought provoking movie to watch , so by no means its an essential viewing in my opinion but when you do decide to watch it , you most certainly will not be disappointed . The movie is definitely original and movie buffs will surely know to appreciate it .
Good last , old fashioned styled , thriller from Fritz Lang .	Of course this isn't the most classic or best Fritz Lang movie but it nevertheless is a more than worthy last one by him . It's not that he died shortly afterward ( he lived till 1976 ) but he lost his eye sight and by 1964 he was already nearly blind . It feels right that he ended his directing career with a Dr . Mabuse movie . His previous 2 directed Dr . Mabuse movies , " Dr . Mabuse , der Spieler - Ein Bild der Zeit " and " Das Testament des Dr . Mabuse " are among his best and also best known works . He obviously had some real passion and respect for the character of Dr . Mabuse . Why else would he had made 3 movies involving the character , over the course of 4 decades . The character is of course also a real intriguing ones . He was one of the first real movie villain in the 1922 movie " Dr . Mabuse , der Spieler - Ein Bild der Zeit " . A character that manipulates , influences peoples will , all for his own benefits , with the help of hypnotic and supernatural powers . Just like 7 of the 8 Dr . Mabuse movies made , this movie is shot in atmospheric black & white . Fritz Lang made a few color movies late in his career but for this movie he went back to his beloved black & white . No doubt he did this on intentions to let this movie connect more and better to the previous 2 Dr . Mabuse movie , made before this one . After all , the last Dr . Mabuse made before this one dates back from 1933 . Even though this movie is made 27 years later , it's still a direct sequel to to " Das Testament des Dr . Mabuse " . It makes lots of references to the events which occurred in that movie . However if you haven't seen the previous 2 movies , I think you'll also still have a good time watching this movie and understand the events in it . The visual style and style of film-making is also mostly the same when compared to the 1933 movie . A style Fritz Lang was of course very experienced in , being one of the best directors of the ' 20's and ' 30's . Nevertheless the movie is still set in its ' present ' day 1960 . It makes this a ' 60's movie in ' 30's style , which also provides the movie with a few clumsiness's and at times makes this movie feel , sound and look way more outdated . It therefor can be argued if this was the right approach . No doubt it is also part of the reason why this movie isn't as well known and appreciated as the previous two Dr . Mabuse movies from 1933 and 1922 . The cinematography within this movie is especially great and helps to give the movie its own unique atmosphere and old fashioned feeling style . Gert Fröbe was really excellent in this movie . He proofs himself once more to be one of the best German actors that ever lived . Ir's fun that many actor appearing in this movie also appeared in the later Dr . Mabuse sequels , often in completely different roles , including Gert Fröbe . It's sort of too bad that the whole movie doesn't have the pace and excitement of the movie its first halve . There is more talking than real thriller or suspense moments in the second part . Still the whole mysterious atmosphere and question ; ' Who is Dr . Mabuse ? ' , remains present throughout the entire movie . The movie also ends with a real blast and gets surprisingly action filled toward its ending . Yet another real recommendable Dr . Mabuse movie !
Very solid !	What makes this " The Hïre " short slightly better than most of the others is the very solid acting in this movie . Don Cheadle gives away a very solid performance . Also the action is once more top-class ! The Driver versus a helicopter is a very cool thing to watch . I also love the way the story is told and it's edited well together by John Gilroy . Also the story itself is very solid and exciting and is very well constructed , completely with a solid and satisfying ending . Good job Joe Carnahan and Joe Sweet ! Also look for some small cameo's by F . Murray Abraham , Ray Liotta and Robert Patrick .
Laurel & Hardy's mishaps with Edgar Kennedy .	This is a very amusing silent slapstick short from Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy , this time opposing Edgar Kennedy . This time Edgar Kennedy does not play a police officer but he is on the other side of the law ; a person who hasn't paid his debt for a radio . Laurel & Hardy are sent out to collect the debt and Kennedy does everything he can to keep the boys out of his house , so he can keep his radio . The movie is fast paced with slapstick moments that rapidly come after each other . Even the moments before the real ' action ' and main plot line kicks in , are fast paced and highly amusing and involves Laurel & Hardy regular Charlie Hall , among others . So yes , you can really say that " Bacon Grabbers " is a movie that constantly amuses in a good fast comedy pace . The real fun really begins from the moment the boys arrive at the Kennedy residence . The boys at first try to serve a summons and once they finally achieved that they try to repossess the radio . The events that happen during these moments is slapstick comedy at its best . Not too much story , just some good old fashioned visual and exaggerated comedy going on the screen , meaning lots of running around and wrecking things , especially towards the ending . Beside Laurel & Hardy regulars Charlie Hall and Edgar Kennedy , the 18-year old Jean Harlow also shows up once more toward the ending of the movie , in a very small role as the Mrs . Kennedy . Not the best known Laurel & Hardy movie but definitely worth checking out .
An Arabian fantasy in Technicolor .	In all fairness , this movie has basically very little to do with the 1924 version of the movie with same name , starring Douglas Fairbanks in the main lead , despite the fact that this movie is listed everywhere as an official remake of this movie . Both movies are good and entertaining in their own unique ways . There always had been many different interpretations of the story over the years . It's an early movie in color and like most early color movies it features lots of extremely bright colors , as if they were trying to show off . This means that the boats , costumes and sets are all in very bright colors , or at least in colors that in no way would be used today . Yes , it's quite fake looking all at times but I always like this fake and bright look of these early color movies . It definitely has a certain charm over it . With its 6 different directors , production must have been a mess but luckily none of this can be seen back in the movie . Not the least directors were at one time involved with this movie ; Michael Powell , Alexander Korda , Zoltan Korda , all did some great and well known movies in their careers . In the movie can't really been seen back in its style or storytelling that so many different directors were at one point involved with this movie . The movie feels mostly consistent , which is of course a great but also amazing thing . The movie has a great story and is told pleasantly with a good fast pace , which helps to make the movie really entertaining to watch , despite the fact that there isn't really an awful lot of action or anything else like that occurring in the movie . It's above all things an adventurous movie with lots of traveling and exotic locations . Too bad that the movie sort of sleeps in in its second halve and the movie looses its focus on the main character , in favor of other characters . The lead actors of the movie are mostly going over-the-top with their performances , which can be expected from young , inexperienced , handsome looking actors . Luckily the supporting cast is way better , with the always fantastic Conrad Veidt as the villainous Jaffar . The musical score from Miklós Rózsa is also a classic and is also one of the things that gives the movie its pace , adventurous feeling and color . An all in all colorful adventurous movie !
A refreshing non-formulaic movie with an effective approach about a sensitive Cuban subject .	This is a rather good and surprising Cuban movie , focusing on homosexuality in Communist Cuba . It's not the sort of movie you expect coming from Cuba and on top of that it also isn't a movie that stays on the surface but goes in into the subject real deep . It's not a movie that focuses on the physical relationship between the two main characters but more between the spiritual relationship of the two , which is a surprising approach . So , it's not a ' standard ' movie about two man falling in love with each other , as you at first might expect when watching this movie . It's a movie that goes much deeper and therefor gets more layered , interesting and compelling to watch . It's great to see how the two of them grow toward each other , in a non-forced or formulaic way . It feels like a warm and very realistic movie , since it never chooses to diverse from its main plot-line and mainly focuses purely on the two main characters of the movie . Vladimir Cruz gives a good and realistic performance . But one thing that bothered me about him was that he was very popular in both male and female camp , which seemed weird and funny to me , since he really didn't looked like an handsome guy . But who knows , maybe this is the Cuban's idea of a pretty looking man . Jorge Perugorría also did a good job , although he performance as an homosexual character seemed a bit too feminine and over-the-top to me at certain points . He played the character like an obvious stereotype of a gay person but he did it in such a good and sincere way that it wasn't always a problem . I was also surprised by the look and overall atmosphere of the movie . Foreign movies , made outside of Cuba , always focus - and shows its visual beauty , of wide beaches , palms , beautiful music and people living there . It's a sort of an almost surreal and alternate world if you look at it . This movie is however more dark and gritty and shows the ugly side of Havana , both visually as with its themes and underlying comments . Some of the symbolism and underlying messages in the dialog are a bit too obvious , as if they were trying too hard , but this is perhaps the only real flaw in the movie its excellent story and directing of the movie . Don't know why the movie is often being regarded and treated as a comedy . It's above all an heavy drama but done in a light and more pleasant sort of way , but those are no reasons for me to regard this movie as a comedy . The movie uses the more European style and approach of the story and characters . So be sure what to expect when watching this movie . A great and relevant movie because of its themes , and I assume also a big step forward for gay-right and tolerance in Cuba .
A wonderfully rich entry .	The movie has a great written genre story . It features all of the usual Columbo ingredients ; The way Lt . Columbo approaches and bonds to his suspect , the way the mystery unravels for him , Columbo's dog , the cat and mouse play , which is great in this one and luckily as well some good relieving humor , mostly involving the Columbo character . It's all written despite the fact that it doesn't even have a truly original concept . Columbo hunting down a detective / murder novel writer had been done more than once before in a Columbo movie . It's also an extremely well directed movie from James Frawley , who after this directed 5 more Columbo movies , in the ' 70's and ' 80's . He provided the movie with style and some truly great and memorable sequences . It's one of the slower moving Columbo movies , despite not having a too long running time . This style and approach doesn't always work out well for a Columbo movie but in this movie it does , which is perhaps not in the least thanks to the acting performances of the movie . Most Columbo movie either starred a big well known star or a star from the early days of film-making , as the movie its murderer . This movie stars the rather unknown 81 year old Ruth Gordon . She didn't starred in an awful lot of movies throughout her career but she is still well known to some , mostly for her role in " Rosemary's Baby " , which also won her an Oscar . She had a realistic and somewhat unusual style of acting , which some people might not like though . It earned her 4 more Oscar nominations throughout her career , prior to her win for " Rosemary's Baby " , in 1969 . She has some great interaction as well with Peter Falk in their sequences together . The movie also stars a still young G . D . Spradlin . I say young because I only know him from his latest productions out of his career , despite the fact that he already was 57 at the time of this Columbo production . He is still alive but retired from acting , ever since 1999 . An even better than usual Columbo movie entry .
A great genre movie !	The movie is made in the same trend as " Citizen Kane " and the movie and its story and storytelling were obviously inspired by the success and greatness of the movie . This movie its main character is also featured ( almost ) entirely just in flashback , when an intrigued detective-story writer ( Peter Lorre ) ventures himself into a search of who the notorious criminal Dimitrios Makropolous ( Zachary Scott in his first movie role ) ' was ' , by interviewing people he met and had business with . It's a perfect treatment for the main character , who takes mysterious and grand proportions as a cold-hearted ruthless criminal , who isn't afraid to kill and use people to complete his assignment . He is a great early movie villain , who is unpredictable , slick , smart and therefor an interesting person to follow . Though it's debatable whether it aren't Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet who are the real main characters of the movie . Their search and the story of Dimitrios Makropoulos are two separate stories in the movie , who yet feel as one . It therefor is perhaps most fair to say that the 3 of them are the main characters of the movie . Zachary Scott plays he role effectively , though his performance will probably by todays standards be considered as formulaic and perhaps stiff . Peter Lorre is totally great in his role and he again is acting a lot with his body and especially his eyes . He plays a real great character , who is far from a hero or brave , which at the same time makes him very humane and therefor understandable and easy to relate with . Sydney Greenstreet is also totally great in his role . Greenstreet didn't played in an awful lot of movies during his career but when he did , his roles were always something special . He also appeared in many other classic movies from the ' 40's such as " The Maltese Falcon " , " They Died with Their Boots On " , " Casablanca " , " Christmas in Connecticut " and the list goes on . Also fun to see how he almost always played the same sort of character . But why shouldn't he , he was absolute great at it , in basically every movie he appeared in . The movie its style can be described as film-noir , set in a mysterious and more entertaining-light environment . The movie is not as heavy and serious as some of its other genre movies , which is perhaps also a reason why this movie isn't as well known as some of its fellow genre movies from the same time period . The atmosphere , camera-work and settings work moody for the movie , which provides this movie with a typical and unbeatable ' 40's flavor . A movie really worth seeing , with a great memorable and suiting finale .
In my opinion one of the better MGM musicals .	There are a couple of reasons why this movie is in my opinion better than the average MGM musical movie . One is the story . Of course it features a love-story but the movie takes an original approach and takes a couple of nice turns with the love-story . Who is falling in love with who always remains a surprise in the movie . Another reason is an obvious one ; Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly . Not only are they great genre actors but they're also great together . Especially Kelly delivers one fine performance . The female cast is also impressive by the way , with Esther Williams as the female lead . Another important reason why this movie is so great is the cheerfulness of the whole movie . The songs are cheerful and never really too sappy or just plain awful . The movie has some great comedy moments and is also definitely helped by its fun main characters . The movie sort of pays a great homage to the early days of baseball in America . The settings and premise work out fine for the genre and make the otherwise still somewhat formulaic storyline still come across as original . The production values are also good and everything combined makes sure that this is a good pleasant bright musical comedy that is perfect to kill some time with and have a good time with at the same time .
Laurel & Hardy cause some hilarious mayhem on a train .	This first talking movie from Laurel & Hardy is a surprising good one . It has the typical Laurel & Hardy humor in it , for which they are so famous and loved over the world . This is one of their most typical shorts . It's simple and it's almost non-stop filled with slapstick moments . Laurel & Hardy at their purest and finest . The movie begins standard but from the moment when the two boys enter the train the movie becomes an almost fun and non-stop laugh-fest . The movie its humor is very simple and also predictable but executed brilliantly by Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy . Especially the scene in which the two boys try to get in bed , which last at least 5 minutes , is one to remember and Laurel & Hardy hilarity at its best and purest form . Although the movie its humor and moments are rather stretched out , the movie never really becomes tiresome to watch . More than in other early Laurel & Hardy comedy shorts , the supporting cast also plays an important part when it comes to the humor . The movie is filled with comical moments , that don't even feature the two boys in it . Among the supporting cast is Laurel & Hardy regular Baldwin Cooke and movie icon Paulette Goddard . Talk about movie history ! This movie is definitely better than Laurel & Hardy's other work from the ' 20's . It's humor and characters already have the shape and form as their later and best work from the early ' 30's .
James Cagney goes on the dancing tour .	James Cagney is best known for his tough characters - and gangster roles but he has also played quite a lot ' soft ' characters in his career . This musical is one of them and it was the first but not the last musical movie Cagney would star in . Cagney is even doing a bit of singing in this one and also quite an amount of dancing . And it needs to be said that he was not bad at it . He plays the role with a lot of confidence . He apparently had some dancing jobs in his early life before his acting career started to take off big time , so it actually isn't a weird thing that he also took on some musical acting roles in his career . He obviously also feels at ease in this totally different genre than most people are accustomed to seeing him in . The movie is directed by Lloyd Bacon , who was perhaps among the best and most successful director within the genre . His earliest ' 30's musicals pretty much defined the musical genre and he also was responsible for genre movies such as " 42nd Street " . His musicals were always light and fun to watch and more comedy like than anything else really . ' 30's musicals never were really about its singing , this was something that more featured in ' 40's and later made musicals , mainly from the MGM studios . As usual it has a light and simple story , set in the musical world , that of course is also predictable and progresses in a formulaic way . It nevertheless is a fun and simple story that also simply makes this an entertaining movies to watch . So do the characters and actors that are portraying them . Sort of weird though that that the total plot line of the movie gets sort of abandoned toward the end of the movie , when the movie only starts to consists out of musical number routines . The musical moments toward the ending of the movie are also amusing and well done , even though I'm not a too big fan of the genre itself . Once again the musical numbers also feature a young Billy Barty . he often played little boys / babies / mice and whatever more early on in his career , including the movie musical " Gold Diggers of 1933 " , of one year earlier . A recommendable early genre movie .
Fun , entertaining and spectacular .	Of all the cop-buddy movies , the Lethal Weapon series is the best of the bunch . The reason for this is very simple ; Mel Gibson , Danny Glover and Richard Donner . The three of them form a golden trio and makes the movie entertaining and memorable . To be honest the story of this movie is pretty standard action-movie stuff and fairly uninteresting to follow . But this is one of those movies were the story comes totally secondary and the power of the movie is in its main characters and their chemistry they have on the silver screen . They make you forget the story and make you sit back , relax and just enjoy this professionally made action-comedy . Both Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are acting wonderful in this movie . They are believable in their roles and give the characters some real depth and sense of credibility . It's rare for good actors to play the main role in action movies , since action movies ( especially in the ' 80's ) always have a though and cool main character in it . " Lethal Weapon " is an exception and it is an action movie with realistic main characters in it , of flesh and blood and with real emotions and personalities . It makes " Lethal Weapon " a very original action movies that has been much imitated ever since but has never been surpassed yet , by any other action movie franchise . Gary Busey plays a good typical ' Gary Busey villain role ' . Whatever happened to his career by the way ? I rarely ever see him in new movies anymore . A real shame because he is one of those typical actors that can basically play a villain in whatever movie comes on his path and whatever his role is . The action is fairly good but it's typical ' 80's stuff ' . There are some spectacular sequences but in general it all is nothing really memorable . The main essence of the movie is truly on the entertainment value , rather than on its action . All in all this is a fun and entertaining action movie that is a ' classic ' thanks to it's two main characters , perfectly played by Gibson and Glover , who have some great chemistry and thanks to Richard Donner's directing , who with this movie delivers yet another entertaining and fun movie that is very likable .
Extremely likeable action movie .	Sharp knives , big guns , awesome fights , great dialogue , wonderful characters and Selma Hayek looks better then ever . These are just a few reasons why I like this movie . " Desperado " is more than an action movie . It has tons of fun in it which makes the movie extremely likeable to watch . The action is way over the top but it works very well since the movie obviously doesn't take itself serious . It's fun and cool to watch at the same time . " Desperado " is a kind of movie that really needs no story and basicily there isn't really any . All the fun characters , dialogue and action sequences make you forget that there isn't really a story . The Quentin Tarantino cameo is especially entertaining and so are almost every Mexican bad guy that are all in one way or another over the top . A must see , in my opinion .
Does everything right the first did wrong .	" Spider-Man 2 " is an huge improvement over " Spider-Man " . In my comment for " Spider-Man " I complained about several things . One of my biggest complaints was that it was a movie that looked great from the outside but was shallow and empty on the inside . " Spider-man 2 " looks great from the outside AND from the inside . The depths and emotions are handled better as in " Spider-Man " and the characters have become more interesting . Sam Raimi still tries to make the movie more than just a superhero movie but difference with his other movies " Spider-Man " and " Darkman " is that it works this time , even though the whole ' spider-man quiting ' thing was a bit cliché and perhaps not needed . The main thing of this movie is to entertain . The characters have become far more entertaining and there is far more humor added , something I'm extremely happy about . Also the villain has improved big time Alfred Molina's Doc Ock is far better than Willem Dafoe's Green ' plastic mask ' Goblin . The villain is cooler and more entertaining and Alfred Molina himself does a better acting job than Willem Dafoe did . Still I was glad to see Willem Dafoe in a small role in this movie , as long as he doesn't start wearing that ' Power ranger ' outfit again . Another thing that has improved is the action . " Spider-man " was seriously lacking some good action scene's , luckily " Spider-Man 2 " is filled with some spectacular action and some great fights between Spider-Man and Doc Ock along with some great looking special effects . The ending leaves the door open for a lot more Spider-Man sequels and after seeing " Spider-Man 2 " I'd say ; Bring them on !
By the powers , they actually got it right this time !	" X-Men " was a bit of a disappointment to me . Don't get me wrong it was entertaining and fun but it didn't had the right comic book / cartoon feeling to me . " X2 " is an huge improvement and it really surprised me how good this movie was ! One of the surprises of the year ! Advantage of " X2 " is that it doesn't have to waste time on character introduction because it begins were " X-Men " had ended . As a result the action starts right away ! And what an action this movie has , the opening attack of Nightcrawler is truly spectacular and an achievement in movie making . The movie has many , many more spectacular fights of which you never get bored and that are all done wonderfully . But not only the action has improved . Also the character have improved in a major way . Storm and Jean Grey have finally become much more interesting and had a bigger role to play , especially Jean Grey plays an important part this time . Also the story has improved a lot . It is a much more interesting story compared to the first movie and it actually has the same feeling as the comics / cartoons , something the first movie was also lacking . I also like how they " teamed up " Magneto and Mystique with the x-men this time . Another thing that had improved was the music . I'm sorry to say but Michael Kamen's score for " X-Men " was simply not good and didn't fitted the movie . John Ottman's " X2 " score suits the movie much better and even gives it a more " superhero " feeling . So all in all there are only improvements and there isn't much negative to say . Great action , great characters , great story , great movie ! Bring on part 3 . . . and 4 and 5 and . . . See it , even if you didn't liked the first one very much , this movie is an huge improvement .
I'm both surprised and impressed .	Although the previous 3 Harry Potter movies were good as entertainment , I probably never was the biggest fan of the movie franchise . The previous movies all had their flaws , mainly with the pace and character treatment . However " Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire " seems to do everything right , what the previous did wrong . I was surprised as well as impressed with this fourth Harry Potter establishment . The main characters in " Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire " are maturing and luckily so is the movie and its story . Harry Potter and friend face beside the usual problems ( Voldemort , the Malfoy's , some evil school teachers ) also a whole new different sort of problem ; puberty . Hermione has her occasional mood swings and easily gets agitated and Ron seems to be more interested in the girls at school ( especially the French ) than in brewing potions . It all gives the main characters a totally humane face and suddenly makes us look differently at them and we realize that they're growing up fast now . It makes the movie a whole lot more realistic and it's easier for the viewer as well to identify with the main characters . There were several problems with the previous three Harry Potter movies . One was occasionally the pace . It was offbeat at times and there were some unnecessary characters and subplots in them . The pace in " Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire " however is fantastic . It doesn't waste any time and everything happens very quick and the movie feels very consistent . " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " had the problem that it took itself far too serious . It was a good movie but there was little fun and things to enjoy in it . " Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire " however is far more humor filled and in fact is the Harry Potter movie with the most humor in it as of yet . It are not childish jokes but instead consist out of very well constructed and realistic comical situations and dialogs . It makes the movie very entertaining and pleasant to watch , even though the movie itself is just as dark , if not darker , as " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " . Yes , this really is a PG-13 rating movie . There are some scary moments in it and finally also Lord Voldemort transforms into a far more threatening , convincing and scary , almost horror-like looking villain . He also is perfectly scary and villainous portrayed by actor Ralph Fiennes . There was always a big difference between the adult cast and young cast . Both seemed like a different separated class and they never really felt completely as a whole . This time however the young cast perfectly blends in with the adults , which is I think mainly due to the way of directing by Mike Newell . I have the feeling that previous Harry Potter directors tried to impress the viewers with the big well known adult cast that had many well known names in them . " Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire " however focuses more on the three young main characters and Harry Potter himself in particular in this case . The adult cast this time really play nothing more than the sidekicks of the movie and that's also the way it should be I think . The Harry Potter movies are all about the three main characters and it makes a whole lot more sense of the movie to focus mainly just on them . The screen time with the adult cast has surprisingly cut down , compared to all the previous two movies . Some people might be disappointed by this but I'm of opinion that this was the right step for the story and also the entire movie franchise in particular . But yes , of course the adult cast is still impressive to watch , they just had been given lesser chance to shine this time . I'm especially glad Alan Rickman and Jason Isaacs returned and reprized their roles . But the movie also has some fresh new names in it , such as ; Miranda Richardson , Brendan Gleeson and the earlier mentioned Ralph Fiennes . They are a welcome addition to the already impressive cast list . The story itself is exciting , mysterious and fun as well to watch . The movie is perfectly constructed and also has some fine looking special effects , consumes and sets . It's a fine adventurous and more serious movie to watch for both young ones and adults , even though the movie occasionally gets to scary and serious for the very young ones probably . It does all the little thing the previous three movies did wrong , right this time . It makes " Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire " so far the best , most realistic , most thrilling and exciting Harry Potter movie yet .
Even more beautiful as part 1 .	This is an even more beautiful looking documentary than was the case with the first Riefenstahl 1936 Olympics documentary " Olympia 1 . Teil - Fest der Völker " . Perhaps it's because this movie focuses more on the more gracious looking sports , than was the case in the first movie , which focused purely on the sports being played within the Olympic stadium . Or perhaps it's also because the Netherlands actually won some gold medals in this part ; ) . This movie mostly focuses on all of the other sport being played outside of the stadium , indoors and outdoors . Sports such as fencing , boxing , swimming , hockey and everything else you can expect during the Olympics . Most sports are still featured now days at the Olympics . It's of course great seeing all those rs and how they were being played back then in 1936 . Some things ( for the better ) have really changed . Because of the more wide diversity of sports , the documentary also seems like it's going faster as well . Basically every 5 minutes we get to see a completely different sport , being set also at a totally different location again . It also perhaps makes all more exciting to watch as well . Just like " Olympia 1 . Teil - Fest der Völker " it's a beautifully shot documentary , that set the standards for future documentary making . Leni Riefenstahl was a real pioneer in documentary making , regardless of what you think of her motives . Many of the used techniques are now common to the filming of sports . This movie also definitely feels less propaganda like than was still the case with " Olympia 1 . Teil - Fest der Völker " . It still remains a weird sight though , seeing German officers helping out the athletes , as Olympic officials . This of course got very all well organized and planned out by Nazi authorities , which basically used the 1936 as one big piece of propaganda . At least it doesn't show as much of Hitler ( actually no Hitler at all ) and Nazi flag waving as was the case in the first part . A great and important achievement in the filming of sport and documentary making in particular , from Leni Riefenstahl .
The rise and fall of a porn star . - A surprisingly epic movie .	I wasn't sure what to expect from this movie at first . I expected this movie to be a fun and non-serious one . After all the movie its premise and concept seems at first sight like fun comedy material rather than heavy dramatic stuff . Overall the movie did had a fun and non-serious feeling and atmosphere all over it but the movie is not without good and powerful dramatic moments as well . The movie and its story even take epic proportions at times , especially in the movie its second halve . You can say that this movie really surprised me in a positive about how good it was and it surely surpassed all my expectations . Basically this movie is a great example of good storytelling . It takes its time to set out the lines . Lots of characters are introduced and the movie takes its time to develop every one of them . The first halve of the movie sets up things and it does this in a pretty lighthearted and fun way , with lots of crazy over-the-top , stereotypical characters . Once the second halve kicks in the movie becomes more dramatic and serious . It all works surprisingly powerful and effective . Surprising , since it's obviously in contrast with the first halve of the movie . " Boogie Nights " is a well balanced movie that gets heavy and serious but never without its overall fun lighthearted atmosphere . The characters and situations force you to not take this movie serious , no matter how heavy and dramatic it gets . In this case that is not a bad thing , since it all is so extremely well balanced . It's like the one thing helps to make the other better in this movie , instead of working distracting from - or making it not credible . The movie also does a very good job at recreating the feeling , look and atmosphere of the ' 70's . It does this of course with its clothes , sets and facial hair but also with more subtle things such as its dialog . It all helps to make " Boogie Nights " a very style-full looking movie with a creative feeling and atmosphere of its own . It does a good and creative job at keeping the nudity and sex sequences to a minimum , although it of course is impossible to keep out all the nudity and controversy . That is simply impossible , since the movie is about a controversial subject . The movie provides a good refreshing and I think also realistic ( ? ) look into the world of porn in the ' 70's and ' 80's , when the video's and cinematic adult movies were new and popular . It however does this in a respectful way without making really any fun of it . It's highly tempting to turn a movie set in the ' 70's into a satirical comedy of that era . It does make fun of several things , such as the typical ' 70's television series but the movie never turns into a full satire . The movie is filled with some wonderful and well known actors , who all give a very good performance . Many big names are involved and that says something about the quality of the Oscar nominated script , that obviously inspired and impressed the fine actors involved . Mark Wahlberg shows that he can handle a big and heavy carrying role . He shows his qualities and skills in this movie . Also really great were Burt Reynolds and Julianne Moore , who both were nominated for an Oscar as well . Other fine roles are being portrayed by good and well known actors such as Heather Graham , John C . Reilly , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Don Cheadle , Thomas Jane , Luis Guzmán and Alfred Molina . Yes , it certainly is true that there are many and perhaps too many characters in the movie . It tries too follow one or two too many plot lines with as a result that not everything and everyone works out quite well enough . This perhaps is the only flaw in this otherwise great , wonderful , compelling and powerful movie . A fun to watch but yet also wonderful compelling and powerful movie about the rise and fall of a porn star in the ' 70's / ' 80's . A movie that takes surprising epic proportions ! Certainly among the very best movies of the ' 90's .
Stylish horror classic .	Along with " Alien " this is the most stylish horror movie I have ever seen . This version of Dracula is different from others since this movie is based on a play . There are still some surprises and interesting elements even if you have seen some of the other many Dracula movies that has been made and in many ways this movie is better then all the other Dracula movies . One of the reasons why is the cast . Bela Lugosi with his crazy accent puts quite some passion in his role and Dwight Frye is simply amazing as Renfield . But the rest of the cast is also more than excellent . The acting is different from other movies made at the time , the acting can be described as timeless and even after more than 70 years it is still not outdated . But there are of course many other things that are outdated . Such as especially the special effects of course . An interesting element in this movie was the gentlemen battle between Dracula and Van Helsing . There was really some chemistry in the scene's between those two and there was a real tension without them both fighting eachother . There was a really nice moody atmosphere that was very stylish . The great sets and locations contributed to this . But also the cinematography was wonderful and I especially like the way they filmed the character of count Dracula it was done really well ! But of course an old movie like this is far from flawless . At times there are some serious pacing problems and it was a bit weird to see Renfield walk around freely in the house most of the time and there are dozens of more tiny things like this that makes the movie far from perfect . Still there are lot of things that compensate this and make this movie a real horror classic and a must see . Still after many years of movie making the best Dracula movie ever made and the movie leaves no question about it that Bela Lugosi is and always will be the one and only Dracula as much as I love Christopher Lee as Dracula . . .
Close to perfect .	Even though the story is probably less impressive - and overdone when compared to the other Wallace & Gromit shorts , it still probably is my favorite . It's simply such a fine and entertaining movie to watch , not in the least because it has Preston , the evil villain dog in it and a whole bunch of sheep . It's an impressive looking movie , with some surprising big sequences . What I always love about the Wallace & Gromit movies is that they often feature some amazing build-up and shot action sequences and chases in particular . It's often worth the price alone already . This was the second Wallace & Gromit short to win an Oscar for best animated short , which not only proofs the quality and entertainment level of the Wallace & Gromit shorts but shows as well that you don't need a big budget or impressive new techniques to make a brilliant animated movie with . The claymation is impressive as always and has lots of details to it . It must be an incredibly time consuming but also incredibly rewarding process to make a movie like this . Nick Park must surely enjoy it . He's in the claymation business for over 20 years now , together with Peter Lord . This movie takes some chance to add another human character to the movie . All of the previous Wallace & Gromit movies were mostly purely about the strange friendship between the man and dog , in which the dog always seemed like the more clever and rational of the two . This gamble however worked out fine for the movie and the added love-story plot actually adds a lot to the movie . As a matter of fact , after this movie Wallace had many more love-interests in later Wallace & Gromit adventures , such as the big theatrical released " Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit " and the latest short " Wallace and Gromit in ' A Matter of Loaf and Death ' " . It of course are not just the human characters that make this movie but also really the animals . Preston the dog is such a great and evil movie villain . The sheep in this movie also provide the movie with lots of hilarious moments and they are cute looking as well . perhaps my favorite Wallace & Gromit short .
Like playing in a movie !	Not as superior as the Medal of Honor series but still an excellent game ! The most original thing about " Call of Duty " is the story . The story gives you the feeling you're watching a movie were you are in control of . The levels aren't just levels were you have to go from point A to B and shoot everything and everyone on your way . The levels are scenario's in which there is always something going on and surprises wait around every corner . The levels are filled with great many moments and surprises in which you have to fight for your live and that of your buddies . It really gives you a movie feeling , it's no wonder once you know that the story was written by professional movie writer Michael Schiffer who also wrote the screenplay for " Crimson Tide " , " The Peacemaker " and the recent movie " The Four Feathers " . The amazing soundtrack by the excellent Michael Giacchino also add to the movie feeling of the game . The music is written like it's made for a movie scene instead of for a game level . Some tracks even surpass the music Giacchino did for the Medal of Honor games . The music is not spectacular or exciting ( like he did for the Medal of Honor games ) but emotional instead , which is probably one of the reasons why it gives the game an extra movie like feeling . The music for when you have to hold the Pegasus bridge until reinforcements arrive and the music when you storm the Reichstag in Berlin especially stand out . Giacchino isn't called the new John Williams for no reason . The levels like I said before are excellent . There is a high variety of levels in which you don't only play as Americans but also as British and Russian soldiers . Some of the levels uses elements and moments from the HBO mini-series " Band of Brothers " and especially from the movie " Enemy at the Gates " . And then the sound . My God the sound ! The game has probably the best sound I ever heard done for a game . It really gives you the feeling like you are in the middle of WW II and need to dodge bullets and mortars all the time . The gameplay however isn't that good , especially not once you're used to games like Medal of Honor . And the fact that you can only carry 2 weapons at the time ( + pistol and grenades ) surly adds to the realism of the game but not to the fun of it . It's not a game you quickly play over and over again once you have finished but luckily the multiplayer option gives the game an high play-ability level . The maps are fun and you can choose between many play options such as SD ( search and destroy ) and DM ( death match ) or the original BEL ( behind enemy lines ) option . I even liked the game better once I found out that Giovanni Ribisi and Earl Boen were part of the voice cast . I'm eagerly awaiting the first add-ons !
A story of all times .	This 1931 Jean Renoir French movie has a story of all times . It's about a man who falls for the wrong girl and gets deeper and deeper into problems because of it . What can be more lethal than a woman ? The drama is complex and multiple layered and mostly works out so well in this movie since the story by no means is a standard formulaic one . The movie does a very good job at remaining an unpredictable one throughout its entire running time and you just never know how the movie is going to end or in which direction its heading to . Jean Renoir was one the greatest early French movie directors from the 20th century . With this movie he makes his first ' talkie ' . It's notable in parts that this was still all fairly new and all for him and there are some small clumsiness's . He fairly much keeps the same style as movie-making he used for his earlier silent productions . This is mostly notable with the compositions within this movie . Not that this is a bad thing in my opinion . It gives the movie a great look and style that also seems really fitting for this particular movie and its story . It's a great looking movie with high production values . The camera-work is just great and the movie in parts also uses some great editing , that shows a scene from different camera angles . It doesn't do this throughout the entire movie though , since like I said before , the movie mostly keeps is made silent-movie style . Perhaps it was an early sign of things that yet had to come for Jean Renoir , when he in 1937 with " La Grande illusion " , that used lots of deep focus and camera-movements , something that also heavily inspired Orson Welles , among others , which is also really notable in " Citizen Kane " of course . Michel Simon gives away one fine performance as the movie its main character but the rest of the actors in acting within this movie is perhaps a bit uneven . But perhaps this also had to do with the fact that this was Jean Renoir's first sound movie and he had to become yet accustomed to working with dialogs and actors performing them . Unfortunately the movie uses some of its speed toward the ending but the movie at all times remains interesting and compelling enough to make you keep watching and just loving this movie right till the very end . A great first sound movie from Jean Renoir .
Great consistent Laurel & Hardy comical short .	Tiny problem with most Laurel & Hardy movies is that most of them have some weaker scene's and moments in them . " Come Clean " however is a wonderful exception to this and it's a movie that manages to stay consistent throughout its entire running time . All of the sequences are very well constructed and are highly amusing . Also some of the slapstick moments are not original but certainly entertaining . The movie also has some great comical spoken lines , which mainly involves Stan Laurel . Also Mae Busch shows her comical talent and her character gets the boys into some serious hilarious trouble . Mae Busch appeared also in several other comical Laurel & Hardy short's such as " Them Thar Hills " , " Oliver the Eighth " and " Unaccustomed As We Are " . One of the better Laurel & Hardy comical short's .
Great cast and script !	" Ocean's Eleven " is a very fun and stylish heist movies with a wonderful cast and clever script that provides more than enough surprises and fun twists . The movie is just mainly fun as it is meant to be , it is no Oscar material or anything . I think Steven Soderbergh ( who also wrote and did the cinematography for this movie ) really used his big name to get together such a great cast with big names such as : George Clooney , Matt Damon , Brad Pitt , Julia Roberts , Elliott Gould and Andy Garcia . All of the actors portray some fun and enjoyable characters . Characters such as Yen , Virgil and Turk Malloy and Basher Tarr , which are the most enjoyable . If you liked " The Italian Job " ( 2003 ) you'll love " Ocean's Eleven " . Hopefully " Ocean's Twelve " will be just as good , or maybe even better .
A great treat .	Guess I really like this sort of period movies , about the British upper-class in the 17th century . The movies have an own unique kind of style and atmosphere over them . This especially really goes for this unique little film . it's a very witty movie and halve way through it also becomes obvious exactly how intelligently the movie is written and constructed . At first it doesn't look like the movie is heading anywhere and it's merely a good and enjoyable movie filled with some slightly subtle eccentric and quirky characters . But about halve way through it becomes clear that the intentions within the story and the intentions of the characters have way more in to them , when the movie becomes more of a murder-mystery and layered and the character's motivations all start to take form and become clear . It makes the movie surprisingly and delightful . It's a really well constructed and visually crafted movie from Peter Greenaway . The movie doesn't have the Jane Austen kind of story and approach but more like " Barry Lyndon " with the same certain quirkiness in it , if I need to compare it to anything else . The movie has a sort of a surreal kind of atmosphere over it , which gets strengthened all the more by the outrageous costumes and wigs , thick accents and extremely difficult but beautiful to listen to - dialog and of course the special kind of characters that are in the movie . It's also a very sexy and sort of erotic movie to watch at , with almost always a sort of sexual tension in the atmosphere during the entire movie , despite not having any real nudity or explicit nude scene's in it . The whole movie is almost entire filmed in a stage-play kind of approach , with no moving camera's and long sequences filled with dialog . Really the sort of stuff you normally experience during a stage-play . It all adds up to the reasons why this movie is a quite unique and delightful little movie to watch . This movie is a great watch , as long as you're capable of handling the long and difficult dialog and the more stage-play kind of storytelling .
Most excellent comedy .	This movie is a rare good comedy that unfortunately not many people know . The movie is full with crazy and awesome characters such as Milton , Bob & Bob , Brian and many more . The cast portrays the characters excellent . Especially Ron Livingston grabbed my attention , before this movie I only knew him as Capt . Nixon from the mini-series " Band of Brothers " but I now fully appreciate him as an actor , he was the perfect leading man . The character of the mumbling Milton is the funniest even though his role seems in the beginning totally superfluous , his character plays an important part in the ending . However the character of Bill Lumbergh is the best , he's excellent portrayed by Gary Cole , he plays a stereotype office boss . There is a nice comical story with some great moments and some nice dialog . Especially all the Milton scene's are priceless . But was that whole Jennifer Aniston thing really needed ? No , It could have done without the love story in my opinion . There was no point in having one . The movie starts of a bit lame but keep watching , you won't be disappointed . Very recommendable , especially if you work at a big office yourself .
" You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view . . . Until you climb inside of his skin and walk around in it . "	I always thought that " To Kill a Mockingbird " was nothing more than a court-drama . A predecessor of " A Time to Kill " if you like , however the movie turned out to be much more than a court-drama . The movie is truly about and told from the point of view of the children , growing up in the depression-era of the ' 30's in a small racial divided Alabama town . The story is told beautifully and takes it time to tell the story in a good suitable slow pace . The emotions of the movie are truly gripping and all have a very real , realistic feeling . The fact that the story is told through the eyes of a child makes it even more effective . All the scene's with the children feel very realistic and should bring back some childhood memories . The way their playing outside with each other should is especially recognizable . The movie has several subplots . The scene's with Atticus Finch and his defense of the black man who is accused of raping a white woman is one of them but the movie never looses its focus on Atticus his two children Jem and Scout who truly are the main characters of the movie . The children have to deal with the loss of their mother , their fears and prejudices . The way these things are handled make " To Kill a Mockingbird " a powerful and important movie . Gregory Peck is mostly excellent as the ordinary but yet highly admirable Atticus Finch , who besides his own personal problems and that as a lawyer also fights to hide the ugly things of the world for his children . Also really excellent were the child actors . Especially Mary Badham as Scout deeply impressed me . It's no wonder that the then year old received an Oscar nomination . Peck received a nomination and unlike Bedham he also got the take the statue home with him . Other Oscar wins for this movie were Best Art Direction-Set Decoration , Black-and-White and Best Writing , Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium . Also of course worth mentioning is the very good musical score by Elmer Bernstein . This one is among his best work of his lifetime . Is there nothing wrong with this movie ? Unfortunately yes , even though I still consider this a classic and one of the most memorable and impressive movies it is not a perfect one . It's obvious that this movie is based on a book and some typical book elements are present throughout the movie that don't really work out the way they're supposed to , such as the entire ' Boo ' Radley ( played by Robert Duvall , in his very first movie role ! ) story at the end of the movie . Also the whole ' Boo ' Radley thing feels a bit old fashioned and perhaps a bit too over-the-top . A movie that you should experience at least once in your lifetime .
Top class entertainment in a perfect campy environment .	" Little Shop of Horrors " really is a movie that is fun to watch over and over again . I'm not a big musical fan but I can appreciate a classic like " Grease " , " The Rocky Horror Picture Show " and a good Disney movie . " Little Shop of Horrors " is also on my list of classic musicals . It was a good move by director Frank Oz to make the sets campy and musical like . It gives the movie an excellent feeling and atmosphere . Also the way of acting is very campy and over the top which works excellent for the movie . The movie is filled with some nice cameo's by famous actors . My favorite cameos are by John Candy and Bill Murray both as excellent and fun characters that are good for some serious laughs . The other most fun character is played by Steve Martin in one of his best and most fun roles I've ever seen him in . I can't say that I'm a big fan of all of the songs but still there are some good songs in the movie which makes it a successful and pleasant musical to watch and listen to .
Great characters in a fun adventure !	" Ice Age " gives us a sabertooth tiger , a sloth , and a mammoth and lets them go on an adventure . The result is a fun and entertaining movie . The absolute greatest thing about the movie are the characters . The unlikely trio forms the base of the movie and are wonderful together , also thanks to the voice cast of course , especially the character Sid voiced by John Leguizamo is highly entertaining . Also Scrat the squirrel that pops up every now and then is funny and adorable . The animations itself are pretty poor compared to many other animated movies . Especially the humans look kind of sloppy as well as most of the backgrounds . Luckily it doesn't make the movie less watchable in any way . It's a shame that the movie becomes a bit over sentimental at times , especially at the ending . It doesn't quite fit in with the rest of the movie and feels a bit overdone . Still the undertone of the movie is mainly fun and entertaining . Great movie to watch over and over again !
How the domino's fell .	If you want to know all about the Watergate scandal but you're too lazy to read a book or watch a documentary , like 80 % of the world's population , this movie is the ultimate resource to learn all about Watergate . The movie now has a perfect educational value now days , though at the time when it was made , the movie was made for different motivations , since it was all still quite fresh back then . The movie is of course the ultimate example of the power of the press but the movie is also most definitely about the power of politics . The story of the two reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein begins quite innocent but the further they dig into the story the deeper and higher they get , when they learn who are all involved in the cover-up , which of course eventually even leaded to the resignation of president Nixon . They are being triggered by the vague and contradicting comments people they call and meet make . They smell something big and they completely set their teeth in the investigation and their attempts to find sources and let people get on the record , with of course the mysterious Deep Throat as their most famous and highest ranking source , though this didn't get revealed until the time that deputy director of the FBI Mark Felt in 2005 revealed that he was the source they called Deep Throat , which before that remained one of the biggest journalistic - and modern history in general mystery . The story even becomes detective-like , when they step-by-step investigate to get the next piece of the puzzle , so they can get further with their journalistic investigation to uncover who are all involved and how high it actually goes . So in essence the movie often repeats itself with its events but yet manages to remain absolutely compelling and even exciting , due to the way of lively directing and also thanks to the fine acting from the many great actors that are in the movie . It's a political movie , meaning that it features lots of talking , names and difficult words . Yet the movie always remains perfectly good to follow , which is I think mainly due to the compelling storytelling of the movie . You can thank director Alan J . Pakula and writer William Goldman for that . And I'm not even a Alan J . Pakula but this movie is just one great and relevant classic . But also the fine acting definitely helps and gets the movie some extra flair . Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman are absolutely great together as journalists Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein . They are totally different characters with different backgrounds and ideals but yet they form a perfect investigating team . Jason Robards also plays a great role ( Oscar win ) and so does Jane Alexander ( Oscar nomination ) , who's role isn't the biggest but still a very relevant one and Hal Holbrook is still the ultimate Deep Throat . I especially love how authentic the acting in the movie felt . The actors obviously messed up their lines at times , which forced them to correct themselves . I just love how they decided to keep it in the movie , to give it all a more authentic feeling . The entire movie feels authentic , also since it tells the story purely from the point of view of the two reporters . It of course also totally fits within the realistic ' 70's style of film-making . The movie felt with many long sequence's and uses authentic lighting and make-up . The movie easily could had been 3 hours long but instead the movie is a more acceptable 138 minutes long . The final sequence of the movie perfectly shows , in just one minute time , how all the domino's fell after the published story . A really great and creative sequence and ending in my opinion . The ultimate educational movie about the Watergate scandal and an example and inspiration for great journalism .
Two hilarious movies in one .	The two parts of the movie have absolutely nothing to do with each other but that's no complaint , since the two part each are absolutely hilarious and well constructed . The timing is perfect . It is especially the second part of the movie , the huge pie fight , which most people will remember . Basically everyone in town gets involved in the pie fight ; the mayor , a costumer at the barbershop , a sewer worker , a person at the dentist . It's silly , it makes no sense that everybody in town gets hit perfectly in the face with a pie but it works oh so hilarious ! I don't know why but pie and food fights in movies are always hilarious . Just think about movies like " The Great Race " and " Blazing Saddles " . But really , the first part of the movie is also more than great , in which Stan is in a boxing match against Thunder-Clap Callahan played by Noah Young . That guy is great ! He is so intense and has great scary eyes . I think he would had done great in horror movies but I don't know whether or not he ever appeared in one ? Don't think so , because to my knowledge he only ever worked for the Hal Roach studio's . A must see 2 part silent comical short with Laurel & Hardy in top-form .
A magnificent imaginative movie .	This movie has an absolutely magnificent imaginative story . The movie perfectly creates an unique post-apocalyptic world with some wonderful settings and strong characters . The movie is filled with some wonderful and certainly unique moments . Really the best element of the movie is truly the story . I have to admit that in the beginning I wasn't exactly grabbed or fascinated by the movie its story , characters and settings . However as the movie progressed I got more and more drawn into the movie and its story and characters and the unique world the movie was set in . The second halve of the movie , when the real action begins and the story takes more form , is especially extremely good . There are some fine action - and tense moments in the movie and the ending is build up very well and is truly both spectacular and adventurous to watch . Kudos to Hayao Miyazaki ! There are some really good characters in this movie . Princes Nausicaä is a strong heroic female lead and the movie features some good sidekicks , such as characters that provide comical moments , the wise man Yupa , who in several ways resembles Gandalf from The Lord of the Rings and of course the villains who are often so important in movies like this one . It are all very stereotypical characters who work very well for the movie its story . The characters are build up nicely and because of that they work really well for the movie . The movie is an beautiful unique and wonderful experience to watch . It's spectacular , imaginative , powerful and beautiful all at the same time . It's truly something you have to experience for yourself ! It's no surprise that I can whole-heartedly recommend this movie to everyone . You don't have to be into anime movies , to be able to appreciate and enjoy this movie . Be sure the watch the original Japanese , 116 minutes version of the movie though , for the most optimal movie experience .
Great characters and story .	What makes this movie so powerful and great are mainly its characters . The characters are well constructed and are mainly the reason why this movie is so unforgettable . Some of the characters are quite odd looking , even by anime standards but they are so wonderfully constructed that they all become believable . The story is just totally brilliant . It's odd but oh so beautiful . The imaginary world gives the movie a totally unique and beautiful look and feeling . It all helps to make " Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi " an unique and unforgettable viewing experience . The beauty in the movie is in its unpredictability . Because its so unique and original , you never know what to expect next and everything comes as a pleasant surprise . My only complaint about the story is its love-story , if there even was meant to be one , wasn't really believable and felt underdeveloped and like a missed opportunity . It all is beautiful animated and with lots of eye for detail and I'm talking about both the characters and the imaginary world . It helps to make you believe in the totally imaginary world and the story . The musical score by Joe Hisaishi is just fantastic and fits the movie very well . This is once more another Hayao Miyazaki masterpiece . Once more he has succeeded in creating a unique , original and totally believable world , story and characters . It's both beautiful and unforgettable .
The price of being honest .	This movie tells the intriguing story of mainly two normal individuals and their struggle to unveil the truth behind the lies of the tobacco industry , to the world . Michael Mann movies are often told slowly but they are never boring . This is due to the intensity it is told with , the realistic cinematography by Dante Spinotti and the editing by three different editors . On top of that the two main actors constantly keep the movie in motion . Russell Crowe and Al Pacino are both outstanding actors and are truly dynamite in this movie . Both are acting so powerful that they take the movie to an even higher level . Another fine ' villainish ' role is played by Michael Gambon and lets please also not forget the wonderful Christopher Plummer as Mike Wallace . The way of story telling makes the movie intense and tense at the same time . Only a director like Michael Mann could pull this of . It makes " The Insider " truly one of the greatest and most powerful movie of the last couple of years . In my view the movie can be split in two different parts . The first part is about Jeffrey Wigand , his family and the pressure he is put under while the second halve of the picture mainly focuses on Lowell Bergman and his struggle to get the taped interview with Wigand aired on television . The balance between these two parts is perhaps not always perfect and the movie at times focuses a bit too much on Wigand and his family . I know that it is important for the story and the character of Wigand to also tell the story of his family but I felt that at times it took away some of the continuity and pace . The movie works well and shows what the price of just wanting to be honest in a corrupt world can be . A both important and powerful movie .
A most unusual masterpiece .	This movie is extremely odd . Looking at this movie makes it obvious that most of the cast and crew were on drugs during filming . The end movie result , is an unique one of a kind movie experience and quite possible the best Vietnam war movie ever made . It's not a movie for everyone though , guess true movie buffs are the only ones who can truly wholeheartedly appreciate this movie and the ' beauty ' of all the ugliness in the movie . The movie makes a perfect statement as an anti-war movie . It shows the horror of war and what it does to men . I have to admit that my favorite parts of the movie were the ones with action in it . The chopper attack is truly splendid and a real classic moment of movie history . Still this is not really a movie about shooting and fighting . Its more a movie about the emotional struggles of men during war . The struggles of the main character Captain Benjamin L . Willard ( Martin Sheen ) are told in a most excellent , slow , compelling way . He becomes more and more obsessed and interested in the man he is supposed to ' terminate with extreme prejudice ' , during his journey over the river to Cambodia , where Colonel Walter E . Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ) , the man he is supposed to kill , is located . Once the movie progresses it becomes obvious that the journey and the emotional struggles seem to be more difficult and dangerous than the killing of Kurtz . What makes the movie work are the good and realistically brought characters and the actors that portray them . All of the characters are stereotypes in a way , which works extremely well for the movie and its story . Brando is totally flipped in his role as ' crazy ' mumbling Colonel Kurtz and even though his role isn't THAT big ( ironic sentence , considering the fact that Brando was 40kg overweight , for his role ) , he still makes a lasting impression . Also totally crazy is Dennis Hopper in his role as American photojournalist that lives under Kurtz . Robert Duvall also gives a most excellent performance as Lieutenant Colonel Bill Kilgore . Rest of the cast consists out of big names as Harrison Ford , Scott Glenn , G . D . Spradlin and a 14-year old Laurence Fishburne , in one of his first movie roles . The movie has a fantastic and kind if surreal atmosphere , which makes this movie one of the most moody movies ever made , also thanks to the Oscar winning cinematography by Vittorio Storaro . Perhaps the whole story surrounding the making of this movie ( Sheen's heart-attack , the difficult overweight Brando , the drug abuse , the 16 months of filming in the jungle , the three year editing process . ) is more legendary than the movie itself , it still is a classic , one of a kind movie , that might very well be the best Vietnam-war movie ( yet ) .
A jazz singer torn between two , equally important for him , worlds .	Widely know as the first widely released ' talkie ' . The first commercially successful feature-length movie with audible dialog , " The Jazz Singer " tells the story of the son of a Jewish Cantor , who must make the choice to pursue his singing career or carry on his Jewish family traditions and by singing in the synagogue as a Cantor . A tradition in the family , for 5 generations long already . This movie is definitely better than currently given credit for on here . Not that many serious dramas were made in the ' 20's and those that were made can't really match up to this well written and directed movie . Of course the movie is mostly legendary because of the fact that it is widely regarded and accepted as the first ' talkie ' , even though only few lines are actually spoken in the movie and it also isn't the first movie featuring audible dialog . Only the singing sequences have sound and the moments before and after it . When the first talking happens in the movie , it really hits and stuns you . You totally aren't prepared for it , since the movie begins just as purely a silent movie . Just imaging how this would have been for movie goers in the ' 20's . Love to have seen the crowd reaction . A revolutionary step in movie-making , though it took 3 to 4 more years before the silent-era was truly over . Making full length movies with sound added to it , simply was too costly at the time . This movie was an important movie that marked the coming ending of the silent period and introduced the ' talkie ' movies . This movie forms the perfect and symbolic transition between these two completely different movie types . But above all , the movie is just simply good . The story is very well written and features some good drama aspect when a young jazz singer has to make a choice between his family and reunite with his loving mother and his disappointed father who denounced him , or his career on the stage and a life with his great love , the well-known stage performer Mary Dale . It's a well written dramatic story that works well and is effective , especially toward the ending of the movie . It provides the movie with some deeper emotional layers . Of course the acting is totally over-the-top , even though Al Jolson remains very good and likable in his role . Also the heavy make-up and lighting works distracting at times but that's all now part of the charm of it these days . The whole racial problems some persons have with this movie is ridicules . Yes , toward the ending the main character puts on a so called ' blackface ' but this is just part of his performance act . Al Jolson never plays an African-American character in the movie . Back in those days it wasn't uncommon that actors or singers put on a blackface and even black singers did it . People had no problem with it in 1927 but now , 80 years later , people suddenly start having problems with it and consider it racist . Also sort of too bad that most people just remember this movie because of the ' blackface ' , as if its the most significant part of the movie . The movie has so incredibly much more to offer . A movie-historical important - and landmark movie but above all a simply just really great movie on its own !
Fun to watch every day of the year .	This is a Christmas movie that also is very enjoyable to watch outside of the holiday's . Another name for the movie could be " The Bill Murray Show " , he simply makes this movie and I can't even imaging how the movie would have been without him in it . He's amazingly funny and on top of that he also is a wonderful actor . You can see that in some of the scene's he improvised a lot and he did that brilliantly ! All the other actors and characters are merely sidekicks . The story is basically a modern version of the classic Dickens novel " A Christmas Carol " and it's done wonderfully . It's great to see how the the classic story is translated into the 20th century . Everything works very well : The settings , the characters and the events , everything . From the hilarious opening involving Santa Claus and Lee Mayors ( I say no more ) till the wonderful ending the movie delivers non stop fun and pure entertainment with a nice love story , brilliant dialog and a great and important message in it . Only thing is that I feel that the movie could have done without the whole Loudermilk thing , but oh well . . . Very recommendable and close of being perfect .
Delicious pulp !	Yes , " Enter the Dragon " is a typically badly made material arts movie , with a simple almost non-existent story , cheesy dialog , laughable bad dubbing , over-the-top fight sequences and extremely stereotypical characters . You know it't the type of movie in which one of the villains has an huge scar on his face and the other had a prosthetic hand . Yet " Enter the Dragon " is a totally brilliant movie , which is because of more than one reason . Everything works out so well and blends in perfectly with each other . It's delicious pulp ! Material arts movies just never have been the most subtle , greatly written , or most original movies around . Just think about those Jean-Claude Van Damme and Chuck Norris type of movies . I mean basically every movie is always the same . This movie is not much different were it not that this was one of the first real international material arts genre movie and therefor the movie is also genre redefining . It set the standards for the material arts movie genre and its story has been used in many different form and shape ever since . These days its mostly used in comical movies actually . Guess this movie can be best described as material arts meeting James Bond . The story and characters definitely show similarities to the James Bond genre but that does not mean that this movie is just a simple rip-off . It has enough class and style of its own and I wouldn't had mind seeing this turn into a long running series of movies , starring Bruce Lee . That was impossible of course unfortunately . The story is incredibly simple and it's actually also a hard one to believe . I mean really , why would a martial artist ever agree on becoming a spy and infiltrate a criminal organization under the cover of a tournament . However as the movie progresses you just stop caring really about the story and what the movie is all about . You just take it for what it is ; good quality entertainment with Bruce Lee in top form ! It's such a waste he died at such an early age , even weeks before the Hong Kong premiere of this movie . He had the looks , the skills but also certainly the right acting abilities for these type of movies to become an huge international action hero movie star . All of the other actors aren't much special . It's not hard to see why none of them ever had a sparkling acting career , however it's also due to the simple dialog and bad , at times laughable , dubbing that their performance don't quite come across as anything strong or impressive , although Kien Shih does a good job playing the main villain , that's deliciously simple and evil ! As a matter of fact , it also seems that the movie could had been without halve of its characters . I mean exactly what do Roper and Williams add ? And what was the point of having Mei Ling in the movie ? The fight sequences are really brilliantly choreographed by Bruce Lee himself . Every fight on its self forms a highlight of the movie , with of course the well known end fight in the mirror-room as the ultimate highlight . Simply the best of the best , that the genre has to offer !
The great train chase !	The great train chase would perhaps be a better and more suiting title for this movie . The movie is for most part set in a train engine and involved the Buster Keaton in the pursuit of another stolen train by the Union army , during the American Civil War . You would think that a movie that's mostly set in a moving train engine would become tiresome after a while and jokes would start to repeat itself . But it's amazing all the stuff they came up with . What is it with Buster Keaton and trains ? There also is one great long sequences involving a train in his earlier movie " Our Hospitality " . It's a really creative comedy , with always some surprising unexpected insane moments in it . It's way more than just some other slapstick routines . The movie also obviously caused more than most other silent comedy , made during the same era . As a matter of fact the movie actually features the single most expensive shot of the entire silent movie era in it . Buster Keaton himself also once again performances all of his stunts . It aren't his biggest or most spectacular looking stunts but just as dangerous nevertheless . The story was fun and interesting , also since it's partly based on true events during the Civil War . There of course aren't that many Civil War comedies in general , so in that regard this movie already is an original one . The set back of the movie enhances the story , that of course however does not form the most important aspect of the movie . This was Buster Keaton's own personal favorite and it also really is one of his best movies !
A very fun Laurel & Hardy comedy short .	This is one of my favorites . It has lots of fun moments and a great comical premise that features some of the most fun characters ever appeared in a Laurel & Hardy movie . The movie really has a great comical story . Oliver is planning to get married and starts making arrangement at home , which of course he , with the help of his good pal Stanley totally messes things up . However when the father of the bride ( James Finlayson ) she's a picture of the man his daughter is getting married to , he forbids the wedding ( who can blame him ) . For Oliver there is only one solution , elope with his bride so they can get secretly married , with the help from Stanley . But of course nothing is as easy as it seems especially not with Stan helping out . The story provides the movie with multiple great and hilarious comical sequence and moments . There are really moments in the movie that made me laugh out loud . The movie is also made fun thanks to its fine comedy characters . Of course James ' D'oh ' Finlayson is great and his comical timing is excellent . Fun was Babe London as the bride-to-be , who looks disturbingly a lot like Oliver Hardy . At the end of the movie Ben Turpin also shows up as the cross-eyed Justice of the Peace , who provides the movie with even more and harder laughs and a wonderful fun finale . The movie provides some great non-stop laughs , as the movie is fast paced and features lots of quick slapstick moments from the comedy duo and the other characters ( Finlayson mostly , who also gets to lots of comedy work in this one . ) . The movie is set at quite many different locations for Laurel & Hardy standards but it works out for this movie , since the story and slapstick of the movie are so well constructed . They're of course wonderfully timed and executed by the boys and the rest of the supporting cast - and directed by Laurel & Hardy specialist James W . Horne . A great fun comedy short that provides some real solid guaranteed laughs !
What an incredible realistic looking movie .	At the beginning of the movie I was quite worried . I thought ; Oh no , not another movie about a depressive , cold and ugly looking future , in which a common man grows out to be a hero . For the first 30 minutes it really felt like the movie was heading in that direction . Later the movie starts to take a positive turn when the movie becomes less plot orientated and instead turns into an almost documentary like observation of the events happening in the movie . It helps to give the movie its really realistic feeling . The strength of the movie is in how how incredible authentic it all looks and feels . It helps to make the movie make a big impact on you . The movie will probably glue you to the screen for at least its last , really impressive looking , final 30 minutes or so . Even despite its weaker more formulaic opening this movie as a whole knows to totally grab you and leave a really lasting and powerful impression . The camera always stays with the main character , which allows us to see the things as he sees them . I really liked this approach , since it made the movie feel really realistic and puts you right in the middle of everything . You really feel that you're a part of this movie while watching it . This works especially great toward the ending of the movie when the action begins and it really starts to feel like you're watching a war-documentary . The movie features many long shots that at times go on for minutes . This also works great for the movie its realism and it makes sure to grab you and put you right in the middle of things . It provides the movie with some great made and looking moments that are memorable , for sure . Also of course the visual style of the movie adds to the authentic feel of the movie . The Emmanuel Lubezki cinematography ( Oscar nominated , in a great year for cinematography ) is most excellent . The movie subtlety shows ' the future ' , so no flying cars or ray-guns in this movie . There are only small changes in the future and more subtle things such as the way we talk and society lives with its - , almost as if it has accepted , violence . I also like the way animals play a subtle role in this movie , which use can be interpreted in many different ways and some other small elements and references in the movie that have a deeper meaning in it . Yes , the future in this movie is dark , depressive and about a hopeless situation but the movie doesn't do anything to exaggerate it . Also again a reason why this movie feels so incredible realistic . I don't necessarily see " Children of Men " as a warning for the future but more as a persons vision of the future , if the world , environment and society goes on living and changing the way it does now . The movie thank goodness does not have a preachy undertone and it doesn't prominently tries to send out a message to its viewers . And is it me or is Clive Owen getting better with every movie ? What I also love about this movie is that it has a couple of other A-list actors in in it ( Julianne Moore , Michael Caine ) but the movie isn't afraid to treat them like B-list actors . The movie perfectly incorporate its action into the movie . It shows that director Alfonso Cuarón is top of the game when it comes down to action . The movie has action in it many modern action movies would be jealous of but Cuarón knows to feature its action in an humble way , despite its large scale and complexity , to let the action serve in the service of the movie and its story . An absolute essential 2006 viewing and one of the year's best .
Death comes to town .	Not as well known as the English , American , German and French cinema , though cinema from Sweden from the ' 20's was also quite good , interesting and revolutionary . This is a movie that is made great by its story . The story is told in ' A Christmas Carol ' kind of way , in which the death himself confronts the deceased with his past , present and what could have been . It's of course a story that concentrates on morals and it does this very well . The message comes across as very powerful and effective . This is of course also definitely due to the effective directing from the father of Swedish cinema ; Victor Sjöström . The story is based on the novel by other Swedish author Selma Lagerlöf . The story is adapted by Victor Sjöström himself , who perhaps should had taken out a few more elements , to let the story and movie flow better . It perhaps takes a bit too long before the movie starts to take form and the story gets clear but when the movie does take form and pace it becomes a really wonderful one . The movie does not only have a great story , it also is a good looking one . The movie uses some early and effective effects and uses some different color filters to create the right mood and to indicate what it past , present and ' future ' . Sjöström did not only wrote and directed this movie , he also plays the main character . Of course the acting in the movie is over-the-top at times , by todays standards but not as bad as in for instance early German movies was the case . And after all , this movie is more about its story and morals than it is about the acting , so it really doesn't matter much , or distracts . A really great and effective underrated silent-movie classic from Sweden .
Simply the best racing movie ever made .	After 40 years , this still is a very exciting movie to watch , especially obviously for race fans and F1 fans in particular . As weird as it might sound , " Grand Prix " is a real period movie . There is an immense difference between ' 66 Grand Prix racing and present day Formula 1 , in terms of rules , cars and mostly safety regulations . In that regard it makes " Grand Prix " an already outdated and old fashioned looking movie . By todays standards the races and cars in this movie look ancient . In a way it all speaks way more to the imagination , perhaps because of the reason that the sport looked ( and was ) so much more dangerous back then . It makes the movie also very exciting and the races in the movie thrilling . No way a movie like this could be made this present day . The story most definitely isn't the strongest aspect of the movie and it features some typical stereotypical and dramatic elements you could expect from a sport movie but thank goodness that the movie really lays its emphasis on the racing elements of the movie . The movie its story visits some of the best racing tracks in the world , Monte Carlo , Zandvoort , Spa-Francorchamps and Monza . Spa in the movie is still for most part a road circuit and the Monza track has a couple of large and incredibly dangerous banking on it , like a NASCAR track . For a racing fan it already is an huge experience to see this circuits in their old glory . The tracks looked better and were more challenging back then but also way more dangerous than now . None of the tracks still exist in this form present day . Also one of the powerful things about this movie is that everything is real . No miniature or computer generated cars and drivers , this is the real stuff ! Racing movie really don't get more realistic than this , with for most of the time also the real actors racing in the real cars . Again ; No way a movie like this could be made this present day . The movie uses some interesting experimental techniques , some more successful than others by the way , such as in-cockpit cameras and multiple split-screens . It makes the movie a totally unique viewing experience . The crashes in the movie are totally over-the-top but spectacular nonetheless . Seeing cars crashing in the Monte Carlo harbor and flying straight into the water is a spectacular sight . But not only the crashes are spectacular , also the races in general are brought spectacular to the screen . The way of filming puts us right into the cars and directly in the middle of the action . It makes us part of the action during the races , which should get your adrenaline flowing . The acting is the greatest , with the exception of Eva Marie Saint , who was really great . Nevertheless the characters remain good and interesting enough , although they are extremely stereotypical . It also seemed that all of the non-English speaking actors in the movie for halve of the time had no idea what they were saying . They deliver some of the lines in a totally wrong way , like they had no idea what their sentences meant . This goes mostly for Yves Montand but also for Antonio Sabato . But luckily , like I said before , the movie lays its emphasis in the racing elements of the movie , which makes the acting and story comes sort of secondary . For race fans ( and Formala 1 fans in particular ) an absolute must-see ! Race movies don't get any better and more realistic than this one .
Their first full-length feature is one to remember !	This was the first full-length movie from Laurel & Hardy , that last over 1 hour long . Their first effort is definitely one of their better ones . Difference with most other Laurel & Hardy movies is that this one actually has a story and continuity in it . It's more than just one slapstick and comical moment after another and it's obvious that they definitely put lots of effort in the story . The movie is constantly funny although the movie could had done without those musical numbers in my opinion . It's extremely old fashioned and takes the pace right out of the movie . Besides the two boys the movie also has some other memorable characters in it such as Wilfred Lucas as the jail warden , James Finlayson as the jail schoolteacher and Walter Long as fellow prisoner The Tiger . Especially Walter Long stands out in his role and he plays an extremely fun character who of course gives the two an hard time . The movie is very fine constructed and build up to the memorable ending in which one big jail break is attempted . It's pretty violent stuff for Laurel & Hardy standards and I had never thought that I would ever see the two of them holding a gun . The ending is almost action movie like but it of course is also extremely hilarious at the same time . There are quite some returning running gags in the movie that all help to make this movie a very memorable one . Also enough slapstick humor is present so fans of that will also be delighted with this movie .
Oh what fun !	This movie is a real classic not in terms of greatness but more in terms of the entertainment value it has . The movie simply brings perfect swashbuckling entertainment and it is hard to believe at times that the movie was made in 1938 , it still is great , spectacular and fun to watch these days . The movie has a wonderful cast ; Errol Flynn , Olivia de Havilland , Basil Rathbone , Claude Rains . Errol Flynn truly was THE biggest swashbuckler hero of all time , he fits every hero role he plays perfectly . Also Basil Rathbone was memorable in his role . He has got such a great charismatic look . Basil Rathbone is probably best known by most people as playing Sherlock Holmes in several movies . The movie's setting is truly epic and has some great looking sets . Only troubling thing are the costumes . The colors of the costumes are so extremely bright that it almost looks ridicules . It's like they wanted to impress the audience by showing how bright they could bring colors to the big screen . The musical score by Erich Wolfgang Korngold is once more spectacular and memorable . He really was one of the greatest movie composers of all time ! For this movie he received his second Academy Award . This movie further more received Acedemy Awards for its art direction and film editing . Truly the three right Oscar's that it deserved to win . The action and sword-fights might look a bit simple and laughable at times but it still manages to impress at the right times . But seriously , why did they let the merry men keep on jumping on horses from tree's ? It's almost like they put that stunt in every action scene the movie has . The story is told in a good way and it doesn't waste any time on character introduction . We jump right into the action , without knowing exactly what Robin Hood's motivations are but still we immediately understand that he's the hero . Also the love story is handled nicely without ever getting over-the-top or unbelievable in any way . Perfect fun entertainment , even for almost now 70 years later .
Surprisingly brilliant .	What a nice surprise this movie was . Director John Gilling surely knows how to make a well build up thriller with a slow pace but never a dull moment . The movie is extremely well written and has some at times incredibly good dialog . The fact that this movie is based on the true story of Burke and Hare - , two murderers who sold their victims to professor Knox , who uses them for his research , makes the movie even more interesting to watch . This movie is not really an horror movie , I would prefer to describe it as a dark-thriller . The movie doesn't have any scares but it has some well build up tension and a great thriller-story . I think it is more because of the fact that Cushing and Pleasance are in this , that people consider this a horror movie . But please , when watching this movie , don't expect a movie with walking death people or Cushing in a role of a ' Frankenstein ' like professor . The movie is shot in atmospheric black & white . It was wonderful to see both Cushing and Pleasance in black & white for a change . My only complaint about the style is that it is a bit too dark at times , which makes the movie sometimes hard to follow . Peter Cushing is most certainly good in his role as Dr . Robert Knox but it really is Donald Pleasence who uplifts the movie with his performance . This might very well be the best performance of him I have ever seen in a movie . He plays a slimy-tramp who is the lead-murderer of the movie . His character is portrayed so powerful and believable without ever going over-the-top . It really is the way the movie is build up and the wonderful directing by John Gilling that makes this movie an absolutely great thriller that deserves to be better known .
James Cagney as you've never seen him before .	James Cagney is of course best known for his tough gangster roles but he has also done his fair share of musical roles throughout his career . It was also how he started out his career and the theater was perhaps also were truly his heart really was . This was also the movie which earned Cagney his only Oscar win and he really deserved it . It's a kind of role I have never seen him playing before and it's perhaps not only the best role out of his career , it's also one of the best movie performances I have ever seen . Cagney is especially great as the older George M . Cohan . The movie is based on the real life of musical composer , playwright , actor , dancer and singer George Micheal Cohan , who made many famous musical shows and songs throughout his career . Cagney plays him with a lot of heart and really becomes the character , from a young man till the old aging , gray Cohan . It's a quite patriotic movie , after all Cohan's plays featured a lot of flag waving and stuff like that but in this case it doesn't work out distracting or annoying since the movie doesn't lay its emphasis on it . It's a movie that tells the story of a man and it concentrates on that , rather than focusing on the things and life surrounding him , at least not until the end , when WW I kicks in and George's parents start to age . A true biography , that just gets better by the minute . It's also not a movie you would expect from director Michael Curtiz , who mostly made swashbucklers and early thrillers and action flicks throughout his career . But just like James Cagney he has done his fair share of musicals . Just like Cagney as well , he just isn't best known for that type work . The musical moments are all grand looking and besides feature some good songs . And I'm normally speaking not even a fan of the musical genre in general . Watching this is however a real treat . You can also tell Cagney is really in his element during those musical moments . A real triumph and a pinnacle within its genre , not in the least thanks to a magnificent acting , singing and dancing James Cagney .
They never get too old for this !	This is about as entertaining as a movie can get ! You can tell by watching this movie that cast and crew worked together as one big family . A lot of cast and crew members of the first three Lethal Weapon movies returned in this movie . That is the biggest power of the movie . The story itself actually is quite weak , messy and not always easy to follow . This is due that the story was still being written during production and all the scene's had to be shot in chronically order in order to finish the movie in time . But this seriously is one of those movies were the story is of no importance at all . The true power of the movie is in the characters and their relations . There are some incredible fun sidetracks in the story and some amusing dialog . Additions to the cast for this movie are Chris Rock as an highly enjoyable police officer and new partner for future Lethal Weapon movies ( ? ) and Jet Li in his first American movie , as the new main villain . Both were really good and enjoyable in their role . I dislike both actors right now actually but at the time of " Lethal Weapon 4 " they were still two unknown actors therefor there is no reason to dislike them in this movie for me . Another fun role is played by Kim Chan , who's character involves at least one hilarious scene . Mel Gibson and Danny Glover are still amazingly good and fun together , after already three Lethal Weapon movies and are truly a golden screen duo . Other welcome returning actors are Rene Russo and Joe Pesci . It's funny , I normally don't like Rene Russo in movies but this is one of the few I can stand her in . Joe Pesci is fun as ever as hyperactive Leo Getz . The movie also features some top-class action sequences and fights , making this movie not just one of the most entertaining but also best action movie's of the last couple of years . The movie's opening is just great ! Maybe even better than the well known opening for " Lethal Weapon 3 " . Seriously one of the most entertaining movies of the last couple of years .
Brings warmth and joy to the heart !	This Muppet version is a wonderful version of the famous Dickens novel . It is really heartwarming and delivers the story and its moral well and it's filled with great songs and fun characters . Michael Caine is a great perfect Scrooge , he plays the classic character wonderfully without overacting , something that other famous or non-famous actors in Muppet movies always tend to do . Also the Muppet's themselves deserve credit , they yet again show their great acting skills . Robin the Frog might very well be the best and most heartwarming Tiny Tim of movie history . The music by Miles Goodman and the songs by Paul Williams are surprising good . The movie is filled with great sing-a-long songs like a good Disney movie from the 90's also had . The movie is an enjoyment to watch for both children and adults . It's a wonderful way for children to get familiar with the classic Dickens story . It's fun but heartwarming and effective as well without forcing it .
Deserves the classic status .	" Superman " already is a classic superhero movie that was ahead of its time and set the standards for many more other superhero movies later to come . From the very first minute you know this movie will be spectacular . The fantastic opening titles ( also mainly thanks to John Williams music ) really wakes you up and gets to you every time , in a way it already lets you know that this movie is going to be special and spectacular . The movie has a high pace even though it has a lot of story telling for a superhero movie . It takes its time to tell the main characters background and how he grew up , only later it starts to focus on the superhero element of the movie . But due to its good pace you wont start to lose interested for a moment . The movie has lots of different elements . The first part of the movie is drama , the second comedy , almost slapstick like and the third action . All this elements flow really well in to each other thanks to the good directing and story telling but also to the cinematography , editing and music . Everything works perfect in the movie especially the comical elements . It give the movie an high fun level and makes it easy to watch . The cast is very good . Everyone is casted very well , especially Christopher Reeve is believable as Clark Kent as well as Superman and Gene Hackman plays an highly enjoyable and fun villain . The special effects are good and even now days in the time of computer effects they look acceptable . " Superman " really was a movie that made the world believe a man could fly . It's too bad that the second halve of the movie is not as good as the first with a lacking final but it doesn't really ruin the movie in any way . The movie stays fun and enjoyable to watch right till the end . A fun and spectacular movie with great characters that shall entertain many people for years to come .
Great action movie driven by its story and characters .	This is the movie that set the standards for future action movies . It perfectly mixes all the action movie elements we are familiar with these this days in movies . But still its not the action I'll remember this movie by . I'll remember the movie for its wonderful and heroic story and top-notch characters . For me it truly were the characters that made the movie . Every characters has its own fun strong personality . My personal favorite character was Kyuzo played by Seiji Miyaguchi , he simply is one of those characters I always love in movies . Heroic , extremely specialized , without fear and many emotions but he doesn't have a prominent role or many lines . For some odd reason he really reminded me of Capt . Speirs from " Band of Brothters " . The cinematography and editing are good . Even though the movie is almost three and a halve hour long , it doesn't feel like it , due to a pleasant pace and story that never gets dull even though there are some slow moments in the movie , I mean basically it isn't until the ending till the first real action starts . Also impressive are the costumes and the set decoration . The nice little musical score suits the movie well and is only used in the right places . The final showdown also ain't a disappointment although the sword fights and all are pretty lame , especially compared to movies made present day of course . A highly enjoyable action movie with heroic characters and a wonderful story , with multiple layers in it .
" Saving Private Ryan " in Somalia .	This movie uses the exact same gritty style as used in " Saving Private Ryan " . I don't mind it , I welcome it ! For me it's wonderful to see that " Saving Private Ryan " set a whole new trend for war movies . Just like in " Saving Private Ryan " this movie tries to shock the audience , sometimes it succeeds but sometimes it also simply fails because the movie tries to hard to shock with as a result that some scene's feel forced . The characters and the event fail to get me emotionally involved , so for me this movie is more successful as an action than it is as a war movie . Like many more people my major complaint is the use of characters . They really stay just uniforms with persons in it for me . I have a hard time to remember all of the names mainly because of that they all look the same to me . The only one's I can tell apart are the one's that are played by famous actors ( Josh Hartnett , Tom Sizemore , Eric Bana , Orlando Bloom , Jason Isaacs , Ewan McGregor etc . ) I really couldn't feel for any of the characters , also thanks to it that there are some over-dramatized scene's involving some of them that just don't work for me . I was also told by a Somalian friend of mine that the presentation of Mogadishu is not completely fair . The real Mogadishu is much more modern . He also of course complaint that none of the Somali's in the movie spoke actual Somalian . But this are of course simply things that wouldn't bother any of the " normal " viewers . I admit that I expected very little from Josh Hartnett after seeing " Pearl Harbor " but I was wrong to do so , he actually can act ! It's too bad that some of the other actors are miscast such as Jason Isaacs and Orlando Bloom but biggest miscast was Ewan McGregor . He and his character really felt out of place . I'm beginning to sound extremely negative about this movie , while in fact it is far from bad ! The action really is top class ! Also thanks to the cinematography and the unusual but very effective musical score from Hans Zimmer and friends . Far from flawless war movie but a very good action movie !
Something beautiful for something horrible .	No matter what Leni Riefenstahl claims , this movie is just pure propaganda for the NSDAP . Seriously , if it wasn't supposed to be propaganda , the movie would had been edited in a totally different way . Everyone with common sense sees this is pure propaganda . Horrible yet beautiful propaganda . The movie is historically important and for the WW II buffs among us because of that simply a must see . It's about the Sixth Nuremburg Party Congress , 4 years before the real beginning of WW II . What we get to see is a display of power and race supremacy . It's really impressive to see literally hundreds of thousands of different SS and SA soldiers all marching perfectly in columns while holding flags and a military march is playing . The precision and perfection is scary to see , just as it is scary to see how thousands of civilians young and old all hail Hitler . Most young girls even scream like it were actually The Beatles that were visiting . Seeing and hearing all those ' normal ' hundreds of people raising their right hands greeting Hitler and his officers and soldiers was chilling to see and sends shivers down my spine . It was horrible to watch . . . Yet the movie is also in a way ' beautiful ' to watch . In an artistic way the movie is just simply wonderful . The camera-work but especially the editing was impressive . Only thing is that some moments drag on for too long . For instance the marches just seem to go on forever ( Also proof for that this movie is purely propaganda . ) . Also it was nice to see some of the ' old ' Germany . Of course most of it got bombed down later during WW II . I'm sure and hope that most people these days don't agree with him but you have to admit that Hitler was one powerful political public speaker . His speeches in this movie are both impressive as terrifying to look at and listen to . He seriously puts all the other speakers to shame like Hess , Darré , Todt and Dietrich . And although he doesn't smile or show any other emotion you can tell that Hitler was enjoying every minute of it , you can tell it by his eyes . Horrible propaganda , yet beautiful and historical important as a movie . And lets hope none of this will ever happen again .
An original movie that works on many dimensions .	This movie is being praised basically everywhere , which made me all the more skeptic about watching it of course . I mean , how could a movie set in a supermarket , surrounded by fog , could ever be an exciting or tense horror flick ? Well , you better believe it that this movie is a exciting and tense one to watch and it's all being presented in a very original way as well . The fact that the movie is directed by Frank Darabont should had already given away that this is a great movie . Darabont made the 2 successful Stephen King adaptations " The Shawshank Redemption " and " The Green Mile " prior to this movie . Suddenly I am also less worried about Darabont making a " Fahrenheit 451 " remake , which is in the works . " The Mist " is his third movie based on a Stephen King story and it's the first horror based one . Now , I never have been a too big King for but his story for " The Mist " seems like a genuine well written one because it's an horror movie in an unexpected way . What makes " The Mist " such a great and already almost classic movie is because of its approach . What " The Mist " does very well is that perhaps the biggest danger and horror doesn't come from outside , in the mist but from inside the people in the supermarket . This movie is a perfect study of human nature and it's not afraid to show the dark side of mankind . It's an highly original and approach of an horror story . Finally a real clever made horror movie , that also makes you think . This however all doesn't mean that the movie also isn't effective on its more generic horror elements , such as scare moments and ' monsters ' . Also on that level the movie knows to impress and is it just as effective . It chooses a realistic approach of things and therefore also picks a realistic visual approach , with sort of hand held looking quick shots and by showing things only from the perspective of the main characters . It throws you right in the middle of things , which of course also really adds to the overall effectiveness and power of the movie . In that regard the movie is also truly original . Because the movie tries to remain as realistic and ' small ' as possible , the movie also doesn't a cast with big selling names in it . Because of this , you also don't know who will survive in the end . Normally you know this already when a movie has some big famous names in it . It keeps the characters all more real . It makes the story totally not predictable and far from just another generic piece of horror . The movie also really doesn't end in a generic kind of way . The movie also features some good looking special effects . Normally special effects and horror are a bad combination but in this case the movie truly benefits from its special effects . There are all , again , featured in a realistic and they are obviously not put into the movie to impress its viewers but to help to tell the movie its story . Yes , the movie is really as good as everyone makes you believe it is !
Hamlet against Hitler .	This is one fine and also rather effective WW II comedy , that mocks the Nazi's and their direct leaders . The movie got actually made during WW II and therefore this movie , just like Chaplin's " The Great Dictator " can be seen as a relevant one for its time and propaganda for the good cause . Lots of the cast and crew involved with this movie ' fought ' for the good cause during WW II and supported the troops abroad and rallied for cash bonds . For instance also Carole Lombard , who got killed before this movie got released , when the plane with her aboard crashed , when she returned from a tour selling war bonds . It's a movie that hits the mark with its comedy and spoofing elements , without ever getting a tiresome or overdone movie with its comedy and anti-Nazi themes . It's a more subtle done movie , thanks to its very fine written script . To me it really was the movie its script that pushed to movie to great heights . It's a movie that is always going and never stops for anything . It constantly puts its characters in some odd and also often dangerous situations . Just when you think its over they are rolling right into another - even bigger problem , which of course also is all the more hilarious as well . Because of this the movie basically gets better by the minute . It already all begins really well but it ends even better . You'll laugh more and more as the movie heads toward its ending . It also has a real original concept of a group of Polish actors fighting the Nazi invaders with the help of their acting abilities . So its Hamlet against Hitler in this movie ! It makes this an original and really pleasant movie to watch . Even though it of course is about serious subjects , especially considering that the movie got made during WW II itself and has some deeper political meanings to it , it never becomes a heavy movie to watch . It's like laughing at WW II during WW II itself . It shows that the world was not entirely dark and sober during WW II . Somewhere people were still laughing and that's always a great remedy in dark , hard and uncertain times . Because the movie is so well written , also the movie its comedy mostly comes directly from its situations and dialog . One thing that often is great about ' 40's and also ' 30's comedies is its written dialog . It provides the movie with plenty of laughs and makes you wonder why writers like this are not involved with comedy-writing now days . Probably because the genre has got less prestige now days , when compared to the ' 40's especially , when basically each year a movie like this got nominated for plenty of Oscar's . Strangely enough this movie received only one nomination though , for its music . Perhaps this was due to the movie its bad release date , not too long after Pearl Harbor and of course also Carole Lombard's early death . The movie has a solid ' 40's cast with talented actors such as Carole Lombard , Jack Benny , Robert Stack and Lionel Atwill involved . Basically everyone got well cast and each and everyone of them portrays some great and likable simple comedy characters . Heil Hamlet !
Abel Gance's masterpiece is still the best and most impressive Napoléon movie ever made .	Even though Abel Gance have made lots of innovating and masterful movies and I have the biggest respect for him and his movies , I'm not one of his biggest fans , mostly because his movies are extremely long but they are also really heavy to watch . " Napoléon " is however a great exception and is a very entertaining movie to watch , since there is always a lot happening and of course the actual story of Napoléon Bonaparte is an absolutely compelling and historically interesting one . The Napoléon Bonaparte has always captured the imagination of lots of people over the world , also that of film makers . Throughout the movie making history lots of version of the Napoléon story have been made , with also some well acclaimed actors in the lead roles . Still non of them really matches up to this extremely well constructed and shot movie . The movie begins at Napoléon's youth and end with his Italian Campaign . It showed how he gained all of its power , his most famous battles and actions till that point . But it most importantly shows Napoléon as a human , rather than a historical character , with family , friends . love and emotions . It therefor works also effective as a good biopic . The movie is filled with some early and multiple split-screen effects and other interesting and unusual movie making effects . Abel Gance much have really had fun experimenting with all those movie technique present in this movie . Of course the movie also features all of the usual ingredients such as the typical fast paced and cut together Gance style of editing . Further more the movie also features lost of moving camera-shots to enhance some of the sequences and its effect and to put us right into the action during some of the sequences . Even the snowball fight in the beginning of the movie with all the kids is spectacular to watch because of these movie-making techniques and approach . Visaully the movie is also great . They picked some nice scenery for the backdrops of this movie . And of course also all of the grand looking sets and consumes are fine looking and seem to be true to the era . If you can blame the movie for one thing is that it perhaps too much romanticizes elements and events and the actual character of Napoléon . They portray the character as a great national hero . But this is just the sort of stuff people wanted to see in movies . It would take lots of decades before actual ' true ' and also criticizing biographic movies would be made . Also of course the movie is French , so who can really blame them for romanticizing their most famous and important citizen . This is a pretty nationalistic movie but it's not really that bad all , although Napoléon sailing with a French flag as a sail is perhaps a bit too over-the-top , unless this really occurred , which I highly doubt . The movie also only concentrates on the glory days of Napoléon , so no failed invasion of Russia or Waterloo in this one . And no exile and death on Saint-Helena . But after watching already this film for 4 hours , you don't really want to see all of those things anymore . Gance originally intended this movie to be the first part of a total of six movies concentrating on the life of Napoléon Bonaparte . Unfortunately he never raised the money to make the other movies . It's the reason why this movie still leaves a sort of an incomplete feeling . Still no other Napoléon movies is a real match to this movie .
What an insane comedy !	This is one crazy hilarious comedy that also knows to be quite different and original from other genre comedies made in the same era . It's however a movie with a very simply story of course That's why I can't really understand how one could rate this a perfect . Basically the only purpose for the movie its story is to provide the movie with as many comical moments as possible , often without making much sense or making an obvious connection with other moments within the movie . It of course doesn't make the movie any less hilarious , on the contrary but it just is a reason why I simply can not rate this movie a perfect , no matter how funny the movie is . The movie is like a non-stop fast going comical movie with some crazy and well thought out moments . What makes this movie mostly different from other comedies made during the same time period is that the movie doesn't restrain itself to one location with only a few characters . New hilarious characters constantly pop up and it constant change of locations provides the movie with many different comical moments , of which some are simply pure classics . No wonder that the movie has so many and so many different comical moments in it , when you look at how many ( uncredited ) writers the movie had . The main story itself was based on a play , written by W . C . Fields himself . He also made the movie " It's the Old Army Game " prior to this , which features some of the same story elements as this movie but is still very different enough to not call this movie an actual remake of " It's the Old Army Game " . The acting is also absolutely top class , with comedy actors W . C . Fields and Kathleen Howard in the movie its main leads , who also have some great interactions together as husband and wife . The movie doesn't take any sideways , which it easily could had done with for instance the plot line between Jean Rouverol and Julian Madison . I think it's a positive thing that it didn't , since it keeps the movie simple and pleasant without having to be bothered by needless plot lines and distracting romantic elements . The humor often seems to come very random into the movie and seem to have very little to do with the actual movie itself . Yet the movie picks a more realistic and humane approach with its characters , so an approach that doesn't try to be funny with its characters , which only strengthens even more the silly random comedy within this movie . It's not only a physical funny comedy , it's also a movie with some great fun written dialog . A great and refreshing ' 30's comedy !
Excellent subtle ' 30's John Ford comedy .	' 30's comedies aren't exactly known for their subtlety and they mostly consist out of physical humor . This movie forms a great and wonderful exception to this . This is one great subtle comedy that is mostly funny thanks to its very amusing and extreme stereotyped characters . It of course also really helps that they are being portrayed by some really great actors and are being directed by one great director ; John Ford . Will Rogers was totally great in his role . He seemed very natural with his acting but at the same time managed to play his character in a comical way . He was a greatly talented comedy actor , who was already a popular one during the silent era . He would had continued to play many more comical roles I'm sure , had he not died one year after this movie , in a plane crash piloted by the one-eyed pioneer aviator Wiley Post . Hattie McDaniel also does in this movie what she is best known for , playing a likable maid role . She is best known for her Acedemy Award winning role in " Gone with the Wind " , which also made her the first black actor winning the great award . Even though John Ford began directing movies as early as 1917 , it wasn't until the ' 30's that his career really took off and he gained a real big celebrity status . He also isn't best known for comedies but mostly for his western's , often starring John Wayne . Till this date he is still the director with the most Academy Awards for best directing ( 4 of them ) . I think that says already enough about the qualities of this man . With this movie he also really seemed ahead of its time , by picking an all different and very humble approach of the story and comedy . The story is actually quite simple but oh so great . It actually is quite well layered , even though the movie its simplicity might make you overlook this . It features lots of different element involving the characters in this movie , on both the comical as well as the more dramatic level . I also especially really like how the judge tries to hook up his cousin with his neighbor girl . The movie also truly benefits from its typical southern atmosphere . The movie is set in a southern town , which shows in the movie its characters , their accents and just overall atmosphere of the entire movie . This movie was a great pleasant surprise !
De Palma's homage to Hitchcock .	This movie is often misunderstood as an Hitckcock rip-off , I see it merely as an homage . It is a well known fact that De Palma admires Hitchcock . In this movie De Palma mixes several elements from various Hitchcock movies with as a result his homage to the master of suspense ; " Body Double " . Like I said before , the movie has several story elements from Hitchcock movies in it , mostly from " Vertigo " and " Rear Window " . The movie doesn't create a Hitchcock like feeling but it does know to create some Hitchcock tension . There are some really nerve wrecking scene's . The main reason that this movie doesn't have an Hitchcock like feeling is because of the fact that De Palma's style is too notably present for that . As a De Palma fan I don't mind this at all . There are some purely genius scene's that are typically De Palma like , such as the warehouse sequence . But the movie is not perfect . Even though I'm a fan of De Palma and his style , the movie still has some odd moments and scene's and the ending doesn't quite pay off . Still the tense moments make up a lot for this . I even think I can say that I found this one of the most tense movies I have seen . Suspenseful thriller , best to watch if you like De Palma and / or Hitchcock .
One of the most typical Laurel & Hardy shorts .	This movie shows what Laurel & Hardy shorts are all about . Crazy situations , silly antics and some crazy stunts . This short is truly one of the best from Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy . The story is very simple and basically only serves as a lame excuse to make the boys do some crazy things and to get them into some ( unlikely ) silly situations . The movie becomes absolutely hilarious due to its simpleness . The comical slapstick situations are top-class and absolutely hilarious to watch . The movie is fast paced which makes this movie an almost non-stop constantly laugh filled one . The situations and troubles the two boys get into this time are highly original . The movie and its story might be simple but its comical situations are not . They are well build up , executed and timed . This is what Laurel & Hardy is all about ! One of their best and most typical shorts . An absolute must-see !
Set the standards for all future animated movies .	Of course one of the things about animated movies is that no matter when they got made they never look old . " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " got made in 1937 but it looks just as good and the same as Disney movies - and other full length animated movies that got made in much later decades . You can say that " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " was the movie that set the standards for animated movies and was a sign of things to come . It's also the reason why the movie won a special Academy Award for ' pioneering a great new entertainment field ' . It was not awarded on simple Academy Award but also 7 smaller ones along with it . A nice and fitting tribute . Even though it's the very first full length animated Disney feature it's also actually one of the most daring ones . Some moments are truly scary done and the movie features some real horror like moments and even a skeleton in a shocking scene . No way Disney movies would allow these sort of imagery these days . It shows they were still looking for the right style and approach for their movies at the Disney studios . But it's funny to note how little the animation style had actually changed for the Disney movies over the years . Right till the ' 90's Disney movies used the same animation style and were just as good and smooth looking as this movie . It makes it all the movie obvious what a great accomplishment for 1937 this movie was . Not only the characters and their movies are looking fine but also the backgrounds and all of the other little details in it . So it's not a movie that is outdated with its style but it of course is with its story . As a matter of fact " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " story is shockingly simply and there hardly is any story development . It also is disgustingly happy and friendly with all of the cuddly animals in it and the sweet character of Snow White herself . But yet this at the same time is definitely part of the charm of " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " . While the comedy is not as good or much present as would be the case in a Disney short , featuring Donald Duck or Mickey Mouse for example , it still is a very fun movie to watch , which is due to the overall atmosphere of the movie and the likability of the characters . The characters from this movie are still among the best and most memorable ones out of all Disney movies . Not just Snow White herself but also obviously the seven dwarfs , who also make the movie mostly entertaining to watch . The Queen / Witch is also a good memorable Disney villain , even though her role is actually quite small in the movie . Also this earliest Disney movie already featured songs in it . Some of them are still classics and it's must better stuff when compared to some Disney movies which got made in the first years after " Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs " , with the exception of " Pinocchio " , which was the first next big Disney project after this one . Still just as good and watchable as it was at the time of its release .
Making sacrifices .	Even though drama is not my favorite movie genre I'm still a big fan of King Vidor drama's . He directed classics in the ' 20's , ' 30's , ' 40's and even still in the ' 50's . Seriously , what other director can say that ? He seems to have the ability to provide movies with some human and realistic feeling drama . It concentrates on the little things rather than purely on the big picture . It makes the emotions always humble but realistic and therefor effective as well . Of course it all feels terribly outdated now days but if you're into old movies you really should be able to appreciate it . The movie is really written with its drama and despite being not that long , it still is a movie that features a long time-line , with many different story elements and characters . It makes the movie as well as the drama diverse . It's a movie about ordinary people , with ordinary common every day problems . It's not a movie that tries to make the world look like a perfect place and shows just life how it is and nothing is everlasting . Everybody must make some sacrifices in life . Funny thing is that the movie itself is based on a novel , on which the screenplay got based , with 2 writers working on that and then again 2 writers were called in to write a dramatization of it all . On top of that also a writer called in for the movie its extra dialog . That's the way drama's got done in the ' 30's . It's a movie that is also being carried by its characters and actors who are portraying them . Barbara Stanwyck is a wonderful lead for this movie . She also received her first ever Oscar nomination for this movie . She would be nominated 3 more times in the future , before receiving an honorary award for her entire career in 1982 . All of the characters are well written and nicely developed . They are not just one dimensional , as often is the case with genre movie from the same period this movie got made in . Besides Barbara Stanwyck , also Anne Shirley got nominated for an Oscar , which was a bit too much credit though . It's a great typical ' 30's looking drama , with nice settings and costume design , though lots of it is obviously studio work . The musical score is from expert Alfred Newman , which sounds outdated and very clichéd by now however . You know , lots of loud strings during the dramatic moments and all of that . A great example of what made ' 30's drama movies so great and why King Vidor was such an expert within the genre .
Beautiful !	Visually this is a beautiful short . It has some amazing cinematography by Harris Savides who also made moody movies like " The Game " , " Finding Forrester " and " Birth " . The fine directing is from Kar Wai Wong , who makes this short a little piece of art . The story is also what helps to make this movie beautiful . Although its short it still manages to create depth and stir up the right emotions . This is the second and so far last " The Hire " short written by expert Andrew Kevin Walker . If you only like and expecting a cool car chase than you're better of watching another " The Hire " short and you can just better skip this one . The good mood music is from Joel Goodman and Jeff Rona . Famous stars in this are Mickey Rourke and Forest Whitaker in an uncredited but big role . The third " The Hire " movie is just simply beautiful !
So much fun !	I bought this DVD just for the show , because I had heard how much fun it was . You don't have to be an huge Phil Collins fan ( such as myself ) to like this DVD . It's simply great fun to watch for everybody ! Mainly because of the special round shape of the stage and the enthusiastic musical artist , the show is extremely fun to watch . On top of that are some wonderful songs sung by Phil Collins with his unique voice and by some impressive background singers . The songs are performed really well by the fairly large band that seemed to had some real fun on the stage , which also seemed to have affected the enthusiastic crowd that must have had a great time during the concert . Great show , even for the non-Phil Collins fan !
French film-noir before film-noir even existed .	The term film-noir didn't got handled until the ' 40's but this term would also really apply to this movie . It features all of the film-noir ingredients with its story as well as its atmosphere . The movie isn't as smooth or expensive and good looking as an American movie but otherwise there is not much wrong with it . It features a typical crime story in which a Parisian gangster hides in Algeria . Combined with this get the usual factors such as romance and a tough main character , who of course also shows his humane side . It has a solid story that is typical for the genre and therefore for the regular genre viewer won't feature many surprises in it but it's for them also nice and interesting to see how this typical film-noir ingredients all got handled in a ' 30's , before the film-noir got even really truly invented . But because the movie isn't American this of course also means that this movie is a ' different ' one to watch . It features often some more interesting camera-angles and style of editing . It makes some of the sequences really great to look at . It also has a good and pleasant pace and is skillfully being directed by Julien Duvivier . It's also a movie that got greatly carried by its principal actor Jean Gabin . He plays his character in the right way for the movie . He's a criminal but you still like him . It's a great character played by a great actor . Not all of the supporting actors are just as good however and act in a more typical kind of ' 30's over-the-top acting style , though the movie does feature some more great characters . The movie got for some part shot in Algeria itself but some sequence are also sometimes painfully obvious studio-work . It's the foremost reason why the movie at times has a sort of cheap and less smooth look over it . The movie did became a success though and even managed to get an American release . This success inspired Hollywood to make one year later an American remake of this movie , called " Algiers " , starring French born actor Charles Boyer and Hedy Lamarr . A real fine late ' 30's French crime drama , which really can be seen as an early film-noir .
Disturbingly realistic .	A BBC , made for TV movie , surely doesn't sound like the most spectacular or groundbreaking movie ever made . But " Threads " is simply a very effective movie , that surely surpassed my expectations . The movie surely portrays the most realistic and therefore also most disturbing nuclear holocaust I have ever seen , in any movie . Thing the movie does so well is that it keep things at all time real and close to the average persons . The story doesn't tell much about the things that are happening outside in the world and it doesn't show any battles being fought , missiles being launched , or anything of that sort . Instead it more shows the effects on average civilians , of what will happen if a nuclear war will start off . Because of this the movie has a sort of uneasy and unpleasant atmosphere and feeling , in a positively effective way . It shows the direct and indirect consequences and how people handle - and respond to a situation like this . It's a reason why " Threads " is often being credited as a documentary , while in fact it's still of course mostly a movie , with a story , characters and dialog . Of course it's a rather cheap movie but they used this to their own advantage . Because of the limited budget the movie remains small and therefor also more close to all of the characters , which overall helps to make this movie such a realistic one . But of course its budget also has its downsides . Not every aspect is as realistic , due to cheap look and the movie also doesn't really feature the best or most compelling actors . The movie of course also uses some archive footage from newsreels , just like they did in ' 50's sci-fi movies . Nevertheless its effectiveness of it all isn't any less powerful because all of this . It's what makes " Threads " a surprisingly great movie , that is very well put together , with limited resources . It's also sadly still a relevant movie . Just think about it , there is nothing in this movie that can't happen today or tomorrow . The crisis's and handling of them as portrayed in this movie surely also show some similarities to this present day . Really deserves to be seen !
Heartwarming and with a wonderful atmosphere .	" The Iron Giant " really is a wonderful movie . It's a different kind of animated movie and although it has some comical moments the main essence of the movie are on the emotions and atmosphere . It can be describes as " E . T . " with an Iron giant . The movie really perfectly captures the 50's atmosphere . The animations are not really among the best of the last couple of years but they look more than good enough . The story is heartwarming and the ending really is superb ! Jennifer Aniston is really good and very believable as a mother but Harry Connick Jr . really was the one who stole the show . His character really is my favorite of the movie and his sense of humor is spot on ! Wonderful animated movie and also one with a message . A treat for young and old .
Pretty good and just as appealing as for instance a Luis Buñuel movie .	I like watching an occasional experimental Luis Buñuel movie and I like them for what they are . I can also see the art of the it , just like this movie is definitely a piece of art . I could say that I liked this movie - and found it to be just as appealing as a Luis Buñuel movie though . But a thing is that Buñuel was already making these type of movies in the ' 20's , so calling this movie , which is from 1943 , ahead of its time is a pretty ridicules statement in my opinion . There always is boss above boss . The movie can be seen as being stuck in a nightmare . A Lot of images within the movie have a nightmarish looking over them , in which a woman sees her own death , only to wake up after it seeing the things she dreamed about really happening . This movie of course doesn't feature your average storytelling but nevertheless because of this the story perhaps even work out all the more effective . The movie doesn't feature any dialog in it and lets all of the images speak for them selves . Some moments within the movie can of course be interpreted in different ways by different people but that is part of the appeal of an experimental movie of this kind . A nice little surrealistic movie , from and with Maya Daren .
A feast to look at .	Faust is a famous German story from Johann Wolfgang Goethe but to be honest I wasn't familiar with it until I saw this movie . Perhaps that's also why I liked the story so much , the movie changes direction time after time and from the beginning on you don't know how it is going to end . A great story of good versus evil in which love conquers all . What makes the movie very memorable is the visual look of it . The movie is filled with some truly amazing early special effects . F . W . Murnau truly was a master in using convincing early special effects in his movies , some scene's are really impressive . Also the cinematography is spectacular and it has some brilliant lighting . In many ways the movie was decades ahead of its time . The way the story is told in the movie is unique and spectacular for its period and so is the use of humor in it . All the scene's with Mephisto and Marthe Schwerdtlein were shear comedy brilliance , also mainly thanks to Emil Jannings his acting . Mephisto himself really was one scary great villain character , especially when the character is first introduced to Faust . Maybe not entirely a classic masterpiece , the middle and the drama is bit too much dragging and lacking for it but certainly a movie historical important and memorable movie . A F . W . Murnau movie that deserves to be seen by more .
Rare hilarious comedy .	" Blazing Saddles " is a classic comedy , though it is not Brooks his best . Like many other comedies , the movie has hits and misses . There are some incredible good and funny moments but also some very lame one's but all of that is just a matter of opinion . Most people will have more than a few laughs while watching this movie . There are some totally hilarious characters played by some good actors such as Gene Wilder , Madeline Kahn , Slim Pickens and Harvey Korman . The main part is played by an unknown but talented Cleavon Little who died in 1992 . The role in this movie was the only one he ever really received fame for . The story is totally crazy and hilarious and makes this movie better than most of the other comedies . The ending is one of the most hilarious things I have ever seen , it involves a couple of fighting cowboys , gay dancers and even Hitler , I say no more . . . Yes , the movie has at times some unusual humor but that's what makes the movie classic , special and not easy to forget . There isn't really much to complain about this movie . Only thing might be that Gene Wilder's character is introduced a bit too late in the movie for my taste and that I would have liked the movie to be longer but those aren't really complains , are they ? A truly classic comedy and still one of the best .
One of the unjustly overlooked movies of 2006 .	This is perhaps one of the most overlooked movies of 2006 . Sure , it got lots of good critical acclaim and it was even nominated for 4 Oscar's but not that many people actually went to see this movie in theaters . I'll admit that Judi Dench as an old lesbian doesn't sound like the most appealing movie but of course when you still give the movie a chance the movie and its story have much more to offer . It's not necessarily one of the best or most clever written movies of the past years but the execution of it all is just top-class . It's a quite unusual and also daring story , mainly because of its perspective and characters . It therefor at all times remain a good and interesting movie to keep your attention and interest throughout . But of course what really makes this movie is the Judi Dench character . She knows how to bend and manipulate the situation to her own advantage , only purely for her own personal gain and pleasure . It's a real disturbed character and definitely has some issues but in the movie she isn't portrayed as an insane psycho who would do anything to get what she wants , even though that still is what the story is all about . It's thanks to Judi Dench that the character still always keeps an humane side and a side that you could understand and perhaps even care for . It's a real great character for Dench to add to her impressive list of characters . This is perhaps her most villainous role out of her career . Her character begins as a quite normal one , that you even start to care for , but slowly and steadily it becomes obvious throughout the movie that this is one disturbed character . I also like how its only implied throughout the movie that the Judi Dench character is lesbian . The word is never said and nobody speaks of it . I don't know , just thought that this was a nice touch . Just let the viewers make all of the obvious assumptions without explaining everything formulaic and in simple movie telling form . Also of course the make-up helps a lot . Judi Dench really looks like an ugly old woman in the movie , though in real life she is still good looking for her age . Cate Blanchett also plays a good role . This must have been a tough role for her but she manages very well at keeping her character humane and more easy to identify with as well . Bill Nighy once more also plays a great and subtle role . His role was sort of restrained in the movie , which really was needed for the story and to not distract from the movie its main issues . I also liked how they used ' non-actor ' looking and acting persons for the teachers roles . I found the atmosphere among - and the looks of the teachers very convincing in the movie . I've actually spend lots of time in the teachers room , so I know what I'm talking about . No , I spend there not as a punishment but as work , not that there's much difference though . The movie does a very good job at creating a realistic and easy to identify with atmosphere and situations , even despite the tough and unusual subjects . It does this trough the dialog and acting but also with the help of the fine directing and story-telling , despite some flaws in it , that creates the atmosphere of the movie . It's the sort of movie that looks and feels like it all could really happen and why not to any of you ? The movie feels as if it's based on a true story , even though it's not . It's based on the novel " What Was She Thinking : Notes on a Scandal " by Zoe Heller . I also liked the Philip Glass musical score for the movie . I'm not really a Philip Glass fan in terms of that I ever sit down and listen to his scores but his scores always suit the movies and its atmosphere well . I think that's also the reason why he already has been nominated for 3 Oscar's , including for this movie . A great movie !
Imaging the videotape from " The Ring " , only set in the ' 20's and 15 minutes long .	This is a rather odd , surreal movie , that is told like a dream-like sequence . It's an amazingly imaginative movie . It's a very graphic movie that features bugs , carcasses , severed limbs , sexuality and whatever more . Some returning elements also in later Luis Buñuel movies . No , it of course doesn't always makes sense , but what dream has ever fully made sense to you ? Of course a lot of elements in the movie are supposed to be symbolic and have a deeper meaning . I guess the more you'll watch this movie , the more you'll understand its purpose and the thing the creators tried to tell with it . Because you're not always sure what you're watching the movie has an eerie and unpleasant atmosphere , which is the reason why it's really comparable , as is it's graphic style , to the dangerous videotape from " The Ring " and the original " Ringu " of course . I really liked the editing of the movie , that gave the movie lots of pace and helped to tell the story of the movie , with the help of some well placed and effective cuts . The camera-work is innovative and uses some great compositions , that were still quite unusual and new for its time . Seeing this movie is a weird and unusual experience , but it's really one worth undertaking . Even if you don't get the movie its meaning it's worth it , thanks to amazing creativity and its visual quality .
' The Duke's ' last movie is a fantastic and worthy one .	It was strange to watch this movie knowing that this was John Wayne's last . Even stranger was it because the character he plays is dying of cancer just like John Wayne himself was at the moment . It gave the movie a deeper meaning and made some of the scene's more emotional . The story is told in a absolutely fantastic way . The story is slow but the mixture of good old western style and drama makes the movie always interesting to watch . The movie had so many deeper meanings . The movie is set in 1901 , the time when the time of the good old west was almost at its end . Only thing that stands in between of the good old west and modern times are characters such as John Bernard Books ( John Wayne ) , an old gunslinger from the good old days . His character is coping with his inevitable coming death but also coping with the fact that the good old days of gunfights at the O . K . Corral and saloons are over for good . He basically is the only remaining person still alive from the good old days with a reputation , so when he dies the old west dies with him . In a way this also shows some parallels with Wayne's death , when he died a piece of the genre Western died with him as well . Beside ' The Duke ' the movie also has some fine other great actors such as : Lauren Bacall , James Stewart ( also his last Western as an actor , he however later still provided one of the voices for his final movie " An American Tail : Fievel Goes West " . ) , Scatman Crothers and John Carradine . Still it was kind of an odd sight to see John Wayne and Ron Howard acting in scene's together . I don't know for some reason it just felt unreal . The movie also has a fine and a bit of underrated musical score from composer Elmer Bernstein . The movie itself is also kind of underrated , not in terms of the rating it gets but in terms of how well known it is to the general public . This is really a movie that deserves to be seen by more , if only also because of the fact that its Wayne's last role before his death in 1979 . Don Siegel movie's are often underrated for some reason , he was a great director that made some real classics but yet he never won any big awards and he is probably only known to the general public for making " Dirty Harry " . Don't watch this movie expecting spectacular gunfight and other Western clichés . Yes there is some shooting in this movie but really , this movie is more of a drama than a Western . Still fans of the Western genre will also not be disappointed because of the atmosphere and also mainly just simply because of Wayne's character . An extremely worthy last movie for ' movie-legend ' John Wayne .
An original , realistic , depressing , modern love-story .	" Gegen die wand " is a daring and original modern romantic movie , with not a joyful feeling all over it like you would expect from a genre movie but instead an heavy but also realistic and serious feeling all over it . It's European movie-making at its very best . But " Gegen die wand " is so much more than just a ' love-story ' . It above all is a real character movie . The movie mainly focuses on the two main characters , who both basically hit the bottom of life . They meet and decide to get married , for different reasons than love . They are two completely different personalities , who bluntly drink , do drugs and have sex with basically everyone that wants to . The more time they spent together , the better they begin to know each other . They begin to see through the other person's eyes that their lives is not what it is supposed to be and they slowly begin to see their shortcomings , which they at first simply did not care about . They ultimately begin to feel more and more drawn toward each other which eventually leads to the two falling in love with each other . But of course things become more and more complex as they fall in love . The people in this movie are real people , which makes it easier to identify with them . It also helps to make the events in the movie feel believable and real . The story is told in a slow and realistic way . It takes its time to fully develop the characters , which helps of making them very realistic . Nothing in the movie feels really forced , which makes the drama feel real and powerful . The actors and dialog also help to make all of it work . The dialog is realistic and very straight-forward . All of the actors suit their roles very well . Especially Sibel Kekilli is a real young new discovery . The movie also shows some controversial and uneasy subjects , mainly regarding Turkish immigrants who are living in Europe . The portrayal of the conservative Turkish family is one of the many elements I'm talking about but also the whole Turkish customs and society in particular . The movie subtly shows some critique but without ever going too far of offending anyone . The movie is just mainly above all a very realistic one . It's not afraid to show the dark , depressing , imperfect side of men . It's unlike any other film you've seen before . The storytelling is wonderful and makes this movie so much more than just a romantic movie , which in the end it really is . The drama / romance is mixed in an heavy way and it makes " Gegen die wand " not always an easy one to watch but certainly an experience that you'll not easily forget .
Columbo : Diagnosis Murder .	This Columbo movie is easily among the very best . It has a nice story , even better story-telling and a Dick Van Dyke in top-form , opposite Peter Falk . Accoring to the rules of Columbo logics and standards , this shouldn't be a good Columbo movie at all . The movie , with its one and an half hour , is far longer than a regular Columbo movie and the character Columbo appears late into the story . The movie also features more humor than a regular Columbo movie and the character of Columbo himself is perhaps more looking like a bum than ever before . All things that make this movie differ from the usual Columbo movie series . Yet it is one of the Columbo movies that work out the best , due to its story , directing and Dick Van Dyke , who plays perhaps one of the best and most interesting Columbo movie ' villains ' . It's finally a Columbo movie again with a true ingenious thought out murdering plot , that of course however is not as perfect as it seems at first sight and there are still some clues left out for the good old Lieutenant . The story is being told in a good murder-mystery movie way and its hard to imaging that the same man who directed previously the Columbo movie " Columbo : Mind Over Mayhem " also directed this movie . They are two completely different movies in terms of its style and overall flow and way of storytelling . So perhaps its more thanks to the very fine script of this movie that makes this one work out so great and makes it one of the best Columbo movies to watch out there . It's not necessarily a movie that simply feels as a made for TV Columbo movie . It's also plain and simple really good as a murder-mystery / thriller movie . The movie is also more treated that way . We see Columbo sitting around at the police station and thinking and interacting with his colleagues . It just doesn't feel like a Columbo movie who feels forced and obligated to put in certain elements and story bits to make this movie a typical Columbo movie . It's more original in its approach , which also makes this one of the more refreshing Columbo movie to watch . What makes the movie also really work is Dick Van Dyke . Normally when I see this guy - and it doesn't ever matter what role he plays , I don't see a character , I simply see Dick Van Dyke . However not in this role and he really simply is Paul Galesko . Perhaps this also has to do with his beard or perhaps the fact that he plays a more ' villainous ' character , something we haven't often seen him in during his still going on career . An amazingly great Columbo movie .
A documentary made as a movie or a movie made as a documentary ?	Seems strange that this movie is being listed as a documentary , fore this movie is made as a real movie , with scripted dialog and situations . Nevertheless it still can be seen as a docudrama , which concentrates on the London civilian fire brigade during the bombings of WW II . The movie gives a real insightful look in this little unknown piece of history . It shows under what circumstances the men and women involved with the fire brigades had to work . It shows the whole organization behind it all and how things got communicated . It of course also shows how the actual fires were being fought by the brave men . Just like most British young men were fighting elsewhere in Europe , these men fought they own wars against the fires in the big cities . What surprised me was that this movie was not a typical British war time propaganda piece . This is a bit odd , since the production company Crown Film Unit , was a movie-making propaganda arm of the Ministry of Information at its time . It doesn't try to glorify anything and just show things as they are . The movie also doesn't have an annoying all knowing voice-over , who comments and the ' brave ' actions and all . The movie is actually pretty straightforward and raw shot . Although everything in this movie is being scripted it still feels all very real . It's a true engaging - and therefore also really powerful and effective movie . Yes , it's truly being shot as a movie . I was actually quite impressed by some of its camera-work and editing at times , which seemed to be decades ahead of its time in certain sequences ! Not that I have ever seen anything else by Humphrey Jennings but I'm definitely interested now to see more by him . Unfortunately he died very young in 1950 , when he fell of a cliff while he was scouting for locations in Greece for his new movie . Still a total of 33 directed movies are behind his name , so more than enough stuff to still check out ! A real unique classic within its genre !
The Dutch " Goodfellas " .	This movie surpassed all my expectations . Its very raw in its violence and story . The characters are well developed and the actors that portray them are most excellent . I couldn't help thinking about " Goodfellas " while watching this movie . Both movies have certain parallels . The main character doesn't begin his life as a criminal and murderer but slowly becomes so and transforms throughout the movie . Also the criminal activities in both movies are quite the same . Still this doesn't mean that " Van God Los " is a cheap Dutch rip-off of " Goodfellas " , no not at all ! " Van God Los " is a powerful movie on its own that is driven by its well developed characters . The movie has some pretty violent scene's , they were really not holding back here and I found it even quite shocking and disturbing at times but in a good way . The story is very solid and well written and it's loosely based on true events . Yes people , these events and gangs are so rare in The Netherlands that they make movies about them . All of the events in the movie feel all very realistic which is I think also thanks to the fine actors . But it's not all violence in this movie , the movie is driven by some powerful emotions and the movie has several layers . It's a both powerful emotional movie as well as a violent one . In a way the movie shows that everyone has it in him or her to become a criminal . Basically there is no reason why this couldn't happen to any of you out there . The movie is very well directed by Pieter Kuijpers , who is a great character director . The fine cinematography by Bert Pot impressed me and the music by ' Het Paleis van Boem ' set the mood for the movie perfectly . To be honest , I was kind of worried when the movie and its narration began . All of the main characters in the movie are speaking with a certain Dutch accent they speak in the southern province Limburg . I'm from the absolute most northern province of The Netherlands and Limburg is the most southern province of The Netherlands . Needless to say that the accents are completely different and in my ears even irritating , than I'm used to . But those worries were all for nothing , you get used to the accents very quick and after a while you don't even really notice them anymore . Of course for all the people outside The Netherlands who don't speak one word of Dutch , this isn't a complaint because they will simply of course not be bothered by it at all . This movie most certainly surprised me in a positive way and I think that this movie deserves an international audience .
One fine constructed movie .	This is a classic movie that is made by its story . It has a great deep murder-plot , with normal characters being put in not so normal circumstances . Within its genre this is simply one fine movie , that with all of its ingredients embodies the crime / film-noir genre of the ' 40's . Like all of these movies it begins all rather simple , with a good thought out murder-plot but of course soon things start to go from bad to worse . This is what I like mostly about this type of movies . Characterers change throughout the movie and the plot thickens fast . It's really a movie that gets better by the minute and besides also features plenty of nice twists and developments . A real fine constructed movie . It's of course also being made great by it's atmosphere , that I don't consider typically film-noir like , cinematography and directing by Billy Wilder , who handled a lot of different genres successfully throughout his career , film-noir being just one of them . He also helped to write the screenplay for this movie . His directing and writing both earned him an Oscar nomination for this movie . The movie got nominated for a total of 7 Oscar's , including best picture but it won none however . Nevertheless the movie has grown out to be more of a classic than the movies that did won an Oscar over " Double Indemnity " that year . Fred MacMurray isn't really the best known actor but he suits his role in this movie just fine . He really fits in well within the genre . I wasn't too happy about Barbara Stanwyck though , who has played far better roles throughout her career . She also looked quite ridicules with her blond wig . Ironically enough she still got nominated for an Oscar for her role in this movie . It was great to see Edward G . Robinson in this . It was the first time ever he appeared in a film-noir and prior to this he was mostly known for his tough roles in gangster-movies . A must-see for the fans of the genre .
What a directorial debut for Clooney !	Amazing that this movie was actual a debut for its director George Clooney . The movie is filmed with so much class and great storytelling that you would think that this movie was directed by a multiple Oscar nominee veteran director . I predict an Oscar win for best directing for Clooney within the next 10 years . He was already nominated last year for his second movie " Good Night , and Good Luck " but the subject of the movie was a bit too touchy for it to actually win . The movie is a typical Charlie Kaufman written movie , meaning that it explores the thin line between comedy and drama , without ever fully knowing what is actually truth and fiction in the story . The movie is not serious enough to be taken fully as a heavy biopic but it's also not humorous enough to take the movie as a full comedy . Let's keep it to it that this movie is entertaining to watch , from start till finish , due to the well written story , the fine skillful directing and storytelling and also definitely thanks to the cast . The movie is based on the life of game show impresario Chuck Barris , who also claimed that he was a CIA hit-man . It's hard to tell in the movie how much to actually take serious about the story but luckily the movie doesn't really focuses on this question . The movie its purpose is to tell an unusual but compelling story , with lots of flair and fun . The question whether it or didn't really occurred is irrelevant in this case . The movie also shows that fiction can be used in a way to spice up the truth , so I don't see how diverting from the truth can be a bad thing , as long as it's good for the entertainment and the story . The directing is perfect to create an atmosphere that fits the story that is somewhere between the truth and fiction . There are some great film tricks in the movie , which shows that Clooney has both the creativity and the skills to bring it to the screen . Also the Newton Thomas Sigel cinematography works fine for the movie its style and atmosphere . For this movie Clooney used a lot of big names for the cast , who mostly appear in nothing more than cameo roles , such as Brad Pitt and Matt Damon , who are basically in the movie for about 2 seconds . The many cameo's are also reason why you can't really ever take the movie really serious , since you recognize big stars in basically every sequence of the movie . This is not a bad thing , it suits the movie and its style really well . In the midst of all those big names , Clooney decided to give Sam Rockwell the main part , who I wasn't ever accustomed to of seeing in big movie parts . It was a great choice however . Sam Rockwell turned out to be the ideal choice to play this certainly unique character . Drew Barrymore was also given the opportunity to show her skills in a big movie and in a carrying role . The movie also lets Julia Roberts , Rutger Hauer and Maggie Gyllenhaal show up in good roles . George Clooney himself also plays a fine part in the movie . Every character in the movie is unique and also quite quirky but not in an extreme or over-the-top kind of way . I'm glad that Clooney decided to become a director as well !
Psychological horror can't get much better than this .	Even though no monsters or real scare moments are present , the atmosphere and the psychological elements of this movies still makes this a strong and original horror movie . Just like the 1973 movie " Don't Look Now " , the horror is hidden in the creepy story that keeps you guessing till the end what is truly going on and who you are to believe . The movie is told in a good slow pace which makes the movie and the characters more realistic . Also the atmosphere is another element that adds to the realistic feeling of the movie . Thing I wasn't really to happy about was the editing . At times the movie jumps just from one scene to another without any ' warning ' . For instance , the main characters are talking in the living room and boom , the next moment they are sitting at the dinner-table . I'm almost positive that this was done on purpose and that it was perhaps merely an experiment but it was not something I was happy about . So experiment failed in my opinion . Really my favorite moments were the dream sequences . There were just like real dreams are ; weird and not logical . Quite possible the most realistic dream sequences featured in a movie-history . Real kudos to Roman Polanski for the magnificent directing of this movie . The actors portray their characters very realistic and are helped by the solid script and dialog . I love how they made Rosemary the only real true main character of the movie . There are not a lot of movies that focus so much on mainly the female character as this movie . Yes , of course there are enough movies where a female is the main characters but most of those movies also feature a much present male character , or other characters . This movie focuses mainly on just Rosemary , especially towards the ending when her paranoia and fear grows and she begins to feel more and more alone and helpless . An highly original and unforgettable horror movie that is up there with the best movies of the ' 60's .
My idea of a fun great nonsense movie .	This short movie is my idea of a fun great nonsense movie . There is zero story , everything that happens doesn't really make much sense , the characters are simple and dumb in an hilarious way . In other words ; perfect to kill some time with and have a great time as well while doing so . This is a typical movie that is popular in certain circles among youngsters who surf the Internet . It's a movie that is well known , not through marketing but due to good old fashioned mouth to mouth spreading . The production company Baaaah Productions , or B-Pro for short , made a whole lot of more silly movies , takes mixes material arts elements and silly humor that spoofs some well known ( silly ) television-series . The company is founded by a couple of enthusiastic youngsters , who make the movies just for fun of it and also use it as an exhaust to show their material arts skills in a good looking and professional way . In this particular case the movie spoofs the well known and popular Dutch series of " Bassie & Adriaan " , that is made for children and is very popular and well known in the Netherlands and Belgium for over 30 years now . It's about the brothers Bassie and Adriaan , two brothers who work at the circus . One is an acrobat the other a clown . They live together in a caravan with a small robot named Robin . Together they always undertake some big adventure , all over the world , while they are often being chased by their nemesis the Baron and his henchmen , wannabe-spy B100 , bomb maker Handige Harry and Vlugge Japie . This movie only spoofs a small section of the Bassie & Adriaan franchise . It relies on the fact that everybody who watches this movie knows who all the characters are and what the significance of the sets , costumes and dialog are . So don't even think about watching this movie if you have never heard - or seen Bassie & Adriaan before . The movie won't be much fun , although you'll surely still enjoy and be entertained by it probably , due to it's material arts elements and silly comical situations . This movie definitely ain't no kids movie . It features lots of violence and Bassi & Driaan say some things you want be ever hearing the real Bassie & Adriaan say . The movie has Bassi & Driaan undertaking some serious fighting action , when they are being attacked by the Baron and his small army of ninja's . The fight sequences look good and are well choreographed . This ain't no beginners and all of the actors are well trained professionals . This definitely shows on the screen , with as a direct result some great and spectacular looking moves and action . The movie , as its story itself , is incredibly simple . It doesn't try to make sense and it offers some good straight-forward nonsense , that often gets extremely hilarious . The humor is incredibly simple but hilariously executed . Some of the sequences don't even feel connected . I mean , what is Robin from Batman doing in this ? Ha-ha ! But nevertheless the camera handling and editing is surprisingly good , which does make the story flow well , in a good quick pace . Sure , not everything works out as fun or effective as intended though unfortunately . But at least the guys did have fun making this movie and that really shows well in the movie its end eventual result . The movie is definitely less amateur like , also because of its ' styleless ' humor , than you at first sight would expect it to be . Besides material artist , the actors also are some good comical actors as well . They play their characters deliciously over-the-top . Raphael Klompers and Rudi van der Steen do a good job portraying the two main characters , although I have the feeling that if Johan Aders had played the role of Driaan , as intended to , the movie would had been even more fun to watch . Renko Koppe is also entertaining as the Baron , who's eye-patch ( unintentialy ) keeps falling of in basically every sequence he is in . The movie uses many fun comedy sound effects , some more subtle than others . For the voice of the Baron real archive material of the real Baron , played by Paul van Gorcum , from the Bassie & Adriaan series is used . This was a great move , since it worked out extremely hilarious in the movie . The movie also has a great and fun variation of the famous " Bassie & Adriaan " music-theme . A must-see , if you've grown up with watching the " Bassie & Adriaan " television-series .
Wonderful but not perfect beginning of the greatest movie saga of all time .	" Star Wars : Episode I - The Phantom Menace " was probably one of the most anticipated movie of the last couple of decades . Because of the whole hype around it , it could only disappoint and it was no surprise that lot's of people eventually were disappointed . I have to admit that even I was disappointed a bit . The first time I saw it in the cinema I would had probably rated it a but the second time I saw it in the cinema ( yes , a real Star Wars fan doesn't watch a Star Wars movie just once in cinema : P ) , I already began to appreciate it more . It really is a movie that grows onto you . I'm now at the point were I'm loving this movie and see it as a great addition to the Star Wars saga . Granted that it's not the perfect beginning of the series but it certainly is a entertaining and beautiful movie . If this would had been the first Star Wars movie that had been made , I'm sure it would had been received way better than it did now . There are two things in this movie that make me consider this a great movie ; The podrace and the duel of the fates . Those two parts in the movie make this is science-fiction classic . Yes , sure the podrace was totally inspired by the " Ben-Hur " chariot race scene and therefor it's not the most original sequence in movie history but it has been made with lot's of profession and excellent special effect supported by the John Williams soundtrack . It should get your adrenaline really flowing . And even the biggest Star Wars hater has to admit that the duel of the fates is spectacular . It simply is the best lightsaber fight of all the Star Wars movies so far ( Maybe the Obi-Wan / Anakin lightsaber fight is going to be even better ? ) . It mainly is spectacular thanks to Ray Park as Darth Maul . His moves are incredible and something totally different than we were used to from the the other three firstly made Star Wars movies . Then why is " Star Wars : Episode I - The Phantom Menace " not a perfect movie ? Well , there are several problems . One is the at times weak dialog . The other is of course the character Jar Jar Binks but maybe the biggest problem is Jake Lloyd as the young Anakin Skywalker . He plays very inconsistent . In the one scene he is perfect and in the other he is just simply awful . Some words of comfort for Jake ; he is not the worst actor in this movie . Ralph Brown is even more horrible as Ric Olié AKA Captain Obvious but also Pernilla August was pretty awful at times . Thankfully the rest of the cast is casted very well and there are some wonderful newly added characters . There have always been lot's of critic on the casting of the new Star Wars movies but I don't think that always has been completely fair . After all the movie has several Academy Award nominees ( Samuel L . Jackson , Natalie Portman , Liam Neeson , Terence Stamp ) and it should get credit for casting Keira Knightley who hardly had been in any movies before appearing in this movie , in a fairly large role . Keira Knightley now is one of the biggest and fastest rising Hollywood stars of this decade . It also is great to see that some of the actors from the first made Star Wars movies are back to star in this movie ( Frank Oz , Anthony Daniels , Kenny Baker , Ian McDiarmid ) . There also are some new great characters like Watto , Sebulba and the previously mentioned Darth Maul with his cool make-up and moves . The movie is very good non-stop entertainment in a good quick pace and come to think of it , it might very well the most entertaining Star Wars movie of them all . The special effects and make-up and costumes are top-class ( even though Yoda looks horrible ) and the icing on the cake is the musical score from John Williams . The movie is mainly fun and it has some spectacular moments . Also the lightsaber fight / droid battle / space fight ending will not disappoint you even though the space fight is the worst of all the Star Wars movies . But I think that says more about the other Star Wars movies than about this movie . Actually the fact that most people were disappointed with this movie says more about the other Star Wars movies than about this one , for this really is a great highly entertaining , nearly perfect movie for the entire family .
Boom , baby !	" The Emperor's New Groove " is a rare hilarious Disney movie . It's very different from any other Disney movie so this movie might also be very watchable to you Disney haters out there . The movie pace is incredibly high and the music by John Debney and Sting are a real surprise . The movie really is a non-stop hilarious comedy with some unique humor . Also the style , both visual and story-wise is different from any other previous Disney movie , which in this case is a positive thing . The characters are great . Kuzco and Pacha are a perfect team . Yzma is a remarkable villain and her sidekick Kronk is hilarious . Yep , Laughs are guaranteed in this very hip and hilarious movie ! The story really is of no importance and most of it never makes sense but that's also why this movie is both unique and hilarious to watch over and over again . Highly recommendable to everyone !
The perfect mix of British and American comedy .	This movie knows to find the perfect balance between British and American comedy . Both the British and American actors are working excellent together and are a great mix . Both act in their own styles with their own sense of humor . It makes the movie excellent to watch for both the fans of the British humor and the more ' forced ' American comedy . The story is really great , especially for a comedy which often just relies on its jokes and comical situations . Sure , " A Fish Called Wanda " also has got its weak moments , such as the whole side-plot with Ken Pile trying to kill the old lady . Yes , it's funny in a comical way but it doesn't really blend in with the rest of the movie . Another thing that distinct this movie from other comedies is the wonderful cast . All of us of course already know John Cleese's comical talent but it really is Kevin Kline that steals the show . The best acting performance I have ever seen in a comedy ! He really , really deserved his Oscar for this movie . Hilarious comedy , watchable and recommendable for both the fans of British and American comedies .
Great script and great actor make great movie .	When I first saw the trailer for this movie I just knew that I had to see it . It looked tense but above all , mysterious , original and also certainly unusual . Plus it had Christian Bale in it . I'm glad that I have finally watched this movie and it certainly lived up to my expectations . Although the story itself might not be that unique or original , for it certainly uses several elements from other movies , the story is still good and mysterious on its own . Most of the things in the movie happen as a surprise and the movie leaves you guessing till the end . Therefor the scripts still remains powerful and original on its own . It's the script that mostly is the reason why this movie is an unique viewing experience . It has more than enough surprises in it and you never fully understand what is happening to the main character . You know that it can't be some sort of large scale conspiracy plot against the main character , as the main character himself thinks . It's too complex and too many unusual things are going on for that . But what exactly is going on and why , remains largely a surprise till the end . The movie is beautifully crafted by director Brad Anderson , who also provides the movie with a nice visual style . The story is nicely told in a mysterious and mostly unusual way but never without getting too complex to follow . The movie has very few characters in it and it mostly only focuses on just the main character , so we never loose track and are fully captivated with the story and feel for the main character . The main character of the movie is being played by Christian Bale , who lost a shocking amount of weight for his role . If he was any thinner , he would seize to exist . It's a real achievement , especially considering he had to get in shape again fast after this movie , for his role in " Batman Begins " . But above all Christian Bale is just a wonderful actor . One of the discoveries of this decade and a name for the future . Of course he already received lots of fame after his role in the Spielberg movie " Empire of the Sun " from 1987 but it wasn't until the early ' 00's that he appeared in some good movies again and showed his remarkable talent and skill . He also certainly doesn't disappoint in this movie and he is good enough to basically carry the entire movie on its own . It also was great to see the actors Jennifer Jason Leigh and especially Michael Ironside in this movie . John Sharian also plays a magnificent and significant role in this movie . He's a really powerful actor with a great charismatic face . An highly recommendable movie that has plenty of surprises and will mostly leave you guessing till the end . Not the most original but certainly one of the most unique movies of this decade .
An impressive animated movie .	" The Lion King " is and will always will be regarded as one of the better Disney movies . And it deserves that ! First of all the movie looks visually splendid ! The African land scape's are beautiful and so are the animations of the animals itself . What makes " The Lion King " such a special movie is the emotional dept the story has . The story plays a significant role in the movie and it has some good adult moments . The entire movie has a more of an adult feeling , unlike earlier made Disney's that mainly focused on only young children . Still there also is plenty to enjoy for the young ones , especially the characters Timon and Pumbaa shall be loved by them . The story is filled with symbolism and reference to mainly the communist regime . The voice cast is good , mainly of course thanks to James Earl Jones who has an amazing good deep voice . Also the three hyenas are voiced perfectly by Whoopi Goldberg , Cheech Marin and Jim Cummings . Jeremy Irons who voices the main villain Scar really brings his character to live and makes the movie even more worth watching . There are some typical Disney songs that are good . Also surprising good is the musical score itself composed by Hans Zimmer who also received an Oscar for it . His first and only one but hopefully not his last . Also Tim Rice and Elton John received an Oscar for the song " Can You Feel the Love Tonight " and were nominated for two other songs from this movie . A must see animated movie with some scene's and songs that you'll not easily forget .
Excellent horror / thriller .	REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS Don't read unless you have already seen this movie . The movie is very original in many ways and not like other horror and thriller movies at all . The best thing about " What Lies Beneath " is that it keeps surprising with many plot twist and it knows how to combine the horror and the thriller elements in a most excellent way . The first 30 minutes are a stroke of genius . It starts of like an Hitchcock like thriller but after the fist 30 minutes your realize it was only a distraction and that the real story and plot is about something completely different . And yes , the movie is scary too . It has lot's of scary moments that will scare you time after time . Michelle Pfeiffer is simply brilliant and is a great leading lady . Harrison Ford also pulls of quite well , the first 1 and a half hours or so , as a good loving husband / father and the last 30 minutes as a really scary villain . It was amazing to see Harrison Ford in a villain role , it's too bad he never portrays villains because he really has a talent for it . The movie also features some great many long scene's with excellent camera work that really builds up the tension . It shows that Robert Zemeckis has a great talent for horror and timing . The best combination of thriller and horror I have ever seen with many surprising plot twist .
This is the Martin Scorsese I missed for such a long time .	Let's face it , Martin Scorsese has made some good movies the past few years but nothing too brilliant or remarkable , at least not compared to his more early work from the ' 70's , ' 80's and early ' 90's . The last real brilliant Scorsese was in my opinion the remake " Cape Fear " , which dates back from 1991 . But " The Departed " is really again a movie that deserves to be on the long list of brilliant Martin Scorsese movies . From the opening sequence on it's obvious ; this is a typical Scorsese movie . For this movie he went back to the genre were he already was successful with in the past ; the gangster-movies . It's a nice touch for a change that the movie is set in present time . After all , why should the best gangster-movies always take place in the past ? " The Departed " is a greatly told and constructed modern crime movie about an infiltrator in the state police and an infiltrator in a crime syndicate who have to hunt each other down . It's a movie that provides the movie with some thrills , unexpected twists ( especially toward the ending ) and some great confrontations between different characters . The story on its self is already quite good ( Just loose the love-story next times . It adds nothing to the characters or story . ) and interesting but it's made all the more great by the way it is told . Not only kudos to Scorsese's directing for that but also most definitely for the editing by Thelma Schoonmaker , with lots of good quick flash-forwards and other tricks . All I can say is that she really deserved her Oscar for this movie . It really helps to tell the story and give the movie a look and identity of its own . The movie its cast doesn't seem like the most likely won but it works out perfect in the movie . I think a lot of people were screaming for Robert De Niro but also Jack Nicholson is perfectly believable and just great as a gangster-boss . Mark Wahlberg was great as a bastard-cop and Alec Baldwin as a nice cop . The other way around would seem more logical but they work out surprisingly well in their roles . It was good to see Matt Damon in a more villainous and tougher role for a change , mostly because it shows how great as an actor he actually is . Leonardo DiCaprio also shows once more that he is more than just another pretty face . It's not a movie that relies on its action but more on its characters and story . The movie is exciting , tense and spectacular regardless of that it hasn't a lot of action in it . Of course this isn't Scorsese's best ( which really says something about the extremely high qualities of this man ) , so is it fair that he finally won his Oscar for this movie ? I mean after all , if this movie won , then should had movies such as " Heat " , " Training Day " and so on . As a matter of fact it is of course true that if this movie was completely the same but had another director's name attached to it this movie would probably not had been nominated at all . It's just not the Oscar-type of movie but alas , I'm glad that Scorsese finally has an Oscar now , only just 3 decades too late .
Takes the genre to a new modern era .	The moment this movie got released it already instant basically became a classic . It takes the horror and zombie movies to a new era and already film-makers are starting taking over the movie its style of film-making and approach with its story and concept . " 28 Days Later . . . " is very original , even though its not . I mean , basically very little original is in the story and the movie actually ' borrows ' a lot from much earlier genre movies . Yet " 28 Days Later . . . " could and should be regarded as a totally original genre , mostly due to its approach . Leave it up to director Danny Boyle to deliver a good movie with also lots of style and originality . This movie does not pick a classic horror approach in which our main heroes are running from the evil killer zombies , the story is much more layered than that and there are some deeper meanings to the story . For instance in the second halve it becomes apparent that perhaps not the infected are the worst and most dangerous villains around but mankind is actually much more vicious and evil some under circumstances . This is also why I really liked the second halve of the movie , even though it was quite different from the first halve of the movie . I always like movies that completely turn 180 degrees after they are halve way through , at least if its done in a good manner of course . The movie its approach is totally realistic , which also can be seen back in the movie its gritty and dynamic camera-work and the way the overall story progresses and the characters are being developed . I'm also pretty sure that this movie shows an accurate portrayal of the case when an actual epidemic such as this would break out on a large scale . Nothing in this movie ever makes you think ; oh that's really not possible or believable ! Even though the movie of course features brain dead murderous ' zombies ' . But hardened horror fans don't worry . The movie still features plenty of gore and graphic killings for you to enjoy . This movie welcomes a new group of people to the genre but at the same time knows to maintain and please the ' old fashioned ' horror-lovers . The movie is also good looking with its settings , which truly enhances the movie its atmosphere . There is nothing scarier than watching a completely deserted London . There are some fine actors in the movie that are all giving some fine and realistic performances . Cillian Murphy can basically play anything and it was this movie that marked his big breakthrough . I'm not a too big fan of Naomie Harris but she is simply good in this movie and plays her role very natural and therefor credible . Further more Brendan Gleeson also plays a fine smaller role . Megan Burns on the other hand is just downward horrible . Pure and simply , she just can't act . It seriously ruins some of the realism and tension of the movie at times . Thank goodness she also hasn't acted in anything every since . Casting her was basically the biggest mistake this movie made . It's already a classic within its genre .
Hoffman vs . Streep .	Over the years " Kramer vs . Kramer " has grown out to be one of the widely best known dramas . And yes this is for a good reason . Every textbook drama element is present in the movie and it's a great example of how to make a good and honest genre movie , without ever cheating the viewers . With that I mean , without ever getting overly sappy or melodramatic , although the movie its drama gets predictable in parts . But isn't that the case in basically every drama-movie ? " Kramer vs . Kramer " above all is a real character movie . I mean , it's not like the story is that much special , or something that hasn't been done before in any other form or shape . It are really the actors that make the characters and emotions come alive . Without its stars this movie wouldn't had risen above the level of an average made for TV movie , if I'm being completely fair . The concept of the movie also really doesn't sounds too much interesting . A movie about a divorce ? Come on ! How special can that be . Why should you even ever watch a movie on this subject ? Well , let me tell you that " Kramer vs . Kramer " is a very special movie that knows how to move you . I guess that the movie should be especially recognizable and all the more touching for people whose parents really went to a divorce and had a ' fight ' over custody . The biggest strength of the movie is that it all feels very real . Not just the events but especially and foremost the characters and how they act and respond to certain situations . The movie and its drama feels so real because the characters also feel so real . So kudos to Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep ( although her role is not as big as you would expect ) , who both won an Oscar for this movie but also to the young Justin Henry as the young son and Jane Alexander , who both received an Oscar nomination . So the movie was nominated in all acting categories , which should say enough about the acting power that's in this movie . Dustin Hoffman's character really transforms throughout the movie , when he tries to as good as a father as possible . It's really touching to see . The movie shows how hard parenthood is and foremost shows that there can't be such a thing as the ' perfect parent ' . It also helps to give this movie a very honest and straight-forward feeling , like with so many ' 70's movie also was the case . A movie that's unique in its sort and is above most other genre-movies .
Bill Murray is crazy !	This movie is one of my favorite comedies . There is a great cast , characters and story that are good for some serious laughs . The movie has a high pace and doesn't slow down for a moment which is in this case a positive thing . It also has as result that the jokes come very fast after each other , some are better than others of course but that's just a matter of taste and the good jokes make more than up for the bad ones . But strangely the strength of the movie is not in the jokes ; It's in the casting . Woody Harrelson gives a top performance and he and Randy Quaid form an odd and because of that wonderful comical duo . But the show stealer is once again Bill Murray . He is crazy ! Every scene with him in it is funny and he puts down yet another crazy character on the big screen . Further more , the story is filled with some crazy character that can only come out of the genius comical minds of the Farrelly brothers . An underrated comedy .
Cleverly funny and made with eye for detail . . . only complaint ; it's too short !	Lot's of cheese might be featured in this movie but the movie itself is far from cheesy . It's a cleverly made movie , of which its humor relies on its timing and characters , rather then the script . What a wonderful achievement this movie is . The claymation is even more detailed and better looking as in the previous Aardman / DreamWorks production " Chicken Run " was the case . The movie is made with eye for detail and features lots of complex , almost flawless sequence's , with lots of pace and detailed camera-work . But the thing that makes this movie so much fun to watch is its humor . It has some incredible good timing , even though I'm sure of it that it must be very hard to time correctly while working with claymation . It takes lots of talent and experience to make a movie like this . That's why Aardman will probably stay lonesome at top of claymation and stop-motion for the next 10 years . The movie is also filled with tons of visual gags . You'll discover some new things , every time you watch this movie . It shows how incredible detailed the movie is . The movie is fun to watch for the entire family . The children will find the almost slapstick / cartoon like humor with Wallace and Gromit amusing , while the more older viewer should be able to appreciate the visual and more adult orientated visual jokes , characters and dialog . There is something for everyone to enjoy here in this movie . The story is very simple and also quite ridiculous . It's so intendedly ridiculous that it's also at the very same time extremely hilarious . Of course you shouldn't take this movie serious . It's one of those movies which requires you to switch of your brain and just sit back , relax and just watch the movie and take it for what it is . Another element that makes " Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit " such a great movie is its action . Just like in " Chicken Run " the action in the movie is incredibly good paced , directed and executed and also highly original at the very same time . Truly better than the stuff in 80 % of the ' serious ' action-movies , made these days . However the pace is also a bit of a problem . Everything is paced so fast , that it's over before you know it . It was so much fun that I wanted to see more and didn't wanted it to end . Of course it's not a real serious complaint though , in terms of that it made the movie any worser or less enjoyable to watch . An entertaining Oscar winning movie that shouldn't be missed by you !
Highly amusing .	Although this movie is always everywhere credited as a drama / romance , I regarded this movie as an highly amusing ' dark ' comedy , with subtle humor and characters . It of course is not the sort of movie that makes you laugh out loud but it's the sort of movie that amuses you throughout its entire running time . I like to compare this movie and its style a bit to the Stanley Kubrick movie " Barry Lyndon " . The movie has a simple story , set in the late 18th century France , about two rich and above all bored aristocrats who take pleasure in hurting other persons , out of the high circles of society , feelings and setting persons up against each other . They do this mostly by seduction which provides this movie with a most of the time overly present atmosphere of sexual tension and eroticism . The story isn't that complicated but it is made out to look complicated by the unusual and unpredictable characters and the typical old fashioned dialog . It takes a good storyteller to still tell a story like this , amusing and likable enough but above all also understandable enough . Luckilly director Stephen Frears is a more than good storyteller . It makes " Dangerous Liaisons " an original and always amusing movie to watch over and over again . That's also why I think that this movie should have won an Oscar for best directing rather than for best adapted screenplay . Strangely enough the movie was nominated for best movie but not even for best director . Stephen Frears personally deserved some more credit for this movie . The movie is extremely well cast and all of the actors deliver a fine and effective performance . All of the actors deliver the difficult dialog in a fine - but above all , believable way . Actors that really stand out in this movie are Glenn Close , who also received an Oscar nomination and John Malkovich who plays his character exactly the right way ; Dry , convincing as a good kind-heated person who falls truly in love but above all also as a cold-hearted brute , who enjoys hurting other persons feelings but not cold-hearted enough to make us completely hate him , or not care about his character's faith . He plays his character exactly right but it of course is also thanks to Stephen Frears that his character works out the way he does . It's mainly thanks to Malkovich's character , since he is the character that mostly carries the movie , that the movie and its story work out so well . Also really great and impressive in her role was the then still teenager Uma Thurman , in one of her earliest and perhaps also heaviest roles . She also looks truly beautiful in her role and I'm not only saying this because of her ' nude ' scene in this movie . Other well known actors in this movie are Michelle Pfeiffer , who also got nominated for an Oscar and Keanu Reeves , from the period when he still mostly starred in comedies . He wasn't too impressive in this movie but it still was sort of fun to see him in a role and movie like this . Besides the acting the most powerful and effective element of the movie is its visual look . The movie is visually a delight , with some impressive looking costumes ( also an Oscar win for that . ) and some marvelous cinematography . This and also most of its other visual elements , certainly help to make the story and characters work out as good as they did . I don't really see this movie as a classic ( yet ) or an essential must-see . It's not quite impressive or provoking enough for that but it comes really close . Visually this movie is definitely perfect though . When you watch this movie you'll definitely won't regret it .
Not quite fully an horror movie and not quite fully a science-fiction movie . Instead its an unique movie experience in almost every way possible	" The Fly " is hard to classify . There never has been a movie like this before and there will never be one again , since the way of movie-making and story telling is so brilliantly unique of this movie . It's not really an horror movie , for it's not consistently scary and gory enough for that . The movie can be divided into several parts and to every part of the movie a different genre label can be put . Cronenberg simply chooses to ignore that there are different movie genres and he tries to create his very own movie with his very own unique view and take on the story . He ignores all of the ' Hollywood ' movie rules with as a result this brilliant and unique movie . The storytelling is for most part slow and mysterious . It helps to give the movie a certain atmosphere of fear and paranoia . The movie has very few settings and actors in it . It doesn't waste anytime on wide-shots , needless side-plots and characters . Instead it choices a straight forward approach . It works powerful and compelling . We as viewers get immediately drawn into the story and the ' action ' , so to speak , immediately starts of . It are all reasons why this movie is only 95 minutes short but its long enough to cover everything that has to be told . The unique way of storytelling is probably also the reason why this movie feels so realistic to watch . You just never know what is going to happen next and the characters are mostly unpredictable . The story and characters take several turns as the movie progresses . The wonderful dialog is another thing that adds to the realism of the movie . Of course the dialog is also perfectly delivered by the fine cast . Jeff Goldblum plays his character in a way only Goldblum can . With this movie he deliverers one of his most memorable performances . Geena Davis in this movie also shows that she is a very talented actress . It's too bad her career never really got of the ground , in terms of playing respectable and tough roles . She is a well known Hollywood-star but she never really appeared in any widely acclaimed and respected movie , with the exception of this movie , " Beetle Juice " and " Thelma & Louise " , for which she was nominated for an Oscar . Three years before that she even won an Oscar for her role in " The Accidental Tourist " . But having a successful 5 years just isn't enough for an actress of her caliber . A real shame because when you watch this movie it becomes obvious that the talent is definitely there . John Getz also plays a great role . He plays an unpredictable character that at moments you hate and at others you like him again . Just like in real life , none of the characters are fully bad or fully good . Everyone has a darker less pleasant side and director Cronenberg is not afraid to show this . The special effects are simple and quite poor but considering that this movie was released in 1986 , it's acceptable . The Oscar winning make-up effects on the other hand are fantastic . There are very gory . Even more gory than the most hardened horror movie . The make-up effects are one of the main reasons why the horror elements of the movie work out so very well , especially toward the ending . It's probably also the reason why this movie is regarded by many as an of the best horror movies of all time , even though the entire movie itself isn't really an horror movie at all in my opinion . It's a very well constructed movie that can't really be defined . A typical Cronebergian gem , with more layers , meanings and elements in it then you would see at first sight . Almost everything about it is unique . It makes " The Fly " a one of a kind movie that is an absolute must-see , at least if you have a strong enough stomach , for this movie definitely isn't for the faint of heart .
A rare case of the remaking being better then the original .	The 1962 movie version of " Cape Fear " was already a great and classic one . It was a movie that set the standards for most later thrillers and featured Gregory Peck and Robert Mitchum still in their prime . How was a remake ever going to surpass the original ? Martin Scorsese really pulled this off ! He makes " Cape Fear " an haunting atmospheric thriller that still is one of THE best in its genre . " Cape Fear " is a real psychological thriller . It doesn't rely on scares or anything like that but more on its atmosphere . It's a very insecure - and therefor also really an unpleasant atmosphere , since you just don't know what is going to happen next and what the Cady character actually tries to achieve . It's a real unpredictable character , that is capable of anything . You're just waiting for him to explode ! It also definitely helps the movie that evil Max Cady character is being played by Robert De Niro . He has played some tough gangsters in his career but none of them can match up to Max Cady . It's a real monster , who sends shivers down your spine . The way he makes the Bowden's life miserable is clever , totally evil and actually scary . On top of that it all also feels very realistic . Nothing feels overdone and it feels like this also really could happen in the real world . Too bad that in the end the movie turns into a sort of ' monster'-movie , with the villain reemerging time after time and when he can't seem to feel any pain . It's perhaps the only mistake the movie makes and the only lesser part of the movie , although the ending still remains an exciting and tense one . Something the 1962 version lacked . The movie is also very moody with a great visual style . Scorsese uses a lot of ( old ) classy tricks , that provide the movie with a great style and atmosphere . The atmospheric cinematography is from horror expert Freddie Francis , who knows how to create a chilling , haunted mood . It was a great movie that they decided to re-use the musical score from the original , by genre-expert Bernard Herrmann . But then again , why should you replace a perfect score ? It suits the movie perfectly and truly enhances the atmosphere . Not only De Niro is memorable in his role , basically every character in this movie gives a fantastic performances . The movie features some of the best ensemble acting you'll ever see in a movie . Every actor gives one of the best performances out of their careers . Nick Nolte , Jessica Lange , Juliette Lewis , Joe Don Baker , all are absolutely great and they're even better together . It shows what a great actor-director Scorsese also is . He brings out the best of every actor . I mean for instance , in which other movie did Juliette Lewis ever give an Oscar worthy performance ? Also a nice touch that a couple of actors from the original version make a cameo appearance in this movie and they are not the least ; Robert Mitchum , Gregory Peck and also Martin Balsam . Robert Mitchum's part was actually quite big and he shows that he still had it in him . Peck's cameo is mostly fun as Cady's lawyer . Obviously he got that particular role for playing in " To Kill a Mockingbird " . It was great to see him in a courtroom sequence again . Perhaps Scorsese's most commercial movies but also definitely one among his best . " Cape Fear " is an haunting and memorable movie and should should be a reminder movie-makers of this present day how to make a good genre movie . This movie is definitely still among the best in its genre and is filled with a couple of classic sequences and one classic performance of De Niro . An absolute must-see !
Another Kubrick must see .	This movie is typically Kubrick . It has an unusual atmosphere , subtle humor and is filled with some marvelous , unforgettable , artistic scene's , which all helps to make " Lolita " an unforgettable movie experience . The story is both original and daring even though the movie never really goes far or deep into things . But considering that it was 1962 when this movie was released still makes it fair to call this movie a daring one . It's a story that begins as perhaps innocent illegal love but later turns into an unhealthy obsession . The movie is about two and an halve hours long but the movie never feels dull or slow , which is probably mainly thanks to the masterful storytelling by Kubrick . The performances by the cast are really excellent . James Mason is great as the leading ( gentle ) man of the movie . Very good and certainly very enjoyable in his role is Peter Sellers who plays a character that can take many identities . A kind of character that Sellers always loved to play . Some other fine roles are portrayed by Shelley Winters and by Sue Lyon , in the title role . But most credit once more has to go to Stanley Kubrick who manages to create the perfect atmosphere for the movie and gives the scene's lots of style and artistic beauty . It may not be the best movie in the world , the movie has too many little flaws for that but the movie most certainly is a memorable one , which makes it also a must see for everyone .
One of the most nail-biting movies you'll ever see .	The movie is cursed with a horrible , B-movie sounding , title but other than that In film-noir style but also with lots of modern thriller style elements in it . It makes this one of the first full-blooded thriller movies , that set new standards and obviously also inspired many later genre movies . The movie has an absolutely brilliant written and told story . The movie constantly features flashbacks , due which the plot becomes more and more clear , until the unavoidable and brilliant suspenseful climax . The main character of the movie is bound to a bed , due to ' illness ' . It narrows down the environment , which allows the suspense to grow even bigger . She is restrained to only a small number of possibilities and objects , mostly her phone . She investigates ' the over-heard murder plan ' and the disappearance of her husband from her bed . She digs in past with the people she calls ( this is were the flashbacks come in ) and slowly things start to make sense and become clear to her and us . It's such a great concept and approach , I'm probably making it sound weaker and more ridicules than it in fact is . It's a movie that works because of its writing , not necessarily because of its directing or acting . The movie is so great with its thriller elements . It has many , really nail-biting moments , even though once you start thinking about it , not an awful lot is happening in the movie . Everything gets build up extremely well , with lots of implying things in it . The story allows you to make your own conclusions , only learning later that it was far from the truth . It are elements like this that make it obvious that this movie is based on a stage play by Lucille Fletcher , who also wrote the screenplay for this movie . It's not the only or earliest movie based on this stage-play but it's definitely the biggest and best . The movie has a great cast with Barbara Stanwyck ( Oscar nominated for this movie ) in the main lead , who perhaps isn't always likable enough though . Burt Lancaster also stars , in one of his early movies roles . Also the other actors are well cast and do a more than great job . Of course they are also being helped by the great written story and its dialogs . The movie also features some surprisingly brilliant and lively cinematography by Sol Polito , that definitely helps to build up the tension and to imply - or lay the emphasis on certain things and provide the movie with an uneasy atmosphere . The movie its ending is really the icing on the cake . It's so incredibly suspenseful , climatic and just overall brilliant . Truly on of the best movie endings I've seen in a long time . Definitely an underrated and often overlooked thriller-movie that deserves way more recognition .
Yes , it is as good and fun as you would expect .	It's really a movie that is made great by its writing and style . Edgar Wright has a very particular and stylish directing style . His movies bring comedies to another level . You'll be always able to recognize an Edgar Wright movie ( even when Simon Pegg isn't in it ) through its style . It's fast and enhances and makes truly the movie its comical moments . But also the writing is great . Despite the fact that it actually has a very simplistic concept and the movie is basically a one joke movie ( a big-town , successful police officer , who does things always by the book gets promoted away to the dull and slow countryside . ) . The story and its script are filled with some great and just plain silly ( in a good way ) moments and some unusual , funny characters . Of course things in the country side are not as calm and innocent as it seems at first sight . Soon he stumbles upon a series of sudden killings . So yes , there actually is still a main plot present in the movie as well , which is an enjoyable one that knows to keep you interested throughout as well , no matter how silly it gets at times . After this some crazy , absurd , over-the-top action kicks in , which really makes the movie all the more hilarious to watch . It's obviously deliberately done totally over-the-top , just as are the movie its characters all . The movie is needlessly violent and graphic , which actually works all the more hilarious for the movie its comedy because its all so extremely well and professionally done . It was the foremost reason why for instance " Shaun of the Dead " also worked out so well . Simon Pegg's and Edgar Wright's previously successes have as a result for this movie that some big well known actors show up in this movie in some small roles . Actors such as Stuart Wilson , Timothy Dalton , Bill Nighy , Jim Broadbent and Cate Blanchett all appear in this movie . It even has Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson in it , in a 3 seconds cameo . Of course Simon Pegg still is the central character of the movie but this time he and Nick Frost don't need to carry the movie as much alone as they for instance still had to do in " Shaun of the Dead " . They are both great comedian actors but it's a real good thing that the movie has also some great supporting actors . If you liked " Shaun of the Dead " , you will love " Hot Fuzz " .
What a delightful surprise !	Denzel Washington's Oscar winning performance made me want to see this movie , or otherwise I would have never ever watched this movie because normally I don't watch " ghetto , gangster , set in present day , with rappers in it , movies " like this . But the movie turned out to be way better than expected and it's arguably one of the best movie of 2001 . The movie has an amazing pace that covers one of the days in the life of rookie narcotic officer Hoyt ( Ethan Hawke ) and rouge LAPD veteran Harris ( Denzel Washington ) on their first ( and only ? ) day together on the job . The movie gets nowhere boring or slow and has tons of surprising plot twist that make the story very interesting and even tense multiple times throughout the movie . The power of the movie is in Denzel Washington's Oscar worthy performance and the chemistry between the two main characters . Denzel Washington is perfect as " bad guy " and delivers his lines in a most amazing way . His lines sometimes seem to come straight out of a Quentin Tarantino movie . Also notable is Scott Glenn in his role as a rotten old drugs lord . The atmosphere and style of the movie feels very realistic mainly thanks to the cinematography , nice fast editing , script and the performance's by the cast . Way better than you would expect it to be , give it a chance !
Brilliantly made and constructed movie .	This is really one of the better constructed movies I've seen in a while . Both the storytelling and style of the movie can be called unique . It starts mixing reality with fiction and its hard to tell what really happened and what didn't . It features lots of ' what-if ' themes and the story is being rewritten in the characters mind , also with lots of symbolism , mainly with the moon and the water . It doesn't make this the most accessible movie but then again , you don't ever have to watch an European movie for its accessibility . Things start off quite slow but as the story develops the story gets more and more complicated and non-linear , when the line between fiction and reality gets blurred more and more . It does make the movie hard to follow at times but it at the same time makes the movie more interesting to watch and enables everybody start to define things on their own . You of course have to be open to these sort of movies though . Also the very explicit nudity isn't just for everybody . Sex plays a key part in the movie . It helps to tell the story and plays a significant role in the story lines and help to indicate when things are truth or fiction . Never before has sex played such a key part in the storytelling of a movie . This movie is always presented as a Paz Vega but this movie it's main character is in my opinion played by Tristán Ulloa . He's the writer , were the entire movie involves around . The story is mostly set inside his head . The three main actors ( Paz Vega , Tristán Ulloa , Najwa Nimri ) of the movie are really good and carry the entire movie . Visually the movie is really great and impresses just as much as the storytelling of the movie . The camera-work and colors are really great and create a very unique atmosphere for the movie . It helps to make " Lucía y el sexo " an even bigger and more enjoyable movie to watch , visually . Those who are open for an unique , one of a kind , unusual movie experience , will surely be delighted with this magnificent beautiful looking and constructed movie .
A great adventurous story !	What really makes " The Sea Hawk " good is the great adventurous story . It's filled with action , romance and adventure . A true swashbuckler . Errol Flynn really is one superb hero . Not only has he got the right looks but he also was a very talented actor who unfortunately died far too early at the age of 50 . I also love how the rest of the characters are portrayed such as Elizabeth I and the ' gentleman ' villains . Also the love story is done good in a non-distractive way and Brenda Marshall really was one beautiful woman ! Still its funny to see how much more polite the English are portrayed than the Spanish . Not only do they politely capture all the Spanish soldiers but they also find time to free all the galley slaves and take them ALL on their ship back to England . It really is funny to see how black and white the story is at times . But this is really my only small point of critic about this movie . A very entertaining adventurous swashbuckling movie with some wonderful music by Erich Wolfgang Korngold . After more than 60 years it hasn't lost any of its power and therefor is recommendable to everyone , even those who aren't familiar with ' classics ' .
Who said fish are boring ?	" Finding Nemo " is a wonderful animated adventure movie that simply is irresistible for young as well as older persons . The most excellent thing about " Finding Nemo " is the perfect timing , just like in " Monsters , Inc " the jokes are extremely well placed in a quick pace and are good for more then just a few laughs . There are some very fun and great characters which brings me to the only problem I have with this movie . There are too many minor characters , I would have really loved to see some of the characters getting a bigger role with some more importance to the story instead of meeting character after character that are only on screen for no more than 5 minutes ( such as the sharks ) . Sure it's good for the sense of adventure but it leaves some missed opportunities to make the story even more fun . I think it's pretty obvious that the story is inspired on the " Lord of the Rings " trilogy since it uses lot's of elements from it and it has the some feeling of adventure and excitement so it's really not a big thing that the story isn't very original , the original and fun way the story is told in compensates for this . The voice cast as in many animated movies is impressive but the one that stood out was Ellen DeGeneres as Dory that you love to hate . Irresistible movie for the whole family with great jokes and lines and some memorable characters and situations . Mine , mine , mine !
Fun entertainment .	" Galaxy Quest " is an excellent feel good comedy that's enjoyable for the entire family . Even though the concept of the movie is not original anymore , the story is still enjoyable and fun enough , mainly thanks to the cast who seemed to be enjoying them selves during filming . Tim Allen is surprising good as " William Shatner " like captain and Alan Rickman is perfect in his role . Sigourney Weaver perfectly makes fun of her own " Ripley " character from the " Alien " movies and plays the complete opposite of this character . All the characters are fun and entertaining because they are humane instead of heroic . There also is a fine stereotype space villain . The movie perfectly makes fun of " Star Trek " , the fans and everything else around it . Well , I'm not sure if making fun of is the right way to say it , it's more like holding up a mirror , without making the Trekkies look like complete fools . But it's a comedy so how about some laughs ? Well , there are a few laughs but this movie is more of feel good , fun , entertaining comedy instead of an hilarious one . The movie also knows to be emotional at the right moments . Other thing that contribute to the greatness of this movie are the special effects and the musical score composed by David Newman . By Grabthar's hammer . . . what a movie .
Dangerous love .	This feels like a real modern movie even though it's a movie that got made in the old days and features a story that is set in a very specific time period , the story doesn't feel old because it isn't a formulaic movie that features the usual story . Just basically imaging a love-story version of " The Last Samurai " , in which an American woman falls into the hands of a ' villainoush ' Chinese general during the Chinese Cival War . They begin to grow more toward each other because they begin to understand each other and each others cultures and prejudices toward each other are being taken away . The movie also doesn't begin like a love-story but it just slowly turns into one . It also is a reason why the movie does not feel forced with its story or typical romantic movie elements , making this movie an original one to watch . It's perhaps even a movie that was ahead of its time , also with its theme of interracial relationships . Not sure if it completely was the movie its intentions to bring something totally new and shocking , since while watching this movie I simply more had the feeling that the movie just tried to bring a love-story to the screen that was just a bit more different and original than others . As a matter of fact its theme of interracial love already got handled in much older films so it's not like this movie is the first to handle it but nevertheless the movie feels like a breath of fresh air , when being compared to the usual love-story from the ' 30's . It seems like an odd thing that a Swedish , born in Denmark , actor portrays a Chinese actor but the make-up effects are convincing looking and the fact that Nils Asther is Swedish makes sure that the character has a typical distinctive accent that sounds also like a real Chinese person that is speaking in English . As a matter of fact it was his accent that later ruined Asther's career , who was a big star before during the silent-era . There of course weren't that many Asian actors around yet in Hollywood at the time and it wasn't really uncommon for movies to cast Caucasians in Asian or black roles . Or perhaps simply because they didn't wanted to work with a real Chinese person because they regarded him as a lesser and less capable person of getting the job done . you also have to remember that this movie got made in 1933 , when people's view of the world wasn't as broad . But no the movie is not totally perfect . The movie still suffers from the typical problems most ' 30's movies suffer from . The emotions just don't always feel right . For instance it never really becomes obvious in the movie how desperate Megan Davis is about getting home , back to her fiancée , simply because this emotion doesn't become sensible in the movie . Also the real reason for the two main characters to get drawn toward each other and feel in love doesn't really get explained in the movie . But well , love just can't always be explained , though it seemed to me at times that the love-story within this movie was more a case of ' the Stockholm syndrome ' , for which the hostage gets compassion for her abductor and even fall for him . But than at the other hand the the emotions and love in the movie feel real and also truly sensible . A movie that goes both ways with its emotions but it still deserves the benefit of the doubt simply because its such a well made and acted one with a great ' modern ' story . It's a Frank Capra movie from the earlier day of his careers but it's fair to say that this movie is also one of his very best and also one of his finest directed movies , with some great memorable and greatly done sequences . It's a well told movie that doesn't feel like a normal standard made romantic movie , despite its romantic overtone with its story . It's really a movie with more layers , about different cultures , respect , betrayal , honor , trust and what war can do to people , for " The Bitter Tea of General Yen " is also still a bit of a war movie . This movie has so many elements and themes in that all get handled really well and are balanced well throughout the entire movie . It's a movie that is set during the Chinese Civil war , that is a sort of forgotten time period already , or at least in the western world it is . The movie features a surprising amount of war sequences still and also some surprising action . Besides the surprisingly fine acting Nils Asther , the movie also features Barbara Stanwyck , who gives a real great and effective performance . The movie is mostly about the two of them , just like a romantic story should be of course . Nevertheless it also features some interesting different characters , also played by some fine actors , that give the movie and its story often some more spice and depth . A great ' modern ' old love story .
Awesome movie .	This is top-class entertainment . The movie is brilliantly constructed and has its own unique style . Both the story and characters are over-the-top and therefor also extremely fun . This is a movie were basically is very little wrong with . It's some perfect mindless entertainment but with a complicated storyline . So it's still a sort of movie with a story , which you have to pay a lot of attention to , while watching . The movie is made in the same style as the previous Guy Ritchie movie , " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " . There are lots of similarities between these two movies , so if you liked " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " you'll most likely also really like this movie as well . Main difference with " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " though , is that this movie has a ' bigger ' cast with some more well known names in it . Jason Statham who made his debut in " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " plays the main character in this movie . Brad Pitt plays a very fun role and fits surprisingly well into the typical British storyline and atmosphere of the movie . Also well known actors like Benicio Del Toro and Dennis Farina fit in very well into the story and the movie in general . But perhaps the biggest positive surprise of the movie was Vinnie Jones . He had been given quite some dialog in this movie and he shows that he really can act . Most movies he plays in , he is given very little dialog , a shame because judging by just this movie , he is a very talented actor . Maybe the movie becomes a bit too complex at times , which is mainly due to the very many characters that play a prominent role in the story . It perhaps gets a bit too much at times but overall it doesn't make the movie any less fun to watch , just more ( too much ) complicated . The movie has some very fun and original moments in the story , even though the movie is a bit too similar to " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " at times . Which is also the main reason why I still regard " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " as a better movie . It came first and therefor it's more original and refreshing . Basically " Snatch . " is just more of the same . Not that more of the same is a bad thing in this case but it's just of course not as refreshing and original as with " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " was the case . If you like a well constructed movie with a solid and complex story told from multiple points of views this is a sort of movie that you'll love . Also highly recommendable if you liked " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " , of course . I don't mind seeing more movies like this being made .
A movie of visual splendor and a mixture of styles .	This movie is a visual experience of different styles , all combined with also some trademark Tarantino elements . The movie is obviously a case of style over substance . In essence the movie is just a basic revenge flick without too much depth or meaning . This however is exactly like how Tarantino intended it to be . " Kill Bill : Vol . 1 " is simple , straightforward , completely over-the-top but above all beautifully shot and superbly directed . The movie its story comes totally secondary , as Tarantino used this movie as an experimental tool to mix several , mostly Asian cinema , styles together and blend it into one big visual experience of violence and unusual over-the-top looking sequences . His aim was style and with that this movie most certainly does not disappoint . Always when looking at a Tarantino movie , it becomes obviously that he's a big movie buff and movie lover . Tarantino really shows his love for - and pays homage to Asian cinema and especially anime . Most notably of course in the animated segment ( that is great by the way ) but also in almost every action / fight sequence in the movie and its violence . It gives the movie its own unique style and an overall atmosphere of ' coolness ' . The violence is definitely brutal and straightforward , as gallons of blood are spilled in this movie . But all of the violence is done in such a , deliberately , over-the-top and fake looking way , that it becomes entertaining , rather than shocking or stomach turning . It even becomes poetically beautiful to watch at times . The action sequences are definitely the best parts of the movie and they are well choreographed and shot . When things get too graphic the movie simple conveniently switches to black & white or turns to other creative cinematic solutions . The power of this movie is definitely in its visual style and overall style of directing . The movie uses different themes throughout the movie but yet the movie manages to create one big unique identity . The movie never feels incoherent or disjointed in its style or storytelling , though it all widely differs from each other at times . I think that this is mainly thanks to Tarantino's directing , who keeps the movie and different styles all on one and the same line . Visually the movie is also definitely helped by Robert Richardson fantastic cinematography , who should at least had been rewarded with an Oscar nomination for it . The movie is filled with some big name actors , though not all play a significant part in the movie yet ( see " Kill Bill : Vol . 2 " for that ) . Uma Thurman is truly superb as the Bride and I can honestly say that this is her best role out of her career . She also was rewarded with a Golden Globe nomination for it . Also really superb in her role was Lucy Liu . Again , also her best role yet . Not of all the trademark Tarantino elements work out well in the movie I definitely missed the typical trademark Tarantino dialog in this movie and for also for most part the trademark non-linear storytelling felled pointless and didn't really served a purpose for the story . It therefor really isn't Tarantino's best but it's definitely his most experimental and most visually orientated , style-full , splendid movie . Unusual , over-the-top but strangely intriguing , entertaining and overall brilliant . Yet another Tarantino must-see !
A special effects feast .	Along with " Jason and the Argonauts " ( 1963 ) this was one of the movies that had the biggest influence on the evolution of special effects . " The Incredible Shrinking Man " for me is a movie in which the story for me plays no importance at all . I just watch this movie to enjoy the early and many special effects . Sure , most of them now days look almost ridiculous and outdated but I can appreciate and enjoy them . It's wonderful to watch the special effects as they are one of the earliest in movie history and set the trend for many future movies to come . But honestly , I also have to give credit for the story . From a movie like this you would expect that it heavily leans on the special effects alone but the creators actually spend lots of effort on the story and manages to put some extra layers , emotions and deeper meanings in it . There are some truly classical scene's which involves the main character Scott Carey ( played by Grant Williams ) fighting against a cat and the final fight against a spider . It's a kind of like an early Shelob versus Sam fight from " The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King " and it's very similar in many ways . The mother of future science fiction movies , a must see .
A true great classic comedy from the Marx brothers .	The movie features all kinds of different comedy . Slapstick , comical dialog , subtle humor , exaggerated staged humor , funny musical numbers tons of sexual innuendo . It's a broad mixture of high class comedy elements that were common and know back in the ' 30's . It basically makes this movie fun to watch for everyone , no matter what your referenced type of humor is . This movie has it all and knows to combine it into one big successful comical style for this movie . The movie features the four Marx brother's but this truly still is mostly a Groucho Marx . He really plays the lead role of the movie , which perhaps sort of goes at the expense of the talent of his brothers but he perhaps also was the best of the bunch , so it's not as if the movie suffers from his central presence . Also the rest of the supporting actors are good and are definitely comfortable with the genre . The movie for instance also features Edgar Kennedy , who is best know for his roles in the Laurel & Hardy movies , often as a cop . What also mostly surprised me about the movie was its look . Back in the ' 30's most money was not spend on comedies and they were often simple and cheap made movies . But this movie has the same good and expensive look as an ' 30's swashbuckler , so to speak . It has good big looking sets and some nice costume design . Well , of course the movie its story is rather simple and predictable . It also isn't truly original and so aren't the situations and characters really . It all had been done before in past comedies , for instance by Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton and this is the only reason why I just can't really give this movie a perfect rating . However the execution of it all still makes this an highly original and effective genre movie to watch .
A great movie within its genre , due to its solidly written story .	This is a real old fashioned film noir alright . No way a movie like this could be made - and work out as well now days . This movie is even more film noir-like than most genre movies I have seen . What makes this movie even more film-noir like than others is its story . It has an incredible amount of twists and turns in it . Characters reappear at unexpected moments , you don't know who to thrust and the story will leave you guessing to the end . The movie starts simple with a man who hires a private detective to find his wife but the plot starts to thicken more and more rapidly after that . Yes , it's a complicated story but its also such a fine written one that you can't help to be sucked in by it . It's quite atmospheric , though perhaps not as atmospheric as other genre movies . It's really more it's story than anything else that makes this movie such a classic film-noir . It also doesn't feature the best genre actors but the acting is still fine , mostly due to its simply wonderful dialog and script . Its tough dialog is typical for its genre and provides the movie with a really typical sense of style and atmosphere . A great movie within its genre .
Great non-stop fun !	I wish I had discovered this movie earlier ! I haven't laughed that much during a movie since a long time . The movie was extremely fun and entertaining . The humor is slapstick / cartoon like . It was like watching one of those old Hannah-Barbera cartoons . The comical sequences were constructed extremely well and the timing by director Blake Edwards was brilliant ! I laughed and smiled my way through this movie . The story and the situations in this movie are just crazy ! It's typical Blake Edwards like and the humor in it can be compared to his early Pink Panther movies . There are some unforgettable comical moments and situations . The movie features a great stereotypical Western Saloon fight in which everyone fights everyone and it also features a great good old fashioned pie fight . 2 fine examples of some hilarious and memorable comical sequences . The movie is truly supported by the highly fun musical score by Henry Mancini . The movie has an absolutely amazing cast . Tony Curtis is a perfect leading man and Jack Lemmon is highly entertaining as the stereotypical ' villain ' . Lemmon plays a double-role in this movie , besides Professor Fate he also plays Prince Hapnik . I had never seen him playing a character ( s ) like this in a movie . It is extremely over-the-top of course but it's highly fun to watch and he seemed to had lots of fun playing in this movie . His dumb stereotypical henchman is played by Peter Falk , before he got fame for playing Lt . Columbo . Natalie Wood is also enjoyable in her role . Only thing that too bad about this movie is that it's too long . The movie is like two and an halve hours long . It's not that the movie ever gets boring or tiresome after a while . It's just that some of the events in the movie feel stretched out and are perhaps a bit overdone . They could and should had reduced the movie to keep it more consistent . If you like silly cartoon-like humor or are a fan of the Pink Panther movie's , than this is an absolute must see ! As a matter fact , everyone should just simply watch this movie ! It's highly entertaining and fun !
Truly one of the best action movies ever made .	Who would had ever guessed that after the disappointing standard action sequel " Die Hard 2 " , the third entry in the Die Hard-series would be such an infinite amount times better and actual be amongst one of the best action movies ever made . Yes , I even find this movie to be better than the first " Die Hard " movie . I don't think a lot of people expected a third Die Hard movie , 5 years after the last entry , and they surely didn't expected much good from it . But all I can say that John McTiernan has really did it again ! John McTiernan plain and simple used to be the best action director in the business in the late ' 80's and early ' 90's . He made many hits but he made even more flops though , which sort of gave him a bad reputation in the business . Lets hope he starts making good movies soon again , because when he makes a good movie it's not just something good , it's really GOOD . This movie was perhaps his last really good movie , as of yet . He's in top shape and gives this movie a lot of pace and adrenaline pumping action . Even the sequences in which no action is occurring makes your adrenaline pump , due to the fine action film-making style of McTiernan . You also have to watch this movie in perspective . It was made in 1995 , in those days the Micheal Bay's and the Jerry Bruckheimer's of the business didn't made any real BIG action blockbusters yet . The Lethal Weapon - and the Rambo movies were the only real big action movies of that time , with occasionally also a Schwarzenegger flick thrown in . Mostly the type of overblown action movies in which the good guy never runs out of ammo and explosions and crashes were being shown from 3 different angles in a row , all in slow-motion . In that regard " Die Hard : With a Vengeance " was a real refreshing action movie , that feels more realistic , mostly thanks to the anti-hero John McClane but also the style of filming and the handling of the action . This also was like THE biggest action movie ever made at that time . But what really made the movie great to me was its story . It begins as a fun and sort of adventurous game in which New York City is the playground . McClane has to solve all kinds of riddles , to avoid a terrorist from setting off bombs hidden in the city . The terrorist that also happens to be the brother of Hans Gruber , who McClane threw off the Nakatomi building . It however soon becomes obvious that this is not what the movie is going to be about and it's not just another revenge flick and it's just a diversion of a way bigger terrorist plan . It's a cleverly constructed and build-up action movie , that will also offer some surprises . It's not just an action filled movie , it also has lots of comedy in it , which adds to the reason why this is a very fun and pleasant one to watch . The fun mostly comes from the Samuel L . Jackson character . He and Bruce Willis form a mismatched buddy-duo , which also makes this movie an action buddy-flick , only more cleverly disguised and less obvious than similar conceptional movies , of which so many got made at that time . Out of all the Die Hard movies , this is perhaps the one that requires the most acting from Bruce Willis . He does a good job with it and his character is also perhaps the most likable in this one . Samuel L . Jackson is also just great as always . Jeremy Irons perhaps plays his most villainous role in this movie and what a great truly memorable movie villain it is ! He also does a good job with the German accent , even though the actual German spoken in this movie is mostly incoherent gibberish . The movie also benefits from it that for the first part of the movie only his voice is featured . He of course has a great distinctive voice ! This really is how an action movie should be like ; fun , fast , adrenaline pumping , action filled , not too over-the-top , exciting , tense , surprising , good actors , likable main character and NO love story thrown in to it ! This movie has really got it all ! The perfect action movie and truly among the best of all time .
How was this movie overlooked by the Academy ? - One of the most brilliant movies of the ' 90's .	How come that this movie was completely overlooked by most big award ceremonies ? Probably because of its controversial subjects . It's brilliantly written and directed and brilliantly acted out by its cast members . It's perhaps the most overlooked movies from the ' 90's and is on a level of brilliance I haven't seen a movie on for a long time . This is one of those movies that grabs and doesn't let go . It makes you forget the time and everything else that is happening around you . I haven't watched a movie in that way since like forever . It made " Happiness " a truly unique viewing experience that left a big impression . The movie kept me thinking for hours afterward and I could hardly sleep because of it . Here they are ; characters we often hear and read about in the papers and on TV . Characters we simply think of as being unsympathetic monsters , we don't want to spend too much thoughts about . I'm talking about pedophiles and phone sex masturbaters , among others . This movie shows that in truth often those people are nothing more than common persons , with a good job , money and a family of their own . They could be a colleague of yours , a neighbor or even a family member . A person you think you know but without ever truly knowing what is going on in their heads and what their perverted sexual fantasies and preferences are . The movie shows that these sort of things could happen in your neighborhood or somebody you know . It's shocking and confronting but of course closer to the truth then them just being cold-hearted ruthless monsters , even though the thought of it is strangely more comforting . The fact that it all are ' ordinary ' persons is far more shocking . None of the characters wants to be that way , they just ARE that way . " Happiness " does a good job at creating a realistic environment and story lines and connecting all those different lines together in the movie . The movie follows multiple different characters and therefor also story lines but the movie never gets disjointed even though of course every storyline has its weaker and less interesting moments . It also doesn't make the movie confusing or unnecessary hard to follow , like some other directors would probably have done with the story ( Alejandro González Iñárritu or Steven Soderbergh springs to mind . ) The movie instead chooses a light comedy like approach . Comedies really don't get darker than this . Despite its heavy subjects , the movie is also still fun to watch , with some great funny moments . It in a way makes the movie also more accessible to a wider range of audience . The movie is of course also truly uplifted by its fine cast . Even actors who I normally don't really like ( like Lara Flynn Boyle ) were just great . While watching this movie it made me realize something ; Philip Seymour Hoffman is probably my favorite actor at the moment . What can I say , he's just great ! I'm glad he finally won an Oscar last year . Finally true recognition for one of the best actors in the business , not just now but of all time . But it in all honesty is Dylan Baker who gives the best performance . He without doubt plays the toughest role of the movie , a married , with children , psychiatrist pedophile . He manages to make the character in a way more accessible and understandable . Especially the sequences with his teenage son , who is starting to discover his own sexuality , are greatly done and very powerful , especially toward the end of the movie . Also Jane Adams delivers a notable performance , as a ( too ) kind person who gets exploited by others because of it . The pain and inner-conflicts of the characters as portrayed in this movie are almost sensible . If you want to or not , this movie makes you look differently at the world and the sexual ' perverts ' we hear and read about . It therefor makes " Happiness " a powerful and effective , thought provoking portrayal , of real life humane characters .
Believe it or not , it's one of my favorite movies .	How good can a Star Wars fan film get ? Want to know the answer ? Then go and watch " The Formula " ! Problem with many Star Wars fan films is that many of them are the same and are basically a lame excuse to do a lightsaber duel , which are mostly set in a forest . " The Formula " perfectly spoofs this but without making the fan filmers ridiculous . It's kind of the same as Tim Burton's " Ed Wood " and it's more of a homage to all the fan filmers . In a way it also makes me proud of being a Star Wars fan . The movie has a great story . What makes the story so great are probably the characters that are in it and some good dialogue . Many of the situations will be very recognizable for those who have ever made or did an attempt of making a Star Wars fan film . The humor plays a crucial element in the movie and gives it a very good fun kind of feeling . There are some clever jokes and the movie spoofs more than just the Star Wars movies . My favorite element of the movie are the two stereotype Trekkies that are in it , those two are absolutely hilarious and have some great dialogue and show that Star Wars fans are not so nerdy after all , when you compare to them ( no offense Trekkie ; - ) ) . Sure the movie is not completely flawless . Lets face it , it is and stays an amateur movie . But it's made with much profession , love and passion that'll forget you're watching a low / no-budget amateur movie . But that still doesn't mean that it is always perfect . For instance of course the acting is at times simply weak and not all of the jokes are successful . But in no way all of that weakens the excellence of this movie . Wonderful film with tons of fun ! Especially recommendable for those who are a bit familiar in the Star Wars fan film community .
Powerful emotional horror classic .	The movie its strength is not in the horror but in the characters . The Frankenstein creature is a great tragic character and the emotions in this movie are really powerful . The Frankenstein monster is the most classic horror monster in my opinion . Yes , I'm a bigger fan of the Dracula character and movies but there is no denying that the Frankenstein monster is the most intriguing and tragic classic horror movie character . The make-up for the character is fantastic and although Boris Karloff is of course heavily overacting , he's perfect for the role , mainly because of his typical face and eyes . It also was wonderful to see Edward Van Sloan in this . Van Sloan is also known for playing Van Helsing in the classic " Dracula " movie and one of its sequels ; " Dracula's Daughter " and the other classic and well known movie " The Mummy " , also with Boris Karloff in it . So this guy has basically played in the three best , most influential and most well known horror classics of the ' 30's . He's a wonderful and great actor , certainly among my favorite of the ' 30's period along with Bela Lugosi . In my opinion the movie is better as a drama than as an horror movie . It's not necessarily scary but more emotional and tragic . A perfect classic masterpiece that simply is a must see .
Fantastic stuff !	This is one of the first real action movies as we know it today , ever made . The movie has lots of explosions and gun - and fist fights . The story is told in a fast pace with lots of cuts , even though the movie itself isn't short at all ( 158 minutes . ) . Even though it is still a war movie , this movie isn't as heavy and or serious as many other WW II movies made in the same period . It is kind of in the same style as " The Guns of Navarone " ( Also written by Alistair MacLean . ) . It's more is adventurous and fun to watch than heavy or realistic . Director Brian G . Hutton later also made the other ' fun ' / adventurous / WW II movie " Kelly's Heroes " . Another element that distinct this movie from other movies from the same genre is the story . The story by famous writer Alistair MacLean is just brilliant ! It begins as an average WW II rescue-mission movie but as the movie progresses the story takes several twists , until at a certain point you don't even know who to thrust anymore . The ending is really action-movie-like spectacular and features a tense fight an a moving cable-car followed by the perhaps even better car chase , which really reminded of the chase were Indy and his father are escaping the Nazi's on the motorcycle , in " Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade " Even the music sounded kind of similar ! I wouldn't be surprised if Spielberg and Williams were inspired by this movie . The same goes for many other movie directors and other persons in the movie business by the way . I see similarities between this movie with ' modern ' work quite often , both in story and characters as well as the action , editing and many other elements from this movie . This really is an inspirational movie , that as an action movie , just like as for instance " North by Northwest " , was far ahead of its time . It was a bit strange to see Clint Eastwood in the sidekick role . The main character of the movie is played by the legendary Richard Burton . Both actors really push this movie to an higher level with their profession and expertise and both are very believable in their roles . An entertaining , action packed adventurous war movie with a splendid story and two wonderful performances from the two main actors .
Absolutely , totally fantastic !	Watching this movie is like watching a 179 or 223 minutes long action sequence . The pace is incredibly high . Alright I have to admit that the Extended Edition of the " The Lord of the Rings : The Two Towers " takes an awful lot of this pace away and make some of the scene's unnecessary long and the scene's with Treebeard are also a bit dull and long but still . . . Especially compared to the first that was just too slow at times this is an huge improvement ! Luckily there also are some welcome additions in the Extended Edition . Best addition are the scene's with Boromir , Faramir and Denethor in Osgiliath . There also are some newly great characters and actors . David Wenham is a surprisingly talented young actor and I think it's great that they actually have cast someone that really looks like Sean Bean . Bernard Hill also impressed me , he probably is best know for his role as the captain in " Titanic " in which he also already impressed me . Viggo Mortensen probably still is the best actor of " The Lord of the Rings " movies . Yes sure Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee are also more than great but Mortensen really puts some passion and effort in his character . I know Sean Astin is always being praised a lot but I seriously don't think that he is such a good actor in any of " The Lord of the Rings " movies . Andy Serkis also was really good as Gollum / Sméagol and I wouldn't had mind seeing him get an Oscar nod . Strange thing is that the Gimli and Legolas suddenly changed into some comical sidekick characters . It was odd to see but it works ! They provide some good comical relief at times . Most fantastic thing about the movie is that it's really action filled . The Battle of Helm's Deep truly is fantastic to see . Still favorite and most powerful moment of the movie is when the Ent's march to war . Also the scene's with the riders of Rohan are a true spectacle . I've never been really a big fan of the editing of " The Lord of the Rings " movies and this one is no exception . Problem is that Peter Jackson shot way too many hours of footage with as a result that the editors have difficulties picking the right scene's and the length of them . But " The Lord of the Rings : The Two Towers " is one of those movies were the pluses make more than up for the minuses . A spectacular adventure action experience .
The perfect ending for a great trilogy !	Wow , what a movie ! It's not only the best of " The Lord of the Rings " trilogy , it also is one of the best movies of the past couple of years . " The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King " is a totally spectacular movie . It has some of the most amazing battle scene's in movie history . The word spectacular isn't good enough to describe it , it's breathtaking , epic and emotional involving . Who didn't wanted to pick up a sword and shield and charge with Aragorn towards a large number of Orcs for honor and glory ? Even though the special effects are far from the best ever , Peter Jackson is a master in mixing the special effect with real life action . The use of it never feels overdone and the result is spectacular as well as believable . I think lot's of people were worried after " The Lord of the Rings : The Two Towers " after seeing the battle of Helm's Deep . How was Peter Jackson ever going to top that great battle ? Well , with " The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King " he topped it alright ! The battle for Middle Earth is something you've never seen before . Greatest moment was when the riders of Rohan charged , it was really a moment in which you felt the true meaning of fighting and dying with honor . Also great moment during the immensely large battle were the fights against the oliphaunts , just when you thought the battle was over , those large creatures appeared ! Really great moment . The characters are possibly at their best in this movie . No characters need introductions anymore and we get to see the deepest of their emotions in this movie , even Gollum's ! Still the movie is not really deserving to be third in the top 250 here on IMDb . com . It's also not really deserving all those Oscar's it won . Like all The Lord of the Rings movies , it's great , spectacular and absolutely breathtaking at times but not classic masterpieces in my book . Also the movie is far from flawless . Once again the editing is just poor at times and what was with the ending ? Couldn't they just think of one ending ? I expected the end credits to start rolling multiple times during the ending but it just went on and on . Despite some of those flaws it still is an excellent movie with some unforgettable battle's sequence's . Truly a wonderful ending for one of the greatest movie trilogies in history .
Truly a classic epic !	Ben-Hur is the mother of epic movies ! Everything about it is big and brilliant . This is one of the few classic movie that has stand the test of time . Even now the movie is spectacular , grand and breathtaking . Even the acting is timeless . Despite it's long running time it never gets close of getting boring . It's mainly because of the story that is just so big and interesting . I especially love the religious scene's and I'm not even a religious person ! The movie is full of grand scene's with of course the chariot race as the highlight of the movie . Visually the movie looks beautiful . Not only the sets look extremely realistic but also the costumes are more then excellent and Miklós Rózsa's musical score adds to the brilliance of the movie . Even after almost 50 years it's still a feast for the senses . This is just a movie that you at least must have seen once in your life . There is nothing more to say about this movie then that it's brilliant ! Go see it now . . .
An essential ' 60's viewing .	This movie is among the best of the ' 60's . It's a definite must see due to its magnificent acting and compelling storytelling . " Bonnie and Clyde " is a very entertaining movie and tells the somewhat changed and romanticized true story of the famous bank robbing couple and their gang . The story is brought lightly and with quite some humor which makes this movie a pleasant one to watch , even though of course the story itself is quite heavy . What makes " Bonnie and Clyde " truly a memorable movie , are the acting performances . Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway are truly great as Bonnie and Clyde and the supporting cast is strong . It features a young and unknown Gene Hackman and Gene Wilder . Wilder already showed his comical talent in a small and entertaining funny role in this movie . One year later he would receive real fame for playing in the movie " The Producers " directed by Mel Brooks . The story of the movie is very intriguing , original and interesting to follow . It's rare for a movie that you cheer for the bad guys . If it hadn't been based on a true story , " Bonnie and Clyde " would had been a very unbelievable and unlikely movie to watch but knowing that all of it really happened makes the movie interesting and a wonderful experience to watch . The movie beautifully recreates a ' 30's American atmosphere , with some fine looking cars , sets and costumes . This movie is definitely one of the must sees from the ' 60's and is an absolutely perfect and entertaining movie to watch , time after time .
Blink once and you'll miss something funny !	The jokes and comical moments are all performed in such an incredible high pace and very well timed and choreographed . The comical moments follow each other very rapidly . Big over-the-top hilarious situations as well as small subtle ones . You have no time to think about the one joke , since the next one is already occurring at that very moment . The movie is that fast going . Blink once and you'll miss something funny . This is slapstick film-making at its very best . Charles Chaplin performs his role with great charisma and agility , It's a quite psychical movie for him . The movie features jumping , falling and climbing , as you would obviously expect from a ' 30's slapstick movie . I must admit that a few of the Chaplin movies don't live up to their reputations but this one on the other hand really does . It's certainly one of the best comedies of the ' 30's and of all time . A true timeless comedy classic ! But as you would expect from a Chaplin movie , it also is a movie with lots of heart and humanity . No matter how crazy the movie gets in parts , the movie never loses any of its credibility when it comes down to its drama and pureness . The movie is also made in a more realistic style , rather than a comical one that clearly and also predictably builds up toward a comical situations . This makes the movie all the more hilarious and strengthens the comical moments . The movie just doesn't only rely on its jokes and Chaplin antics but also has a great and compelling story of its own . It's a quite well written story , that moves over to a lot of different places and locations throughout and is therefore also loaded with lots of characters and situations . It makes the movie also very original . An absolute delightful movie !
A real horror classic and among the best of all time .	This movie might very well be one of the best horror movies of all time , together with movies like " Poltergeist " , " Dawn of the Dead ( 1978 ) " " The Exorcist " and " The Texas Chain Saw Massacre ( 1974 ) " . I didn't expected it to be but this movie was just brilliant . Certainly the best slasher movie ever made . There are several things that make this movie a good horror classic . Of course the classic ' killer ' Freddy Kruger is one of them . Another thing is the concept . Yes , the story of course is just simply ridiculous at times but it's the perfect concept to fill a movie with , with some scary scene's and brutal killings with tons of blood . The movie has the same scary gritty atmosphere like a horror movie from the 70's , when the horror genre was at an all-time high . The actors are giving their best but some of the dialog is just plain cheesy . Still I think that the actors should deserve more credit then they are getting right now , especially Johnny Depp made a impressive movie debut . The talent was already showing , back then . His role in this movie was way bigger than I expected it to be by the way . Really entertaining horror classic . Some things might look cheesy , especially the ending ( I really laughed my butt off ! ) and the story in general but the atmosphere , gore and Kruger make up everything ! Guess you have to be a fan of the genre to fully appreciate it though .
Brilliantly constructed silent comedy short with Laurel & Hardy for the first time together as a comical duo .	This is not the funniest Laurel & Hardy comedy short but still it's a great movie due to the way the movie is constructed . This was not the first movie with starring both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy in it ( they both appeared before in the movies " 45 Minutes from Hollywood " and " A Lucky dog " . ) but it was the first movie of the two appearing as a comical duo . Therefor this movie already is a bit of a must-see . It's an historical significant movie , that marked one of the very first step of silent-movie history . No , it certainly ain't an hilarious movie but it rather is a very well constructed movie , with an excellent story and extremely good timing and pace . The editing was truly superb and kept the pace high , as well as the movie itself consistent . It all helps to make " Duck Soup " a very pleasant and amusing movie to watch . Stan Laurel is already great in his role but Oliver Hardy still obviously had to grown into his role . The beginning is there but he's not quite perfect yet . The subtle little things that made his character so great are still missing in this movie . Luckily the boys already have some great chemistry together in this movie . Not an hilarious movie but a very well constructed and amusing one , with Laurel & Hardy for the very first time together as a comical duo .
A piece of movie history .	By owning this movie you own a little piece of movie history . The absolute most fantastic thing about " Reservoir Dogs " is the brilliant dialog . The movie is one big memorable quote and it alone makes the movie more then worth to watch . Another wonderful thing about the movie are the characters . Rarely has there ever been so many great , cool and memorable characters in one movie . Maybe it's because of the amazing cast , everyone is perfect in their role I'm not going to especially mention a few because I feel I then won't do enough credit to the others and credit they deserve ! The story is told in an unique way by using flashbacks from how they all got the assignment for the mission and flashbacks from after the robbery , not shown in the right order . And it works wonderful ! It's a shear pleasure to watch from beginning till end . The hand held camera work gives the movie an extra cool feeling , it might look a bit unprofessional but it's nothing more then a brilliant addition to an already brilliant movie . The nice and cool " Super sounds of the 70's " soundtrack also adds to this , especially the now world famous thanks to the movie " Little Green Bag " from the George Baker Selection . The movie is full with memorable moments such as the fantastic opening , the cop torture sequence and the Mexican stand-off at the end . But between all those scene's there are lot's of other moments which you will never forget . Brilliant movie . An absolute must see !
A piece of art !	This movie truly is a piece of cinematic science-fiction art . People who say the last couple of years that George Lucas is a bad writer and director should be forced to go and watch this movie . The movie is very artistic and therefor is not really that watchable for everybody . Fans of the science-fiction genre however will love this movie . Star Wars fans will also notice some subtle things and elements in this movie , that Lucas later used , mostly in " Star Wars : Episode IV - A New Hope " . A lot of professional people were involved in this brilliant serious big movie debut by George Lucas . Producer Francis Ford Coppola , composer Lalo Schifrin , Walter Murch and actor Donald Pleasence . Robert Duvall plays the main part in the movie but he was a fairly unknown actor at the time . Donald Pleasence really was a wonderful actor and he shows that once more in this movie . Robert Duvall also really is excellent as the main character THX 1138 . The story really is secondary in this movie . It's all about the visuals . The special effects in this movie were also surprising good especially when considering that this movie was made in 1971 . The movie also knows to be tense at the right times and the end chase is pretty spectacular and nicely done . I for one truly love this perfect piece of visual art . Not a movie for everyone though .
An adventure of great proportions .	Possibly the first science-fiction movie ever created , " Le Voyage dans la lune " tells us the story of a group of astronomers who travel to the moon by being shot in a capsule from a giant cannon . More than 100 years later , the movie is still adventurous and spectacular to watch . The movie has a great and intriguing imaginary story , of course based on the well known Jules Verne novel . Of course the events presented in this movie are heavily outdated . The astronomers can magically breath on the moon without any spacesuits and gravity also is not a problem . It becomes all the more hilarious when they decide to take a nap on the moon under a couple of blankets . A man can also fall from space Earth into the water and lives to tell the story . The moon is also filled with lots of giant mushrooms and strange hostile aliens and the moon and stars all have faces . Of course totally ridicules all but what did they know back then ? Space traveling wasn't possible and astronomers knew very little about space and life in space . Even cars , radios , airplanes were yet had to be developed at the time for commercial use . But in essence the movie also has a core of truth in it , about the capsule being shot into space like a bullet . In that regard this movie is quite amazing and revolutionary about its ideas , though of course most credit for that have to go to Jules Verne . Director Georges Méliès makes the story work out believable and entertaining , with lots of early special effects and some overall great storytelling . The movie is only a couple of minutes short but that doesn't mean its not well developed . Lots of different stuff happens in the movie , from the building of the capsule , to the actual launch and landing on the moon and the astronomers mishaps with the hostile aliens and their king . Some of the early effects are amazing , obviously especially for 1902 standards but I perhaps liked the set decoration and costumes even more . It gives the movie a really great adventurous and imaginatively look and feel . It makes the movie very pleasant and entertaining to watch , even by todays standards . Definitely a revolutionary and important classic movie , in terms of its directing , story and special effects , that also is surprisingly entertaining to watch still .
A movie with characters in their purest form .	In " What's Eating Gilbert Grape " we get to see different characters in their purest form . All of the characters are understandable and easy to relate to in all of their actions . It makes the emotions and drama elements in this movie feel all very real . For fans of Scandinavian cinema this movie is nothing new . Movies like this are getting made for years now over there . " What's Eating Gilbert Grape " however reaches a wider range of people and make more people see the beauty and brilliance of slow cinema , in which everything is build up very slow and the story is told like a documentary like observation of the different characters . Man and was Leonardo DiCaprio brilliant in this ! Even the most hardened DiCaprio hater should have to admit this . He is totally believable as a mentally-challenged young boy . He really stole the show . Also the rest of the cast is more than great . Johnny Depp is as good as always and Mary Steenburgen and Darlene Cates also know to impress . Yet the movie is more than just an emotional drama , it also knows how to be funny and entertaining about certain things at the right times without making the movie less powerful in any way . There really is nothing wrong with the piece of cinema brilliance and everything is simply perfect and works very well .
It still is one of the best alien ' invasion ' movies ever made .	This movie is so totally refreshing different than its fellow genre movies from the ' 50's ! Everyone has a certain images in their mind about ' 50's science-fiction movies , with flying saucers of which you can see the wires , aliens with bad make-up effects and simple plots . The type of Ed Wood movies . " The Day the Earth Stood Still " is a much , much different movie fortunately ! It's not a movie that tries to impress , it's instead more of a movie that tries to provoke and at all time remain as realistic as possible . The movie its message is clear and ( unfortunately ) it still applies today , just as much as it did over 50 years ago . Normally these type of movies from this time period would be about aliens causing mayhem and destruction , by trying to take over or simply destroy the Earth . This movie does begin as one of those sort of movies but soon starts to take a positive turn , when it starts to totally focus on its script and story , rather than any action or over-the-top science-fiction moments . It's a clever and provoking movie . Everything happening in this movie happens with a reason . The way the alien visits Earth and tries to discover things and places is done in a great way . It's a reflecting and objective view of a neutral person . It's really a movie that holds up a mirror to the world and therefor works great and effective as a social commentary , that still applies today . The movie has some great convincing special effects ( especially for ' 50's standards of course ) that are still acceptable by today standards . The movie is not as cheap looking as most of the genre movies from the same time period , though I imaging this movie had just such an high budget as any other . So also real big kudos to director Robert Wise who brought it all so very well and convincing to the screen . Robert Wise would later make also such science-fiction classics as " The Andromeda Strain " and " Star Trek : The Motion Picture " . Another thing that makes this movie distinct itself from other is the classic Bernard Herrmann score . The main character is greatly played by the unknown Michael Rennie . He really has the right looks of an alien in human form . Also surprising how important and strong the female character played by Patricia Neal in this movie is . The always great Sam Jaffe also plays a good , though small role in the movie . But the real classic and most memorable character of the movie is the robot Gort , played by the very tall Lock Martin . Even though it's not a character that talks or even movies a lot , it's still one that impresses very much , just by its looks and actions . He has become a real classic ! A real refreshing genre classic about still ' hot ' subjects !
Fantastic thriller !	No matter how often I watch this movie , I just never grow tired of it . It's a movie that I always enjoy watching and I find it to be a very entertaining one . The movie has a wonderful story . It's also an unique one , because it for once focuses more on the bad guy than on the good guys . The movie follows the assassin , nicknamed the jackal , on his mission to murder the French president De Gaulle . We see his preparations and how he slowly maneuvers himself into positions , and mingles with people and blend in with the crowd , all to achieve his goal . Of course not everything is going as planned and he has to improvise his way through situations , at times , while the police is getting closer and closer to finding out his true identity - and his track . The entire story is extremely well constructed and build up fantastic . The story takes it time to unfold things and everything eventually leads up to the fantastic end finale , that truly is unforgettable , as is the entire movie as a whole . The cast is also a reason why this movie works so very well and is an unforgettable one . The cast of the movie is not filled with some ' big ' well known names but rather with some excellent , lesser known actors , that were cast because of their abilities to play the character and not because of their well known name . Edward Fox shines as the jackal and he perhaps plays his most memorable part out of his career . Michael Lonsdale , who plays the main ' good guy ' of the movie but yet is only introduced half way through the movie , also plays one of his best and most memorable roles . It certainly is a good and at times tense thriller but it mostly also is a very entertaining one to watch . It's no heavy movie and despite its long running time , the movie never has a slow or lesser moment in it . It's a very consistent movie , due to it's well written script and most excellent directing , from multiple Oscar winning - and nominee , director Fred Zinnemann . For the people who can appreciate a movie with a well build up thriller-story , this is a most definite must-see ! Truly one of the very best thrillers and also certainly one of the most enjoyable ones ever made . It's yet another essential ' 70's viewing .
A classic in every sense of the word .	I think it is bad luck that " Don't Look Now " was released in the same year as " The Exorcist " , or else this might be a better known and more appreciated one of a kind masterpiece . " Don't Look Now " is an horror movie but not one like you would expect it to be . It isn't a movie that scares you with some scene's , it is a movie that gets into you and just won't let go and builds up a nightmare like tension . The atmosphere is fantastic and gives the movie a haunting feeling . Venice really works as the perfect backdrop for this movie . The best movie set in Venice ever ? Even though there aren't any scary sequences in the movie , the ending is really horrifying , it really freaked me out the first time I saw it , I think 5 years ago . On my second viewing , not too long ago I was prepared for the ending but it still was a very scary thing to watch ! The storytelling might seem slow but it works perfect for the movie and its tension . There are some brilliant moments in the movie that all come together once the ending approaches . The editing and cinematography are perfect , as are the performances by the cast . And what is a decent comment without mentioning the famous love scene ? Ah yes , the love scene , it really is one of the best love scene's ever . It is brilliantly filmed and even more brilliantly edited . Quite Stylish , as is the entire movie . This classic masterpiece certainly deserves more recognition !
Horror in a way you wouldn't expect . Sensible and unpleasant . An unique one in its genre .	The movie is often classified as an horror movie and it also is on basically every horror top-list published , but truth is that this movie isn't really an horror movie in terms of having all of the standard required horror elements . I just say this as a little warning , since I have the impression that lots of people are watching this just because of the reason that it always tops all kinds of different horror-lists . It still is a movie with unpleasant and oppressed undertones and yes , it's of course based on a Stephen King novel , so it's totally understandable that this movie is classified as an horror movie , but it's not the kind of horror you would expect . The movie is far from standard , which is perhaps the biggest reason why this movie works out as such an horror like one , but in totally original way of its own . The characters and situations are all unpredictable . You never know what to expect , which adds to the atmosphere of the movie . But the movie is also really powerful and effective as a drama . I remember when I first watched this movie I was still too young to be able to read the subtitles , so there was no way I could understand what the movie was about , but I could still totally feel for the main character and feel her fear for her mother and at school . It's of course also absolutely thanks to Sissy Spacek's great performance that this comes across so effectively . It makes you feel and sympathize for the main character , even though she is a really unusual person and extremely shy , insecure person . I think that everyone had a sort of Carrie like person in their class at high school ( althouh I hope not as extreme as this one ! ) , which also makes it easy to relate to the events and characters within the movie . I was also surprised at some of the light and fun elements within the movie . Apparently also some of the actors thought they were making a comedy during the production of this movie . Some parts of the movie really reminded me of some good old fashioned high-school comedies . But of course the comedy goes never at the expense of the movie its tension or dramatic elements . The comedy just makes sure that this movie isn't a complete dark one . The comedy is used to draw the people more into the movie and makes us feel more at ease , rather than pushing them away with only heavy distant drama and an uneasy atmosphere . I think Brian De Palma did a really good job at this ! The best horror and tension also works out best when a movie makes you feel at ease first , rather than constantly trying to scare you , also with its atmosphere . Yes , the movie is also still a real Brian De Palma movie , so expect lots of unusual , artistic and often long shots . The movie has some typical De Palma moments in it , especially toward the ending during the prom . He also knows to build up the tension and a sequence in a way only he can . It's part of the reason why the ending is such a legendary one . The whole end-prom sequence is really an extremely memorable and brilliantly shot and constructed one , also once again thanks to its wonderful build-up of the inevitable events to come . It's one of the most extreme and totally straight-forward sequences , which makes sure that it will stay with you forever . For most part the movie also works out so great due to its acting . All of the student characters are very authentic and it helps that they are being played by not the greatest actors around . Let's face it , Amy Irving , Nancy Allen and William Katt never really became the famous respected actors everybody expected them to become in those days . Sissy Spacek really plays the role out of her career as Carrie White . You totally feel and sympathize for this girl . And Piper Laurie also plays a totally great and effective character , that perhaps is the most evil and scary one out of the entire movie , as the religious-freak and mother of Carrie . Also of course the early - and quite big movie role for John Travolta in this movie is already sort of a legendary one . It's truly an unique movie to watch . There never had been a movie like " Carrie " before and there almost most certainly won't be another one like it . Brian De Palma himself tried it a couple of years later with his movie " The Fury " but I think that experience made him realize how totally unique in its sort " Carrie " actually was and still is .
It still is the best movie about the civil war ever made .	Being far from the most politically correct or historical important movie about the civil war , it still remains the best made and told movies , especially considering that this movie was made in 1915 . The movie its story is very well told and beautiful brought to the screen . The style of film-making was truly revolutionary for its time , the reason why the movie , from a movie-technical point of view , is considered to be one of the most important and influential movies of the early 20th century . The movie can be divided into two separate parts . The first halve of the movie is about the start and end of the civil war and ends with the assassination of Abraham Lincoln ( that's not a spoiler is it ? ha-ha ! ) . The second halve of the movie focuses on the aftermath of the civil war , a subject that never ever really gets handled much in any other movie . The first halve is more serious dramatic and historical like , while the second is more over-the-top dramatic and the story becomes more fictional and also because of that more entertaining . Actually surprising to see how well the first halve of the movie was made . The movie had a couple of good looking mass scenes and spectacular looking battle sequences . Of course the movie as a whole is also beautiful looking with good sets and costumes . But the best thing about the movie remains its storytelling . The characters and drama get very well developed and the build of the overall storyline makes sure that the movie takes some epic-proportions at times . The directing from D . W . Griffith is extremely good . The second halve of the movie is controversial to say the least . It among other things , shows how and why the first ever Ku Klux Klan was brought to existence . Of course lots is exaggerated and everything in the story is extremely figurative black and white . You also have to keep in mind though , that the first Ku Klux Klan was different than the second and later forms of it . But still that's not an excuse for this movie to glorify the KKK and give them in this movie almost mythical like proportions . As a matter of fact the movie , among other reasons , caused the rise of the second KKK , in 1915 . I don't really understand why the filmmakers picked this approach and storyline . Not sure what they wanted to achieve with it . Still I'm able to look at this movie as a piece of well made early film-making . Guess that in a way the movie is a bit the same as " Triumph des Willens " , it's something beautiful , made for something horrible but you should still be able to appreciate how technically well and beautifully the movie is made , if you can remain objective and non-biased about the controversial subjects handled in it . The movie is too beautiful and well made to hate it . Perhaps the movie would had even been better and definitely had a better reputation of the movie ended after its first halve . And you can say and think about the ending what you want but it's both tense and spectacular . It also follows two separate story lines and cuts back and forth between them , which works all the more better and effective for the movie its tension . I think that this storytelling approach was also unique for its time but I have to admit that I'm not sure about that . The movie features perhaps a bit too many characters and plot lines , which does make the movie at times confusing to watch but then again , aren't most silent movie at least a bit confusing and unclear to follow at times ? It's also the reason why the movie is extremely long ( for its time ) but that of course is also depending on which version of the movie you're watching ( For information , I've watched the longest version ) . Of course the acting is terribly over-the-top by todays standards . Every emotion gets extremely exaggerated , mostly by the female cast , played by early big movie-stars Lillian Gish and Mae Marsh . Actors that I still liked in this movie were Ralph Lewis and George Siegmann . The movie features many at the time unknown young actors or other movie makers , who later grew out to be stars . Most notably to me were Walter Long , who would later appear in a couple of Laurel & Hardy movies and Raoul Walsh as John Wilkes Booth , who would later direct some classic - and Errol Flynn movies , mostly in the ' 40's . A must-see for every objective movie-lover .
Here it is , the most entertaining movie of all time !	Never has there been - and most likely there will never be again , such an entertaining movie as " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . Even though I still regard " Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade " a better movie , " Raiders of the Lost Ark " remains the most entertaining one of the Indy movies . The movie is a wonderfully constructed old fashioned adventure movie , with lots of action and comedy elements . Lots of traveling , exciting chase sequences , an imaginative story , fun fights , a good main character , " Raiders of the Lost Ark " has got all the elements in it to make a movie entertaining . But really what makes this movie such a good one , is thanks to all the talent involved . Spielberg is a great entertainment director , George Lucas is a great imaginatively storyteller and Harrison Ford is a great perfect ' hero ' . The three form a golden trio . You can tell by looking at this movie that the three by working together excel themselves and puss and motivate each other to a level of greatness . But it of course were not just those three that made those movie . Also kudos has to go to of course the musical score by John Williams , who created one of the most recognizable themes out of motion picture history . But it's not just the main theme that is great about the musical score , it's the entire piece of work . Other persons who deserves credit are production designer Norman Reynolds and director of photography Douglas Slocombe . All the talent involves makes this movie the ultimate entertaining movie . The movie also has some good and convincing ' early ' special effects . The movie is also very well cast . Who would had ever known that after Han Solo Harrison Ford would ever portray a memorable and good on his own character that everybody around the globe knows . Paul Freeman is great as Indiana Jones darker shadow . He's a good villain but one with class . Karen Allen is a good leading lady and she and Harrison Ford have some good chemistry together . Also memorable are John Rhys-Davies , Denholm Elliott and Ronald Lacey as the ultimate Gestapo officer Major Toht . Nazi's always make such great movie villain in movies like this . Why ? Because these guys need no introduction . When you see a Nazi you know he's a bad guy and you know he is very bad because everyone knows what those guys did in WW II . Plus of course the fact that they always wear this great looking costumes . Also now well known actor Alfred Molina shows up in a small role at the beginning of the movie . The great adventurous imaginative story provides the movie with some unforgettable moments . Especially the big action sequences are memorable . We have the market fight , which is mainly fun to watch , we have the fight in the bar , we have the airplane fight with the great indestructible Pat Roach and than we have the wonderful truck chase sequence that is very well filmed . The movie is truly action packed , which keeps the pace high , even though there also are some slower moments in the story . It's pointless to recommend this movie or not , since this is one of those movies that everybody already has seen at least once . If you're one of those rare cases that hasn't seen this movie yet ; What are you doing here reading users comments ? Go and watch this movie and be entertained by it . This is a movie that remains good , powerful and entertaining , no matter how often you watch it . It's absolutely perfect !
Still the best Vietnam war movie .	This still is the best and most powerful and gritty Vietnam war movie around . It's a war movie that shocks and confronts not necessarily with its graphic images but more with its psychological elements . It shows what a war can do to common man and how it can make and break characters . So above everything , " Platoon " is really a character movie that tells the story of two different sergeants who clash and a young recruit being in the middle of it all . The movie shows the duality of men and isn't afraid to show the dark side of every person . It makes the movie confronting and effective to watch . While watching this movie it makes a realize that it's a movie that only could had been made by a Vietnam veteran . The small little details such as of the atmosphere and characterize behavior are too detailed and uncompromising to have been written by someone who hasn't been even close to Vietnam . " Platoon " is a sort of autobiography movie by Oliver Stone , who put some his own Vietnam war experiences into this movie . The movie , like basically every Oliver Stone movie , handles controversial subjects and is very straightforward , without really picking any sides . The movie features only 2 or 4 real visual confronting sequences . The movie doesn't need anymore than that to be powerful , or to try and make its point . It lets the psychological elements take of that instead . It makes " Platoon " a movie that doesn't try to impress but nevertheless leaves a powerful and lasting impression through its way of film-making . It also provides the movie with some really powerful sequences , with of course the death of Sgt . Elias Grodin as the most classic and memorable one . I still regard it as the greatest death sequence out of movie history , even though it's completely over-the-top . The movie is mostly carried by the characters that are in it . None of them are really formulaic or predictable and they are being played by some great actors . This movie features some great casting , with lots of actors that later became huge stars , such as Forest Whitaker , John C . McGinley and of course Johnny Depp . Charlie Sheen does a good job at playing the character , trough whose eyes the entire story gets told . But it are Tom Berenger and Willem Dafoe who really form the movie . In a non-formulaic way they represent good and evil . " Platoon " is luckily not only just a psychological powerful movie with great characters but also visually a great movie to watch . The battle sequences are effective and impressive to watch and really give you a sense of how it must have been like over there , as does the entire movie by the way . The cinematography by Robert Richardson is wonderful and the Academy Award winning directing by Oliver Stone is just great . " Platoon " is of course also the movie that got Adagio for Strings eternal fame . The piece of classical music it features prominently the movie its most important sequences . It works powerful and effective , no matter how often it gets overused in the movie . War is hell and this movie really shows that .
When science-fiction meets horror . . .	Every now and then a daring combination has a good and unique movie as a result . " Alien " is one of those movies , along with it's sequel " Aliens " that mixes science-fiction , horror and action . The best thing about the movie is its atmosphere which makes it notable that Ridley Scott is the one that directed this movie . His style might be a bit slow for some but it makes the atmosphere very chilling and mysterious . It's the most atmospheric horror movie ever made also thanks to the chilling musical score by Jerry Goldsmith , good camera work and lightingThe most surprising thing about the movie is the character Ripley played by Sigourney Weaver . She begins as a small character but later in the movie she turns into the main ( heroin ) character . She really is one of the best female characters in movie history and is even better in " Aliens " . The movie is filled with some unforgettable scene's ( the dinner scene is a classic ) and some scene's that will bring you to the edge of your seat even though some of the horror is at times predictable ( splitting up is always asking to get yourself killed ) . The acting is top class , thanks to the directing and some good dialogue . Tom Skerritt , Sigourney Weaver , Veronica Cartwright , Harry Dean Stanton , John Hurt , Ian Holm and Yaphet Kotto are all unforgettable . A must see classic science-fiction / horror movie .
Not just one of the best Bond's but also one of the best action movies of all time .	I absolutely adore this movie . What a comeback for Bond , after the Timothy Dalton Bond's the franchise had been officially declared death by many and no one expected another Bond movie . This movie perfectly sets the mood for the future Bond movies for the 90's and this decade . The action is what makes this movie in a way more of this time . In a way the Bond franchise matured and became a competitor at the box office's again . Still all the ' old ' Bond elements are all present once more in this movie and it still stays loyal to the franchise so many grew up with watching . The villains are the best ever in a Bond movie since " Goldfinger " . Funny because this movie is also the in my opinion the best Bond movie since " Goldfinger " . I think that tells something about how important the Bond villains always are for Bond movies . Sean Bean is a memorable and worthy nemesis for Bond and Alan Cumming is an excellent and fun ' villain ' . But most memorable is Famke Janssen with literally the most deathliest hips to hit the screen . The movie really launched the career for those three actors , which is no coincidence I think . . . Pierce Brosnan simply is Bond , from the moment you first see him . He's got the charms and humor , the two most important elements for the Bond character to me . The movie introduces some nice new characters that would later return in other Bond movies . Judi Dench plays the new M , Joe Don Baker plays the fun character Jack Wade and Robbie Coltrane plays the highly enjoyable ' villain ' Valentin Zukovsky . Izabella Scorupco isn't exactly the most memorable Bond girl or actress but still she is likable in this movie . I now it is criticized a lot but I really like Eric Serra's musical score . I wouldn't had mind him scoring more Bond movie . The pace is action-movie like high and features some extremely good action sequence's . From the spectacular opening to the just as spectacular ending , this movie provides non-stop entertainment , action and a great story that never gets complex but still is compelling and exciting . A typical fun , entertaining , action packed Martin Campbell movie .
Spectacular !	Just like " Citizen Kane " , it's not exactly THE best movie ever made but still a very revolutionary and important one and above all , a real classic ! I think that " North by Northwest " can be compared to an early James Bond movie and can be regarded as one of the most early ' modern ' action movie . Some sequences are really spectacular and are shot and edited in the same way as most action movies are these days . Of course the crop duster sequence is a classic but I like the spectacular finale on Mt . Rushmore even better . The music by Bernard Hermann , is just as Hitchcock's directing ahead of its time . There also is some lovely cinematography by yet again Robert Burks . The story is really exciting and it has all the elements that makes a movie a spectacular adventure to watch . Is there anything wrong with this movie ? In my opinion not . The movie certainly isn't the most exciting or thrilling Hitchcock movie but it might very well be the most entertaining one also thanks to some well scripted humor . Also look out for a young Martin Landau as the henchman Leonard .
The only movie that makes you laugh at the end of the world .	This movie is absolutely brilliant ! It might not be THE best movie ever made but it certainly is one of the most entertaining and fun movies ever made . It isn't even Kubrick's best but it certainly is perhaps his most accessible and entertaining movie . The movie its story and humor are subtle and perfectly makes fun of the whole Cold War situation in the ' 60's . With some subtle dialog Kubrick perfectly makes fun of a very serious and relevant topic . I mean , the story of this movie isn't that unlikely and could had actually really happened . As a matter of fact , it could still happen today . It's frightening but thanks to Kubrick's directing the movie never really becomes serious and remains fun , hilarious and entertaining from beginning till end . It is the only movie that makes you laugh at the end of the world . The actors are also what makes this movie fun to watch . Peter Sellers is nothing short of brilliant in the three different roles that he plays ; Group Captain ( G / C ) Lionel Mandrake / President Merkin Muffley / Dr . Strangelove . But also George C . Scott is comically brilliant in this movie as Gen . ' Buck ' Turgidson and he perhaps plays his very best role . Other actors that stood out were ; Slim Pickens and Peter Bull . This movie also marks James Earl Jones his very first appearance in a movie . This is perhaps the most subtle and ' darkest ' comedies ever made . Everything about it is shear brilliance and even now 40 years later , it hasn't lost any of its power . The movie still looks like it could had been made a couple of months ago . A movie that will never feel outdated or too ' old fashioned ' to watch . In 50 years from now , this movie will be just as good and hilarious , as it is now . Mark my words . The movie is filled with some truly classic long sequences and has countless unforgettable moments and dialog in it . Especially the last sequence , involving Dr Strangelove , is absolutely priceless and unforgettable . Brilliant , brilliant , brilliant !
Brillaintly constructed comedy .	This really is one of my favorite Laurel & Hardy movies . Laurel & Hardy were at their best and prime in the ' 20's and the early ' 30's . Most movies made after that were slightly disappointing . This movie however is a wonderful exception to that . What makes this movie so incredibly good and fun , is the well constructed story . Everything in the movie feels wonderfully connected and consistent . Something that not always was the case in many other Laurel & Hardy movies . They really put some effort in the story this time and the end result pays off . The movie has multiple subplots with many different characters involved but the movie truly feels as a whole . Also the comedy present in the movie is deliciously funny . Of course the boys get into some serious troubles again , this time with several different persons , of who James Finlayson is one of those persons . The situations the boys get into are highly amusing and always a pleasure and fun to watch in this movie . A comedy in which everything works out great and it's better than other Laurel & Hardy movies , thanks to the wonderful constructed story .
One of the best film-noirs I have ever seen .	The movie is a classic in every sense of the word . The best things about film-noirs is always the atmosphere and " Out of the Past " is filled with fantastic atmosphere thanks to good sets , cinematography story and acting . All of these things combined make this movie one of the greatest of its kind . The story is typically film-noir like and is full with some great and unexpected moments and twists . The movie really comes to live thanks to some good actors and their characters . Robert Mitchum is on the roll as Jeff Bailey , aka Jeff Markham and so is Kirk Douglas in one of his first roles . A real classic film noir !
Chilling .	This movie has an extremely realistic feeling and provides a view on a child-murderer and the effect it has on the normal everyday society of Germany in 1930 . It's one of the most chilling movies I have ever seen along with movies like " Psycho " and " Se7en " . The storytelling in this movie is extremely good . It's slow but it perfectly captures the fear and desperate feelings . Because everything in the movie feels so realistic , it gets a chilling atmosphere . This is also thanks to the at times phenomenal camera-work , directing and the child-murderer part that's played by Peter Lorre . In my opinion his character is just as chilling and classic as Hannibal Lecter . Director Fritz Lang already proved his talent with " Metropolis " in 1927 . This is his first movie that also uses sound but he still manages to put in , just as many visual style and groundbreaking moments in this movie , as he did in his early silent movie works . This is one of the very first film-noir's ever created and this movie helped to set the standards for later movies in the same genre . Truly a milestone in movie history . The directing is really top-class and so is the cinematography from Fritz Arno Wagner who is also known for working on the classic German expressionist horror masterpiece " Nosferatu , eine Symphonie des Grauens " . The combination of both provide some highly original and memorable scene's . The acting is silly over-the-top at times as often was still the case in German movies from the ' 30's . It's also obvious that German isn't Peter Lorre's native language . His German is just a bit off at times . A classic powerful , chilling , atmospheric , stylish masterpiece that I can whole heartedly recommend to everyone .
The drama of two sisters in the midst of the French revolution .	Basiscly in essence this movie is a very original and pleasant take on the French revolution , when the monarchy got replaced by the republic . The story is told through the viewpoint of two sister , of which one is also blind , who get separated , during the events that lead up to the eventual French revolution and its aftermath . It's a great and original way to tell the story , without ever becoming too ' historical ' , with that I'm meaning that it doesn't turn into a dull history-class lesson . It's an amazing looking and crafted costume drama that above all is also really well told . Leave it up to D . W . Griffith to tell a grand epic story . Of course the movie is mostly melodramatic , like basically every other genre movie from the same time period . And melodramatic or not , the movie and its emotions work really well . It makes this a really effective movie to watch , though it's definitely not only just drama but the movie in its overall style is quite light ( especially compared to other D . W . Griffith movies ) and even leaves room for plenty of humor , despite it's heavy and dramatic undertone . D . W . Griffith movies have always contained humor , mostly of the small and subtle sort , that often worked refreshing from its more heavy and dramatic elements . This movie is no exception and even has a comical relief in it , in the form of Creighton Hale , as the servant Chevalier de Vaudrey . The movie actually features quite a lot slapstick humor , especially in its second halve . It proofs that D . W . Griffith had a great sense for timing . The movie is filled with many characters and also features many developing plot lines . The movie is however definitely not as tiresome and overlong as with other D . W . Griffith movies sometimes is the case . This movie knows to keep your interested because of its fantastic story and the well it's told and made to look in the eventual end movie . The movie is also not as hard to follow as with many other silent movies often is the case . I think this is also due to the more ' light ' way of storytelling . It's obvious that the movie makers wanted to entertain its viewers . The many characters are being played by some fine actors , although of course their performances are definitely over-the-top all by todays standards . The real life sisters Lillian and Dorothy Gish play also the two sisters in this movie , in their last movie role together . Lillian is of course the best known of the two , definitely thanks to D . W . Griffith's other movies but Dorothy in this movie shows that she is just as talented . The two also have a really great chemistry together on the screen which definitely helps the movie and its story . Joseph Schildkraut plays a great . pretty looking , noble and heroic character . But especially great in this movie are the ' villains ' . The movie has a wide variety of villainous characters , from many different classes . The aristocratic villains are great , mainly also because of their looks and style of acting but also the characters from the lower classes such as Jacques-Forget-Not and the vile Mother Frochard are great . All of the characters are really powerful and the movie manages to give each of them a defining personality . The movie gives a good and detailed look into the Parisian aristocratic lifestyle of the 18th century . It also perfectly explains how and why the French revolution occurred , without ever loosing its main focus on the dramatic story lines of the two sisters , who in essence don't really have anything to do with the revolution . They're just at the wrong place and the wrong time with the wrong people . The French revolution merely serves as a backdrop for the movie . The movie has a great look , with impressive looking sets and especially costumes . You can definitely describe this movie as a costume-drama in my opinion . There also are some great mass sequences and battles , all of course part of the D . W . Griffith trademark style of film-making . The race against the clock sort of ending is totally fantastic . It's tense and extremely well build up and executed . The eventual end of the movie is also really great , in which everything reach a satisfying conclusion . It suits the genre and especially this movie , really well . The movie left me with a great happy feeling and the overall movie made a big impression on me . Not even D . W . Griffith's best ( that really says something about his other movies ! ) but certainly his most pleasant to watch - and entertaining one .
The most influential and refreshing science-fiction movie since " Star Wars " .	" The Matrix " has redefined the science-fiction genre . Previous to this movie , most science-fiction movies consisted out of scene's in space with spacecrafts , aliens , all set in a futuristic world . Most movies that tried to be different from this , mostly failed . " The Matrix " does however does not fail and it redefined the science-fiction genre and has taken it to a whole different and more seriously taken level of movie-making . The movie has inspired many different movies ever since and showed that science-fiction and action elements are a great and spectacular combination . From that perspective " The Matrix " is one of the most important movies for film-making , from the ' 90's . This is a superb piece of movie-making . The Wachowski ' brothers ' were obviously inspired by the Japanese anime style and they transform that style spectacularly into a life-action movie . Because of the style and flair of the movie , it makes the action look spectacular and even also look as something totally new . The fantastic bullet-time effects were something unseen before and are already alone reason enough why this movie is already almost a classic and certainly unforgettable movie . The style and new effects used in the movie make this movie to be also a refreshing one . It's an extremely original movie , both story-wise and technique-wise . Especially the action is what truly makes this movie a success . The fight and action sequences are beautifully choreographed . It also all is beautifully shot by cinematographer Bill Pope , who uses some fantastic lighting and camera-angles at times . The musical score from Don Davis is also quite good . Also the costumes and settings most certainly do not disappoint . The special effects are spectacular and also something totally new at times . The cast is not the strongest element of the movie . Keanu Reeves is fairly good as the main character but he lacks some charisma at times . Some goes for Carrie-Anne Moss to be honest . Actors who do not disappoint are Laurence Fishburne , Joe Pantoliano and the fantastic Hugo Weaving in his real big breakthrough role . He is an excellent ' villain ' because of his look and way of acting . But what really makes and shapes the movie is its story . Yes , it's complex and believe , not everything makes sense or is explained in a satisfying way but it at least is something totally original and imaginative . The story really shapes the movie and its style and make the action and science-fiction elements of the movie work fantastically together . The movie is great non-stop spectacular action entertaining that doesn't even get slow or boring even when nothing is really happening . This is mainly due to the imaginative powerful story of the movie . If you don't understand and / or get the story the first time , just watch it a second or third time . The movie is worth it . The movie uses multiple layers , symbolism and elements from religions and other styles of movie-making . It makes you discover more new things , every time you watch the movie . One of the most original and influential movies from the ' 90's and therefor also an absolute must-see !
Such a beautiful and realistic made movie .	all of the places and rooms still existed at the time and were basically still in the same state as 10 years before , during the actual events . It of course helps to give the movie a certain bit of extra and adds to the realism of it all . Most of the people in this movie actually participated during the real revolution , including revolutionist ' hero ' Nikolai Podvoisky . What I like about the movie is that it's completely made in documentary style . It doesn't really focuses or any main character , or tries to tell a story in a cinematic scripted way , even though it obviously dramatizes and romanticize elements , such as the storming of the Winter Palace . Some sequences really look as if they were actually shot in 1917 , during the actual events . No wonder that some sequences from this movie are often used in real documentaries about the Russian revolution . Still of course the movie also features Communist propaganda in it . After all , this movie was made in honor of the 10th anniversary date of the Russian October revolution . In its core it's a pretty patriotic movie to watch but how could you mind if it's done in such a beautiful way . Stalin himself also closely kept an eye on the production of this movie and actually ordered to remove most of the sequences featuring old comrade but later turned ' enemy ' Leon Trotsky . It's funny how only the sequences that make Trotsky look ' bad ' and weak were kept into the movie . Some of the camera-work is totally amazing ! The movie features some beautiful and innovative compositions , also often with the purpose of symbolism . The fast editing is also present once more and truly helps to tell the story in this case . The directing , camera-work and editing are the reason that this movie works out so fantastically and is an absolute delight to watch . The mass-sequences , as you would expect from an Eisenstein movie , are grand and spectacular looking . Literly thousands of extras were used for this movie , with of course as the ultimate highlight the storming of the Winter Palace at the end . Really one of Eisenstein's best work and great if you want to learn about the Russian October revolution and the events leading up to it in 102 minutes , as long as you're also capable of watching past the propaganda elements of the movie .
Wow , what fun !	This isn't just the best of " The Hire " series of shorts , it also is one of the best and certainly most fun movies that I have seen in a while ! I think I had a smile on my face throughout the entire movie . It was incredible fun and had some great dialog and hilarious moments . Especially the ending with Marilyn Manson was extremely funny . I really love Tony Scott now , after seeing this short . I already liked his recent visual style and the way of editing in his movie but this really has got to be his best visual work , I love it ! It's very cool and comparable to the style in his movies " Spy Game " and " Man on Fire " . I'm actually excited in seeing his next movie " Domino " now , before seeing this movie I didn't had really that much interest in seeing it . Man , Gary Oldman plays one crazy ugly devil ! I'm a big fan of Oldman and I absolutely loved him in this . Next to " True Romance " ( also directed by Tony Scott by the way ) , this is my favorite role of his . Other parts are played by James Brown who extremely funny plays himself and the always very cool Danny Trejo . Extremely fun and likable to watch !
Classic ! And may I say best prison movie ever ?	There are many who regard " The Shawshank Redemption " as the ultimate prison movie . I seriously don't . In terms of atmosphere and realism , this is a more superior movie . Also when you watch this movie it becomes obvious to you how incredibly much Stephen King ' copied ' ( and not even subtly , he basically copied entire characters and events ) from this movie for the both of his novels that are set in prisons ; " The Shawshank Redemption " and to a smaller extend " The Green Mile " . Yes of course " The Shawshank Redemption " has a totally brilliant story and some top-class acting but I still see " Escape from Alcatraz " as a better movie . The story is more believable which add to the realism of the movie . " The Shawshank Redemption " is a way more over-dramatized movie if you like , while " Escape from Alcatraz " is just simply realistic and honest with its story . Yes the story of this movie might be told and filmed in a slow way but the movie is only 112 minutes long , so this shouldn't be a serious complaint . The movie is never dragging and not 1 minute shorter or longer than was needed . It should be so that everyone who is about to see or has seen " The Shawshank Redemption " should also watch " Escape from Alcatraz " and then ask yourself this : What does " The Shawsank Redemption " has got that this movie hasn't and what is that makes it that " The Shawshank Redemption " is so incredibly high in the IMDb top250 while " Escape from Alcatraz " isn't even in that same top250 . For the record , I like " The Shawshank Redemption " very much as a movie and even though I think ( and also thought so before seeing this movie ) that it is a bit of an overrated movie , I would probably still rate it an . But enough about " The Shawshank Redemption " , let's talk about the quality of this movie . What makes " Escape from Alcatraz " an absolute classic is the atmosphere and like I said before the realism of the characters , the events and the story in general . It was also great to see Clint Eastwood in this role . Before this movie he mostly only played just the hero's in westerns like " Buono , il brutto , il cattivo , Il " , " Hang ' Em High " and " The Outlaw Josey Wales " and in WW II movies like " Kelly's Heroes " and " Where Eagles Dare " or as super cop Harry Callahan in " Dirty Harry " . I think this is more a movie in which Clint shows his acting abilities . Also I enjoyed seeing Patrick McGoohan , to be fair I only saw him in three movies before this : " Braveheart " his small role in " A Time to Kill " and the Columbo movie " Columbo : Ashes to Ashes " . But despite that fact that I only saw him a small amount of roles , I already adored him as an actor . He was also great in this movie and wow , he looked so incredibly young compared to the movies I had seen him in . In my opinion THE ultimate prison movie and an absolute classic , due to its atmosphere and realism .
One of the great biopics .	" Shine " is one of the great movies of the ' 90's , that became an unexpected success in 1996 and was the movie that earned Geoffrey Rush his as of yet only Oscar win and got the movie 6 more Oscar nominations , including best director and best picture . The movie shows how Australian born David Helfgott gets formed and influenced in his early life by his demanding and abusive father ( wonderfuly played by Armin Mueller-Stahl ) , who is in strict control of the family . He asks a lot from the already very unstable David and influences ever step in his life , probably also to make up for his own shortcomings in life . He's an unpredictable character with two faces and you can really feel the fear he puts in the family and David in particular . Things go worse and worse mentally for David as he grows up and eventually goes to study in England at the Royal College of Music . He has a breakdown which for once and for all definitely labels him as a psychotic man . His personality could definitely been described as crazy . He gets perfectly and beautifully portrayed by Geoffrey Rush , who truly deserved the Oscar he received for his role . But in fact he is only in the movie for perhaps halve the running time . For " Shine " uses lots of flashbacks about Helfgott's early life and as a young adult , when he is being played by different actors . One of those actors is the know very well known Noah Taylor , who also plays the part fine . Also really impressive is Armin Mueller-Stahl . He doesn't usually have very big parts in English spoken movies but in this movie he plays one of his bigger and more interesting roles . It's a true memorable performance from him and he also truly deserved his Oscar nomination for this movie . I keep thinking it's a great shame he got discovered so late by the big-money movie industry , since he is already close to 80 by now , which should mean that his biggest and greatest roles should already be behind him by now . But who knows , some actors just go on forever , till a very old age . Take for instance John Gielgud , who also stars in this movie . At the time he was already well over 90 years old and he would continue to play on in many more great and big productions , till his death in 2000 . Some actors are just truly born as actors . It simply is in their blood and they can't stop playing . Moments in Helfgott's life are never portrayed too long but also never too short . This means that the story always comes right to the point and doesn't dance around it . The movie becomes very effective because of this and on top of that gets presented with a good steady pace . It's a reason why this movie is really one of the better autobiographic movies ever made . It's a really great directed and told movie , from Scott Hicks . But of course like every good biopic , the movie doesn't only presents facts and some things are altered , in order to enhance the movie and its story or characters . For instance right after this movie the real Helfgott became a true full God , while in all honesty David Helfgott is a great piano player but just not the genius one as portrayed in this movie . It's kind of like the piano man . The mysterious mute man who was found in Kent England in 2005 . It was said he was a brilliant piano player , while in fact he just simply knew how to play a piano well but was by no means a great or professional player . Just like David Helfgott , it are just the unusual circumstances and character personalities that makes people say they are geniuses , rather than it's an objective reflection of their actual qualities . But like I said , this isn't anything unusual to do for a biopic , to play around a little with the facts and it certainly is no objection when it actually enhances the movie . " Shine " truly benefits from its approach and story . I also enjoyed David Hirschfelder nice little musical score ( also Oscar-nominated ) . Of course the movie also benefits from it's classical compositions that are being featured . It's of course a very musical movie , since it's about the life of a musician but you really don't need a classic musical lover to enjoy or to appreciate this movie though . The movie ends quite abrupt and perhaps not satisfying enough but this is of course simply due to the fact that David Helfgot is still alive and active today . Who knows , perhaps they could had better waited for another 30 years to come up with a movie about his life , for who knows what more strange and beautiful moments his life shall know . Perhaps it's not the most stylish or greatest made movie but the combination of the interesting unique story , pace and main character ( and of course Geoffrey Rush his performance of him ) are what makes this movie such a basically flawless ( you simply just forgive the movie for its flaws and shortcomings while you're watching it ) and captivating one to watch .
The ultimate cop movie .	My favorite movie of all time " A Clockwork Orange " lost at the best picture Acadamy Award ceremony against this movie . However looking at this movie I can't say that it's undeserved , for " The French Connection " truly is one of the best movies from at least the seventies and maybe of all time . It most certainly is the best cop movie ever made , in my opinion ! The movie has a perfect gritty and realistic kind of atmosphere and an unmistakably seventies feeling . I love it ! The seventies truly were the golden age of film making and they simply don't make movies like this anymore . The characters are perfectly realistic and director William Friedkin and the actors most certainly don't attempt to portray them as being heroic or ' good cops ' . Gene Hackman really in a way is an anti-hero and he seems to be born to play ' Popeye ' Doyle , who by now truly has grown into a classic movie character . Roy Scheider also is really great as his partner ' Cloudy ' Russo , even though his character at times disappears too long out of the story . A shame because he and Hackman were a perfect screen duo . Both got an Oscar nomination but only Hackman got to take the statue home with him . The movie also won Oscar's for best director , best film editing , best picture and best writing , screenplay based on material from another medium and got nominated for three more . The movie might have a slow pace by today's standards but the wonderful story and acting really make up for this , " The French Connection " has stand the test of time well . The slow pace even makes the famous car chase scene even more energetic and thrilling enough to make your adrenaline run . Truly in my opinion , the ultimate cop movie !
Great movie with a great story !	Unlike some other horror movies , the creators actually spend lots of time and effort on the story development . " The Omen " is not really a scary movie . There isn't really any gore and / or monsters , it has a great and unique story instead that makes the movie an unique and original one with a nice ending . Some of the scene's are impressive and unforgettable . The music by Jerry Goldsmith might very well be one of the best horror scores till date . All of those elements help to create a good horror atmosphere without any of the cliched horror elements . The story is made believable by some good acting performances , especially by Gregory Peck of course who always is a pleasure to watch in a movie . Top class classic horror movie without any flaws .
A brilliant movie about a not so brilliant man .	When you see an Indian organist playing in a meat-house with the meat still cooling in it , while a transvestite is performing a belly dance without his teeth and is making Bela Lugosi swing , you know it . . . you're watching a Tim Burton movie . The movie brilliantly tells the story about Edward D . Wood Jr . widely know these days as the worst movie director of all time . It tells the story with lot's of humor but it never gets disrespectful , or makes fun of Wood . Instead you actually will gain lot's of respect for his passion and his will power to make just that one movie that he would always be remembered for . The story of Edward D . Wood Jr . is tragic but the movie never becomes sad . It is the perfect homage and tribute to this unfortunate director . You can see by watching this movie that Tim Burton in a way really admires Wood's life and his work . We get to see Wood as a filmmaker and as an individual . We get to know his weird lifestyle and his eccentric famous friendsOK the movie might no be a completely fair biography about Wood . It takes lot's of liberties with telling the story and it only shows the bright days of Wood's life but as movie it works really well and is next to " Edward Sciccorhands " Burton's best movie till date , truly a masterpiece ! The cast is terrific . Johnn Depp in a Tim Burton movie is always jackpot . Sarah Jessica Parker impressed me and Martin Landau truly is perfect as Bela Lugosi . Bill Murray does what he can best , acting crazy ! The Danny Elfman like music by Howard Shore is really great and also great as an homage to the 50's horror soundtracks . The movie works both as a comedy and as a drama . It knows to find the perfect balance but mainly still the movie is just extremely fun to watch . The movie really has tons of laughs and is filled with some incredible crazy character's but like I said before , it never becomes disrespectful to anyone . I must say that " Ed Wood " really changed my life . It got me interested in not just only Ed Wood movies but 50's horror movies in general . It also made me a big fan of the famous Hammer film's . A brilliant , strange , tragic , fun homage to the man who will always be remembered as the worst director of all time .
The rise and fall of fascism and Nazism , seen through the eyes of a boy who refuses to grow .	I always like it when a movie shows things from a new and original point of view . This time we get to see WW II through the eyes of the ' normal ' German citizens . I however would not classify " Die Blechtrommel " as a war movie but more is a dramatic character study about an unusual boy with unusual powers in an unusual time . It shows the bad and disgusting side of human beings . Young Oskar is disgusted with the grown up world around him . Because of this he refuses to grow any bigger . The entire movie we get to see the world trough the naive eyes of the main character Oskar . We learn and get to understand why he is disgusted about things and as the movie progresses we also get to see the rise - and eventually fall of the German Third Reich . Unique is certainly the right word to describe this movie . It's a one of a kind movie that provides us a most unusual and original look upon things . The movie is filled with some wonderfully constructed and unique sequences . Some are very memorable and are one of the many reasons why the movie is an unforgettable one to watch . It's impossible to describe the many unforgettable and powerful moments present in the movie . It's truly something you have to experience for yourself . The storytelling is spot-on and real subtle at times . It all is beautifully directed by Volker Schlöndorff . Young Oskar is perfectly portrayed by David Bennent . This is a very heavy role for a young boy like him but he never made a mistake , or overdid anything . The rest of the supporting cast is also very good . The characters are well constructed throughout the story and despite the many characters that are introduced , we never loose track of the story and the movie remain fascinating and powerful to watch throughout its entire ( long ) running time . The nice little and underrated musical score of the movie was is composed by the legendary Maurice Jarre . Wonderfully unique Oscar-winning drama , that in my opinion is an absolute must-see .
Intense !	Next to " Star Wars : Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back " and " The Godfather Part II " the best sequel ever made ! Take the tension from " Alien " and add to that some serious kick ass marines , the result is " Aliens " . And my God , what a fine movie this ! In some ways it's even more scary then " Alien " , the tension is build up perfectly ! The action is simply awesome . Letting marines fight the aliens was one of the best ideas in movie history . The characters are terrific . The marines are very cool characters and are portrayed brilliantly by the actors of course especially by Michael Biehn and Bill Paxton as the hyperactive but entertaining Pvt . Hudson . Sigourney Weaver is a great leading lady , Ripley is truly one of the strongest female characters of all time . I also liked Paul Reiser a lot in this one and let's not forget to mention Lance Henriksen as the android Bishop . James Horner delivers his masterpiece with the soundtrack . It's too bad it was cut in criminally . The music suits the movie perfectly . The movie is a lot of things at the same time : Scary , action packed , tense , funny and entertaining . The combination of everything is perfect . It's too bad that some of the visual effects are heavily outdated these days but it doesn't ruin the movie by far . The aliens on the other hand look better then ever , especially the queen is a great piece of work . And so are the costumes and weapons . There isn't much more I can say about this movie . All I can say is ; see this movie now ! Or if you have seen it before ; watch it again ! Is there anything I don't like about this movie ? No , it's nothing short of perfect and it is one of my favorite movies of all time .
Among the greatest of all time .	There were some anti-war movies before this one but none of them hit the mark - and made its point so well such as this one . It's still one of most powerful movies ever made , out of any genre or time period . And not just that , the movie is also really among the best ever made . The movie concentrates on a group of German soldiers during WW I , of which most of them are still just only school kids in the beginning . First we see how the very young boys are being reprogrammed as soldiers . Then we see how they all are slowly going crazy , due to the madness of war . After that the movie shows the aftereffects of war , on those who fought in it . From the hospital till their leave back home , this movie shows and tells it all . We further more see them dealing with all kinds of problems ; the lack of food , rats , the death and see them discuss the point of war . Or like Paul Bäumer sums up in the movie ; " We live in the trenches out there . We fight . We try not to be killed , but sometimes we are . That's all . " It's not hard to see that this movie influenced many other later war / anti-war movies , even till this present day , with " Full Metal Jacket " and " Starship Troopers " as the most obvious and best known examples . For its time period this was also a very graphic movie , although no way people will now be shocked by any of the ' gore ' within this movie . Nevertheless the movie its violence and disturbing moments still haven't lost any of its power . This is also thanks to the great build-up directing by Lewis Milestone . He knows how to create the right certain tension and the atmosphere that goes with it . He also had a real eye for detail , especially of course during the battle sequences . Because of its many little details the movie also becomes a very realistic one . The movie features some great looking and also at times innovating The camera positions and angles , as well as the good fast editing . It makes this a technical fantastic movie to watch . Obviously none of the actors are among the greatest of their time but the characters are all nevertheless great , since they are very humane and realistic and each has their own strong identity . A movie that you HAVE to see at least once in your lifetime .
Now that's more like it !	There are lots of cannibal movies over the years and they are all equally gory and provocative but yet also ridicules because of their overwritten silly stories with silly plot-lines and characters . This really is not the case " Cannibal Holocaust " , since it chooses an effective and realistic approach by partly telling the entire movie in documentary style . It was also one of the reasons why many people at the time and still believe that this is a snuff movie , with real people getting killed in it . It still makes this one of the most controversial films ever made , even to this date . In its genre , this was a quite modern movie at its time . The approach was new to people and it surprised them . Director Ruggero Deodato got almost prosecuted in Italy for slaying real people in front of the camera and the movie was also banned in several countries for graphic gore , sexual violence , and for the genuine slaying of six animals featured in the film . I believe it's even banned in some countries till this date . At least I really wouldn't be surprised if it was . It's quite hard now to believe that people at time thought that the events in this movie were all real . I mean , the acting is so bad and the blood is typically early ' 80's fake reddish looking and all sequences are all too obviously staged , filmed and cut . But then again there will be always people who keep believing these sort of things . Remember at the time of " The Blair Witch Project " , in 1999 , many people thought that one was real as well . The whole controversy , that is even now still surrounding this movie , makes it part of its charisma and cult status . This alone is for many people reason to watch it . But really this movie is so much more than . Intentionally or not ( opinios differ on it ) the movie also works great as a social commentary on various aspects of modern civilization and sensationalism . Themes in this movie still apply today , which makes this movie just as powerful effective and relevant as almost 30 years ago . Especially the plot line with the producers wanting to release the shot documentary , to meet the public's demands and needs still applies and would be relevant today . People always have had an hunger for real violence , war and other things like that on TV . TV stations try to exploit this as best as possible , with shows such as " Cops " and " The Jerry Springer Show " . But also on the regular every day news , with more images of war areas and natural disasters and such coming on , day in , day out . even though you really don't want to see these things , you subconsciously still think and say ; why doesn't the camera move in any closer ? Why don't they show more of what happened ? Etcetera . The human curiosity and fascination for the unknown is simply too big to feed . For instance nobody wanted to see Nick Berg being decapitated an Islamic terror group in Iraq but still thousands , if not millions of people watched the video online , which proofs my point . Yes , this movie is an extremely graphic and gory one . Not only because of the human slaying and cannibalism in the movie but also , if not more , because of the REAL animal killings in it . The turtle sequences is already legendary . For those who've always been interested in how the insides of an turtle look like ; watch this movie ! Also shocking are the many sexual abuse - and killing rituals in this movie . Even though I'm no woman , I can still imaging the pain . But also the male crowed will have something shocking thrown at them , involving the one-eyed trouser snake . The movie looks mostly realistic due to its limited resources and restrained budget . Basically halve of the movie is done in documentary style which only adds to this . The camera-work is extremely effective . Suggestive camera-work often works more effective than cutting back and forth between different camera-angles . Also of course the jungle and natives portrayed in this movie adds to the claustrophobic and more horror kind of atmosphere . The movie has such a great symphonic theme ! Something you really wouldn't expect from a movie like this and it seems out of place but yet perfectly suits the images on screen . Italian horror scores and scores in general are often under-appreciated , simply because of the fact that they aren't really widely known and released . Works great as a fascinating and extremely gory cannibalism movie but perhaps works ever more striking as a social commentary , which still applies today .
Way more than just a sport movie .	This is easily the best sport movie ever made but the movie is way more than a boxing movie . It's also one of the best drama-movies I have ever seen . Reason why " Rocky " is a classic is of Sylvester Stallone . Believe it or not , he really deserved that Oscar nomination for best actor . Why ? Because he simply IS Rocky . He plays the character so well with so much passion that he can be regarded as one of the best and most memorable movie characters in movie history . The movie is filled with strong solid character , I especially love how the unusual friendship between Rocky and Paulie is portrayed . Talia Shire is also very impressive as shy young woman . The love-story between her and Rocky is done very well and in a believable way . The movie its main focus is on the drama and only the last 30 minutes of the movie really focuses on the boxing . So really , you don't have to be a boxing fan to like this movie , this movie should be enjoyable and unforgettable for everybody . The story is told in a good slow pace and it pays attention to the character's emotions and struggles . The story of ' underdog ' has been much copied ever since in many movies and in many different variations but nothing has ever came close to " Rocky " ' s level . The music by Bill Conti is also of course unforgettable and is also something that brings the movie to the next level . Even though the movie is mainly a drama , the best scene's are still the boxing sequence's . They are filmed very well and are very spectacular to watch time after time . You'll simply never get tired of those scene's ! In my opinion a real classic !
Original movie-making at its very best .	Every now and then , an original concepts gets turned into an highly original movie . " Memento " is a fine example of original movie-making at its very best . It's impossible to fully describe what this movie is about . Best thing is to watch this movie with a clear head in order to follow the movie . But even then some parts of the movie remain confusing . Because of this " Memento " is a perfect movie to watch multiple times , every time you will discover a new fact or things like that . The story is told beautifully and highly original with flashbacks and jumps in time . Basically the whole same story is told over and over again but every time you get to know a little bit of more information . Sounds confusing doesn't it ? Well , don't say I didn't warned you . . . Christopher Nolan provides this movie with a brilliantly suiting visual style and directs the movie with lots of flair and pace . Truly a good young director of which we will hear way more in the near future . He also already made real fame by the ' casual ' movie viewer by directing the stylish blockbuster hit " Batman Begins " . Not only is he a great director , he also is a great writer . The acting in the movie is really solid . Guy Pearce is a great leading man and he is supported by some wonderful actors in the supporting cast : Carrie-Anne Moss , Joe Pantoliano . Because that the movie and its story are so original you never know what is going to happen next . It's a typical independent movie , without any clichés or other distracting elements . Yet the movie is more accessible then it sounds . Every person should be able to appreciate this movie and be absolutely captivated by it . An unique movie experience that is highly recommendable to everyone !
Pure movie making at its very best .	This is pure movie making at its very best . The non-linear storytelling works perfect for the movie . The story is difficult to describe , also due to the fact that not everything is told chronological . The movie sounds difficult but it never becomes confusing . Everything is making sense and connected brilliantly to each other . The movie has three main characters played by ; Sean Penn , Noami Watts and Benicio Del Toro . Each character has an own storyline that are all in one way or another connected to each other . The movie is brilliantly put together and are once more proof of it that all you need to make a brilliant movie is a brilliant story . But it's not just only the story that is brilliant in this movie , so are the actors . Mainly Noami Watts and Benicio Del Toro are superb and chilling in their roles . Both were also nominated for an Oscar for their roles in this movie . Also keep an eye on Eddie Marsan he is a great new rising star and has already played in some great productions and has some more great production in the pipeline . All of the characters feel very warm and realistic . They're all like normal everyday persons , until one event chances all their lives differently and they are bound to do things that they normally wouldn't . " 21 Grams " is a powerful , confronting , gritty , realistic movie . Director Alejandro González Iñárritu makes with this movie a wonderful impression . If he continues to make movies like this , he'll grow into becoming one of the best directors in the business , at the moment .
So beautiful that it almost makes me cry !	After a slightly disappointing but still good Episode I George Lucas strikes back in a way I couldn't possibly had imagined ! Same as all the Star wars movies , this film is full with unforgettable brilliant characters and amazing events . The action is simply superb and something you've never seen before . The actors seem better then the ones from TPM . Natalie Portman ( Padmé ) and Ewan McGregor ( Obi-Wan Kenobi ) seems to feel more comfortable in this one with as a result that the give a way better performance as they did in TPM . Hayden Christensen ( Anakin Skywalker ) totally blew me away ! All I expected from him was to be just a pretty boy that would give a very poor performance . But boy was I wrong , he was simply brilliant and he really IS Darth Vader in the way he walks , the way he moves and the way he looks . Ian McDiarmid ( Palpatine / Darth Sidious ) and Christopher Lee ( Count Dooku / Darth Tyranus ) were also brilliant ( as always ) However the dialog was at some points extremely cheesy ( although not as bad as most people try to make you believe ) . Please remember people that it was the dialog that was poor and NOT the acting skills of the incredible cast . The movie starts of really fast and keeps that quick pace until the very last minute . Visually the movie looks wonderful and the CGI characters and environment look better then ever . The movie made my heart pound at least 2 times faster then normal from about the Jango VS . Obi-Wan fight till the very last seconds . And even better , it almost made me cry at the moments when Yoda and the clones come to save the day and the clone wars begin but mainly at the end when the clones are marching and are getting ready to depart and you hear the Imperial March playing for the first time while Palpatine and some other senators are overlooking the event . I can't help it but EVERY time I just feel like crying , not because of how sad and exciting it is but because of how beautiful it is . Its magnificent and really gives me this wonderful feeling inside . See this movie at least once before you pass judgment on it , even if you're not a Star wars fan . It's entertaining and thrilling till the last minutes and already only worth watching because of the brilliant last 30 minutes and the Yoda VS . Dooku fight . The force is strong in this one !
Fans will love it . . . most ' casual ' viewers won't .	Let me start of by saying that I can understand why one would hate this movie . If you're not really familiar with the five other Star Wars movies and franchise , there won't be an awful lot for you to enjoy in this movie . And don't even think about seeing this movie if you haven't seen Episode I and II yet ! This movie literally is the centerpiece of the saga and ties up brilliantly the loose ends between the original and prequel trilogy and answered more questions than I expect . This is also why fans of Star Wars will absolutely love this movie , only they will be fully able to appreciate all of the moments in the movie , such as the transition from Palpatine to Sidious , the extermination of the Jedi , the death of Padmé , the birth of the twins etc . Is there than absolutely nothing to enjoy for the just more casual viewer ? Of course there is ! Visually the movie looks splendid and the special effects are by far the best ever featured in a Star Wars movie . Everyone should be able to appreciate the immensely large battles and countless lightsaber duels . So seriously , there still is plenty to enjoy for those who don't regard themselves as being big Star Wars fans . Basically the plot is already well know to everyone , basically because of the reason that this is the centerpiece of the saga , so you already know what MUST happen in order to let this movie and " Star Wars : Episode IV - A New Hope " flow perfectly into each other . We know Anakin becomes Darth Vader and that Palpatine reveals himself as being in fact Darth Sidious . We know that Yoda moves to Dagobah and Obi-Wan to Tatooine and that baby Luke will be delivered to his aunt Beru and uncle Owen . There are several other things like this that simply MUST happen in order to make the saga make sense . So in a way the story is very predictable ( even though there are more than enough surprising moments in the movie ) but still Lucas manages to bring the story in a original , emotional and intriguing way . He delivered the story wholly better than I could ever expected to . And seriously give Ian McDiarmid an Oscar for this ! Without any problems he perfectly reprises his role as the emperor in the same way as he did back in 1983 during " Star Wars : Episode VI - Return of the Jedi " . He truly was one of the elements in the movie that reminded me of the original trilogy . There is no way that Ian McDiarmid could ever surpass his performance in this movie . Hayden Christensen and Natalie Portman both perfectly reprised their roles and they were actually great as a screen-couple in this one . However don't expect big roles for Natalie Portman and the other good guys and gals . This movie really is one about the bad guys . The movie's main focus is on Anakin / Darth Vader and Palpatine / the emperor / Darth Sidious . This really is their movie ! This movie really is a dark one and there isn't even a whole lot of room for some typical relieving Star Wars humor . C-3PO delivers a few one liners and R2-D2's actions are once more priceless but that's about the only fun moments you'll find in this movie . The movie is really mostly a dramatic and heavy one and let me tell you that this movie got a PG-13 rating for a very good reason . Some of the scene's are quite heavy , even though it never gets really graphic . The emotions in this movie a really powerful and let me tell you that the whole ' Order-66 ' thing in the movie is really one of the most powerful and emotional moving scene's in all of the Star Wars movies and recent movies in general . Remember the most excellent ending from " The Godfather Part III " ? The ' oder-66 ' scene's really reminded me of those but they are even more powerful in this movie , the music , the images , it all works so perfectly powerful and emotional , especially when Ki-Adi Mundi gets killed , so extremely powerful ! The movie is not just only drama and emotions it also is a extremely action packed one , perhaps the most action packed of all the Star Wars movies . The movie begins with an immensely large space battle and features some large ( but short ) ground battles and seriously countless lightsaber battles . Overall the pace during the movie is extremely hight and even though the movie is quite long for a Star Wars movie ( 140 minutes ) I wouldn't had minded it being 30 minutes longer , because there are still some things that are wrapped up a bit too quickly during the movie . Some of the characters are not handled in the best way . The C-3PO scene's feel like an obligation , the Tarkin cameo was a bit well , odd and general Grievous is a cool looking new villain but he doesn't add really much to the already large database of Star Wars villains . But most bad choice was to put Chewbacca in this movie . OK I can understand that the Wookiees were needed in the story and a bit as an homage to the original trilogy but seriously Chewbacca should had been left alone . His character adds nothing in this movie and his character introduction in " Star Wars : Episode IV - A New Hope " was already perfect . So why bother George ? Still the movie has far more pluses than negative things . The questions that are answered in this movie are extremely satisfying and George Lucas made the story and movie work way better than I could have ever wished for . The transition from Palpatine to Sidious , Anakin to Vader , the death of the Jedi , the 3PO memory wipe ( that scene was priceless ! ) . It all was handled ' beautifuly ' and made this movie for me an unforgettable experience . The perfect centerpiece for the greatest movie saga of all time !
An individual's fight - against loneliness and for justice .	" Taxi Driver " is a beautiful portrayed of an individual who tries to do things his way , in the hectic and dangerous New York of the ' 70's . He already isn't a stable person to begin with ( he's a Vietnam veteran ) but through his loneliness and due to his own personal views and idea's of society and the world , he gets more and more consumed by the rotten society until he feels it is enough and decides to take matters into his own hands . Beauty of the movie is that it gets interpreted by everyone in his or hers own way . Everyone sees some different things in the story and characters . I think this also was what writer Paul Schrader and director Martin Scorsese had in mind , while making this movie . The story takes us into the world of Travis Bickle . We begin to see society through his eyes and we more and more begin to understand the character as the movie progresses . It makes his character not only a understandable one but also a very realistic one . Nothing in this movie is overdone or made to look better or worser than it is in real life . The movie is made extra powerful through the performances of the cast . Robert De Niro is a sensational main lead and the supporting cast is also real great . Some well known actors that were still unknown at the time of this movie make an appearance , such as a very young Jodie Foster , Albert Brooks , Victor Argo and an almost unrecognizable young Harvey Keitel . The entire movie is sensational - and with lots of style directed by Martin Scorsese , who knows how to set the right mood and atmosphere . The simple - but effective and realistic from Michael Chapman and the musical score by Bernard Herrmann ( his last ) also add to the atmosphere . Also of course the fact that New York City serves as the backdrop for this movie , gives the movie a typical dark and gritty feeling and atmosphere . Everything is slowly but powerfully build up in the movie and every sequences plays a significant role . A result of this is that the movie is filled with some unforgettable sequences , of which the famous ' You talking ' to me ? ' sequence is the best known . But also the violent ending leaves a lasting impression . It's still a movie that applies today , after 30 years now . Because lets face it , what exactly has been changed in society compared to 30 years ago and now ? The subject and meaning of the movie could still apply to present day . It makes " Taxi Driver " a timeless and important movie that is a perfect reflection of society and already is worthy of the ' classic'-status . Yet another essential ' 70's viewing .
Amazing movie !	This is easily the best submarine movie ever made ! And even better , it's the best European movie of all time and maybe even one of the best war films . This is one of the only movies that shows the story from the " other side " . You can actually feel along with the Germans and you have sympathy for them . This is because it shows the characters as individual soldiers fighting for their own cost instead as cruel heartless Nazi's . There are even lot's of anti-Nazi feeling expressed by the characters throughout the movie . After 5 minutes you've even forgotten that you're watching a German spoken movie . The characters are all very likable and realistic but the main character of the movie is the submarine itself ! The movie is probably the most claustrophobic one ever made . The claustrophobic feeling is created by the excellent camera work that makes you feel that you're really aboard the submarine and you're one of it's crew members . Further more the atmosphere is very gritty and depressing which does good to the movie . The film is actually really tense and can bring you to the edge of your seat . This is mainly because the story avoids every possible cliché and the ending is one of the most surprising endings of all time . The long scene's were nothing really happens are never boring and are a great addition to the movie because it shows the emotions and the feeling of the crew members really well . Truly amazing !
Dark and disturbing thriller that will stay with you for ever .	Rarely there has been a movie with such a good dark and chilling atmosphere . I even see this movie more as an horror movie than as a thriller because of that . " Se7en " is unique in many ways . The movies mood is already set right from the beginning on . The movie starts dark , intense , chilling and mysterious , a mood that is present throughout the entire movie . It's very depressing to watch and I mean that in a positive way of the meaning of the word . The mood is set by good camera work and lighting , or better said , the lack of it . The music from acclaimed composer Howard Shore also adds to the chilling atmosphere . Unlike many other movies from the same genre , the movie is slow paced and takes it time to develop the characters without falling into some obvious cliche's . The two main characters played by Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are presented as an unlikely police-couple that are different in many ways from each other but in a way that is also what makes them such a great couple . Brad Pitt for once has the opportunity to play more than just the pretty boy and he does it with success . Kevin Spacey truly plays a bone chilling character , almost just as legendary and chilling as Hannibal Lecter . I would very much like to see the two of them put in the same room , just to see who would make it out alive . Further more it was great to see R . Lee Emrey again as the police captain . The movie is filled with some truly gross , sickening and horrifying scene's , this seriously ain't no kids stuff ! The movie has some of the most sickening murders I have ever seen featured in a movie . But it aren't just only the gross scene's that are good , there are also some scene's that are made with lot's of beauty and profession such as the library scene . Dark and chilling movie that you will never forget also thanks to the ending which I will not spoil for you . A real must see .
The " Blade Runner " of the ' 20's .	This truly is a classic masterpiece and honestly one of the best movies ever made . The story is brilliant and the visuals amazing . I have seen the German 147 minutes version of the movie , without subtitles . Yes it's a long watch but it's worth every second of it . Basically only reason why the movie is so long is because they need about ten hand gestures to speak one sentence . It's kind of dreadful to look at first but once you're used to it , it shouldn't trouble you anymore . In many ways this movie can be regarded as the " Blade Runner " of the ' 20's . " Metropolis " is set in a futuristic world that has a same kind of atmosphere as in " Blade Runner " . The mix of ' 20's cars and propeller-planes with futuristic machines , highways , buildings and androids is very unusual but an absolutely awesome thing to look at . The movie was ahead of its time and in some ways also prophetic . The story is absolutely the best thing of the movie . Also the way the story is told and directed by Fritz Lang deserves credit . The story is tense and has quite some symbolism , layers and storyline's but remains always easy to follow . The ending is truly spectacular and tense . The way how spectacular and tense the ending and the entire movie in general was , really surprised me in a positive way . The sets are obviously fake and miniatures at times but they still manage to convince and impress . Further more the movie is filled with some fantastic and very convincing early special effects . Man who also deserves credit is Alfred Abel . Wow , what a great actor he was in this movie . An absolute must see and one of the best movies of all time .
Might very well be the very best full length Laurel & Hardy picture around .	This movie combines everything that made other Laurel & Hardy pictures so great and such a delight to watch ; slapstick humor , crazy situations , well written dialog and a good comedy story . This movie has it all and therefor this movie can truly be regarded as perhaps the most definite Laurel & Hardy picture around . The movie has a classic comedy story . It's very simple and it has been used in many different other variations before and after this movie but it's extremely effective . It's another fine mess the boys get themselves into after they secretly go to a convention of the ' sons of the desert ' in Chicago after fooling their wives , by telling them that they are going to Honolulu to ' cure ' Oliver's faked illness . However when the steam-liner the boys were supposed to be on sinks , the boys can't go home without letting their wives know were they truly had been . In between they also get themselves into some silly humorous trouble , which this time also involves fellow comedian Charley Chase , who was the brother of regular Laurel & Hardy picture director James Parrott . This is not necessarily the movie with the best or most Laurel & Hardy jokes or slapstick moments in it but it's the whole package of the movie that makes this one such a great and enjoyable one that deserves a position among the greatest comedies of all time . It combines all of the best elements out of Laurel & Hardy movies and the end result is an hilarious , easy and pleasant to watch movie , from start till finish , that never loses any of its power . The trouble the boys get themselves into is of course silly and therefor also extremely fun at the same time . It's the sort of simple light hearted comedy we unfortunately see so little anymore in movies these days . All of the silly moments are very well build up and executed in the movie and timed . It also is of course thanks to the talent of Oliver Hardy and Stanley Laurel that all the moments work out so well and effective in a comical way . They make the simple story work out way more effective than you could ever anticipate . The movie is also helped by some well written comical dialog . This movie perhaps has the most dialog gags out of all the Laurel & Hardy pictures that are still around . Even the slower moments of the movie never get boring , thanks to the energetic comedy acting from Stanley Laurel and Oliver Hardy . Laurel & Hardy regular Mae Busch also shows up again as Mrs . Hardy . Busch is always a pleasure to watch in any Laurel & Hardy movie and was a real great comedy talent . All in all , this might very well be the best and most definitive Laurel & Hardy picture ever made , that deserved to be ranked among other comedy classics .
What a cast , what a director , what a movie !	The movie got based on a stage-play by Maxwell Anderson . The movie its story and setting really all have the typical stage-play ingredients but thank goodness the movie does not feel like a stage-play . Yet the movie knows to maintain all of the elements that make a stage-play powerful . The movie has some great written dialog and constructed story and one great cast that knows how to handle it all . What an incredible dream cast this movie has . It's the fourth ( and last ) collaboration of Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall and it even isn't their best but that says something more about their other movies than this one really . It's above all a perfectly cast movie , in which all of the actors suit their roles . Edward G . Robinson is of course great as the big , mean , tough gangster boss . The movie also features other acclaimed actors such as Lionel Barrymore , Claire Trevor and Marc Lawrence . It's a movie that is mostly set at one location ( a small hotel ) , which allowed the writers to use their creativity to make the movie interesting and intriguing to watch and gave the actors as well the opportunity to let their talent shine . The end result is also an extremely well constructed and intriguing movie to watch , from start till finish . Never a slow or dull moment here ! It's of course also thanks to John Huston's professional directing that the movie and its ' simple ' concept works out so well . In my opinion this is not really a film-noir , even though it uses some of its elements . It's more a ' modern ' crime thriller , that lays its emphasis mostly on the dialog and characters , that get deepened out a lot . A fantastic John Huston classic .
Not the best but certainly the most enjoyable of the saga .	For some reason I , out of all the Star Wars movies , always enjoy watching " Star Wars : Episode VI - Return of the Jedi " . Perhaps its because of the humor , the action and battle sequences , or the great new characters introduced in the movie , or the fact that everything ties up brilliantly at the ending , or maybe its due to the bright atmosphere of Endor . The real reason is possibly a combination of all those elements , plus some more . " Star Wars : Episode VI - Return of the Jedi " is a breathtaking action packed and fast paced science-fiction adventure movie . The movie never has a slow or dull moment . Still it also knows how to emote at the right moments . This is necessary because the story of the movie is quite emotional on its own . It's about the redemption of Darth Vader , the temptation of Luke to the Dark Side and about the downfall of the Empire and the Emperor . This are some heavy subjects which are told brilliantly and without ever making the movie go over-the-top . Still perhaps the biggest power of the movie are in its character . The three main heroes , Luke , Leia and Han all get their stuff to do again for the last time . Their characters are so incredibly strong , well written and portrayed by its actors , that all of them have become classics over the years . And not just they , many characters from the Star Wars universe has grown into well known movie characters . I think this says something about the brilliance of the whole Star Wars saga and how it is written and brought to the screen with lots of passion and talent involved , behind and in front of the camera . This movie also introduces some new well known characters , such as Jabba The Hutt , The Emperor ( OK he also was in " Star Wars : Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back " but this time he is fully correctly introduced and used in the movie . ) , the Ewoks and many more memorable characters . Out of all the Star Wars movie this one is quite possibly the most spectacular , even though " Star Wars : Episode II - Attack of the Clones " comes close . It has many action sequences and the end battle is memorable as well as impressive . It's a three way-battle , where we have Han , Leia , Chewie , 3PO , R2 and the Ewoks fighting the Imperial troops on the forest moon of Endor , we have the Rebel Alliance in space battling the Empire and the Death Star II and we have Luke fighting on the Death Star II against Darth Vader . All three battles are just as important and are given just as many screen time . It makes the final battle sequences something unforgettable and totally awesome to watch . Especially the space battle is without doubt the most spectacular , tense and adrenaline pumping space battle out of movie history . Yes , even after " Star Wars : Episode III - Revenge of the Sith " . The special effects for especially the battle sequences look better as ever before . But it are not just the spaceships that are made to look great . Also the sail barge , the Rancor , the battle for Endor with its AT-ST's . . it all looks incredibly spectacular and convincing . So are the costumes and make-up . We get to see some crazy looking but oh so cool new characters this time . The whole totally imaginative world , characters and weapons is conceived brilliantly in the movie . Perhaps even better than in any other Star Wars movie . Most credit for this really has to go to George Lucas for creating and realizing all of it . Also an amazing amount of credit has to go to composer John Williams , who helps to make the imaginative world look even more convincing and likable and giving every sequence and character its own feeling and atmosphere through the music . Spectacular , humor filled , imaginative , action packed , . . . unforgettable .
The art of violence .	" A Clockwork Orange " is a one of a kind masterpiece . It's odd , intelligent , funny and sickening . Kubrick at his best ! The opening sequence in the milk bar might very well be the best and most well known opening in cinema history . The movie manages to stay strong throughout the whole movie after the opening and only gets better and never weakens for a bit . Every minute is a pleasure to watch because the movie never gets predictable in anyway and the oddness level of the movie makes it so that it will be always a surprise what will happen next and how it will happen . Every scene is pure cinema brilliance . The cinematography , sets , costumes and music all contribute to this , they make the movie a true piece of art . But the true artist is Stanley Kubrick who deserves the most credit . There are countless memorable moments , in other words , watching this movie is an experience that you'll not easily forget . The violent sequences are sickening , twisted , odd but also funny at the same time . The way they are filmed are unique and very artistic . It's violence in its purest form , it's violence at its best . It gives us a view in the the extreme violent twisted mind of the main character and how he struggles against society and how society struggles against him . The story sounds more complicated then it truly is . The movie itself is easy to follow but it are the layers and deeper meanings that makes this movie not easy if not impossible to explain . In my experience it is always very hard to comment on a Kubrick movie mainly because his movies always have so many layers and deeper meanings than a single few hundred words comment can describe . It is best to just watch this movie and experience the brilliance of it that is not easy to describe or explain . In my opinion the best movie ever made .
The most epic movie that no one has ever seen .	This is one real grand old fashioned epic movie , in basically every way imaginable . But how many people have actually ever heard or watched this movie ? Surprisingly not nearly as much as it's deserving . It of course also has to do with the fact that this movie was made at the time of the cold war , so this movie wasn't largely viewed or available in the West . And of course its extreme long running time is also an element that prevents lots of people from watching this . Yes , you can view the movie in parts , since each part of the movie forms a new different ' chapter ' ( Chapter I : Andrey Bolkonskiy , chapter II : Natasha Rostova , chapter III : 1812 god , chapter IV : Pierre Bezukhov ) of the story , focusing on another character , in either war or peace but its of course best and most effective to watch this movie as one whole . After all the chapters and characters are of course all connected . There are a couple of characters that appear - and connect the 4 stories . The chapter themselves also aren't at all times chronological with each other and its rather 4 different tellings and different point-of-views , each of them providing more in depth of the story and characters . Each chapter has of course its own qualities and some are more appealing than others for certain people . And even though the movie its running time is over 7 hours , it still is a movie that moves along just fine . Despite not having the most fast pace , it never drags . It's especially the contrast between the war and peace situations that makes the movie so epic and powerful in what it tries to achieve . Each chapter focuses on a different either war or peace situation . I think Tolstoy himself would had been pleased with this adaption of his novel . It's probably one of the , if not the , most expensive movie ever made but that's hard to really say because of the inflation . So it can't be really said how much this movie cost to make with today's money . The movie not in the least also was so expensive because it took years to make it . It was good to see that they didn't just only put all in the money in the battle sequences of the movie but also obviously in the overall look of the movie . The movie features some amazing large detailed sets and good , detailed , authentic looking costumes . But it of course are still the battle sequences that will impress the most . It will blow your mind . Ten-thousands of extra's were used during the big battle sequences . I keep saying this but it's always more impressive to see an extreme number of real humans charging than it is to watch a grand CGI-battle , no matter how realistic and impressive it all looks . What I also liked during the battles was that it in parts used the same style as ' 20's and ' 30's Russian genre movies , in its camera-work and style of editing mostly . No doubt an homage to the good old golden days of Russian cinema . But the movie overall also uses a great and unique unusual style at times . It uses lots of tricks in parts , such as split-screens and extreme fast editing , to often give the movie an unique and sort of surreal feeling . The movie would often also feature some extreme long shots , in which the camera moves all the way through the ballrooms or other rooms in the palaces or over the battlefield . The acting in the movie is also surprisingly great , as far as I'm able to judge that . I mean it's also hard to really judge the acting quality in a movie in a language that you don't speak or understand for yourself . Seemed to me that most of the actors in this movie are normally stage actors , which was a good and suiting acting style for this , of course sort of overblown , movie . The movie of course features a whole lot of characters but they all get the right required treatment and are deepened out . The long running time of course allowed this all to be possible . No way this movie would had worked out as good as it was just ' merely ' a 3 hour epic . I think the fact that the movie won an Oscar for best foreign film , despite of the cold war at the time , shows how brilliant the movie is .
No words can describe this movie .	The word brilliant doesn't even come close to describe this movie . It's beyond brilliant ! " Lawrence of Arabia " is a big epic movie about an even more epic person . The character of T . E . Lawrence is portrayed perfectly in the movie , not just by the actor Peter O'Toole but also by the director David Lean . Ignore the story , this movie is simply about T . E . Lawrence the at times complex and interesting character that really carries the movie even though the story itself is also more than fascinating . The movie is full with wonderful scene's that never get boring even though the movie is almost 4 hours long . The best way to describe some of the scene's is that it feels like a poem . Some of the scene's will stay with you forever and you will most definitely never forget this movie as long as you live . There are also some other wonderful characters besides T . E . Lawrence that are brought to live by great actors such as Sir Alec Guinness , Anthony Quinn and Omar Sharif . All together they make this movie even more grand , interesting and great to watch . Add to this the magical Maurice Jarre musical score that is one of the bests ever and you even have a more brilliant picture ! There are also some big battle scene's that are beyond you imagination . This movie gives the word epic truly a new meaning ! This is perfection !
One of the most tense movies I've ever seen .	Yes , the talent is really showing ! Along with " The Sugarland Express " this is the movie that can be held responsible for Spielberg's breakthrough . How often does it happen that a TV movie gets a thearetical release ? Not often I think , a movie has to be really good and special for that and " Duel " truly is a rare movie like that . What it is that the movie makes so tense is hard to describe . It probably is the lack of explanation . It is never explained who the truck driver is and what his motivation was . Also the tension is build up perfectly and the movie is just one big chase that will keep you in the edge of your seat . The cinematography is simple but yet effective . It fits the movie's story perfectly and helps to add to the tension . It has to be said ; Dennis Weaver does a great job . Although his voice over at times throughout the movie doesn't feel nessecary and distracting from some of the scene's , such as the whole bar scene , I have a feeling that the scene would had been more effective if it would have left the images and Dennis Weaver's expressions speak for itself . A real tense movie , with an ending that doesn't disappoint .
The mother of horror movies .	This movie was really impressive and quite an experience to see . Who would have ever known that a silent movie would still be so powerful now days . The power of the movie is in the fantastic atmosphere . The sets and environments are perfect and give the movie an unique atmosphere that actually is very creepy , even now days . It's also thanks to the cinematography that captured the images perfectly . One of the most atmospheric movies I have ever seen . The story is told in a great way and I must say that it's told better than any other Dracula movie later released . The movie is full with some classic horror scene's that later would inspire many other filmmakers . And yes the movie is actually scary , which is mainly thanks to Max Schreck who plays the part of Count Orlok in a most incredible way , also helped by some good make up . Most of the other performances are typically early movie stuff . Meaning that it's silly over the top at times . Gustav von Wangenheim gives a great lesson in overacting and his laugh might very well be the weirdest I have ever seen in a movie . But in a way all those performances give the movie a certain charm which makes it irresistible to watch . There are also some surprising good special effects . Better one's as in the 1931 version with Bela Lugosi anyway . Some of them were really impressive and I can imaging it really seriously freaked some people out back in 1922 . Truly a piece of movie history that needs to been seen by the movie lovers , especially by those who like the horror genre . Still after 82 years one of the best horror movies of all time .
Way more than just another Laurel & Hardy movie .	I expected just another Laurel & Hardy slapstick comedy but instead got something that surpassed all my expectations . The story is absolutely great ( based on the Glen MacDonough operetta ) and features many well known fairy tale characters . The entire movie is set in a cheerful and colorful ( atleast when you watch the colored-in version of the movie , released in the ' 90's of course . ) world where everyone lives their simple and happy life and spend most of the time singing cheerful sappy songs . It's truly a movie that's both over-the-top and terribly outdated but that now has become a part of its charm and makes this movie a totally great and absolutely irresistible one . All of the fairly tale like characters are absolutely great in the movie . Most of them don't really play a significant role but their presence alone is enough reason to give the movie a joyful feeling . Speaking of insignificant roles ; how about the boys ? Well , to be honest Laurel & Hardy don't really play a most significant role in the movie . They are mealy sidekicks in the story and even though they get to do some funny sequences , with some typical Laurel & Hardy humor , this movie is not really a slapstick or comedy . It's more a cheerful musical with some comical characters in it . It's difficult to see if the presence of Laurel & Hardy make this movie a better one or not . It isn't really a Laurel & Hardy movie and it has a totally different feel and atmosphere . Some of the fans will be delighted with their appearance in this movie , while others will perhaps be disappointed by it . What really drives the movie is the story and its characters . The movie has a very solid villain in it , perfectly portrayed by Henry Brandon . Brandon apparently only was in his 20's when he played the role , so also lots of credits have to go to the make-up and costume department , for making him look like a scary , old , ugly , almost Scrooge like villain . The story also really has some solid moments in it . The ending is surprisingly big and spectacular and features monster like creatures , versus an army of wooden soldiers ( in certain sequences created with some early stop-motion effects ) , build by our two boys . Even though the movie is mostly cheerful , it also knows how to build up its tension , with as a result some really well story-wise constructed moments that all work out extremely well . I'm going to say something very daring now but here goes ; In my opinion this movie is even better than " The Wizard of Oz " . Both movies are much alike in several different ways . Both movie are set in a cheerful imaginary world , with imaginary likable characters and a ruthless villain who spoils all the happiness in that same cheerful world . Let's face it , both of those movie are extremely old fashioned and outdated but the cheerful charm makes both of the movie irresistible ones , that still speak to the imagination . This movie is a real forgotten masterpiece and the movie deserves to be better known and seen by persons all over the world . Really a movie that I truly enjoyed watching .
Love and drama .	" Turks fruit " has been voted best Dutch movie recently . I can see why , " Turks fruit " is a delicious treat and perfectly mixes an heavy love story with dramatic and realistic moments life is filled with . " Turks fruit " is fine example of good storytelling . The movie is carried by the characters that are very realistically portrayed . Rutger Hauer , Monique van de Ven and Dolf de Vries really are some fine actors . Paul Verhoeven shows with this movie that he also is a great actor director . This movie marked the first real big movie-role breakthrough for both Hauer and van de Ven and also for Verhoeven himself . The movie is filled with some typical and subtle Dutch humor which I really enjoyed in this movie . Some of the characters might seem a bit odd but I can assure you that all of the characters are very realistic and are nothing uncommon here in the Netherlands . The movie is really daring , especially for its time and is not afraid to show some ' skin ' and some explicit scene's . But all of it is done with lots of style so the movie never becomes offensive . The movie is also filled with what later become some typical trademark Verhoeven gore . But all of it serves a purpose in the movie , so it never feels forced like its deliberately put in the movie , to shock the viewers . Verhoeven is a master in this . This is the first Verhoeven movie were he uses the same style which he still puts in his movies these days . The first typically , recognizable Verhoeven movie you can say . The nice little soundtrack is composed by Rogier van Otterloo who later also worked on " Soldaat van Oranje " and " Keetje Tippel " , with Verhoeven again . The harmonica solo's are recognizably done by Toots Thielemans who might very well be the best harmonica player of all time . The cinematography is done by Jan de Bont and gives an at times nice and realistic view of the Netherlands in the ' 70's . Not THE best Dutch movie of all time ( in my opinion that still is " Soldaat van Oranje " ) but this movie absolutely , most certainly is a romantic / dramatic masterpiece with lots of symbolism and unforgettable and powerful moments in it , that perfectly shows the early talent of Verhoeven , Hauer and van de Ven .
More than just a movie ; an iconic statement .	Just like the main character itself , this movie is an icon , for fighting for freedom and liberty in the widest sense of the word . The movie is multiple layered , filled with symbolism and deeper meanings but with one clear main message in it ; People should not be afraid of their governments . Governments should be afraid of their people . It shows that if enough people are behind something , things can be achieved . Even killing and acts of terrorism can be justified . As the character V's says it ; A building is a symbol , as is the act of destroying it . Symbols are given power by people . A symbol , in and of itself is powerless , but with enough people behind it , blowing up a building can change the world . The movie shows obvious interesting parallels to western leaders and governments but also that of the middle east and beyond . The parallels to the Hitler Nazi period were perhaps a bit too extreme and over-the-top to find it credible but in this case I can forgive the movie for that , since it still makes its point clear and works powerful as a thought provoking movie . For this movie truly is one of the most thought provoking movie of the last couple of decades . The movie forces us to use our minds constantly and makes us see how certain acts of violence can be used for the good cause and how symbolism and one act can inspire people for coming into action and to doing the right thing . Leaders shouldn't just be able to get away with everything they do . Almost every aspect of the word freedom is present in the movie . Some in a symbolic way , others in a more obvious way . Such as freedom of speech and censorship in the media , freedom of religion ( some people see this movie is anti-Christian , quite frankly I really don't see why ) and freedom of being able to chose your own sexuality and being able to do what ever makes you feel good and happy . The movie also shows interesting parallels with recent issues and issues from the past , from all over the world , such as the earlier mentioned censorship in the media , which still is the case in certain middle eastern and communist countries , the ex scandals in churches but also the use of violence and terrorism against a governments their own citizens , to control and and form the people . It's refueling the conspiracy theories that the American government itself was behind the attacks , to put fear into the people so the government was more able to do the things their way and gain from it , by getting the people behind them and exploiting from the people's their fear . But also less recent issues such as performing medical tests on prisoners , in order to create a super-race and more Nazi like references . In other words , more than enough interesting parallels to make you think about the world we're living in today . What " V for Vendetta " also does well is mixing action entertainment with thought provoking , almost poetic like elements . In the essence the movie is still an action movie that is fast paced and has a fair amount of violence and fight sequences in it . The action sequences are shot spectacular and form some of the highlights of the movie . But of course " V for Vendetta " is far from your average ' superhero ' movie , it's a too important and relevant movie for that . The characters are also symbolic . Of course the character of V is the best example of this . Behind the mask there is more than flesh . Beneath this mask there is an idea and ideas are bulletproof . I quote V a lot , since everything he says in this movie is true , even when your initial thought might suggest otherwise . Evey is a character who begins as a normal person but slowly starts to becoming just a fearless , determent freedom fighter as V is . Inspector Finch is a normal cop who start to discover and see through the lies that his government , for which he works , spreads and he slowly begins to see the whole picture and V's true intentions . And Chancellor Adam Sutler is symbolic for basically every dictator that ever lived and ruled . The movie is a very good looking one . The cinematography by Adrian Biddle is truly spectacular and this movie was a worthy last picture for him . The special effects are also what makes this movie a really spectacular one . The acting is also of a very high order . Hugo Weaving is great , even though he wears a mask during the entire movie . He acts through his mask and manages to give the character an own personality , complete with working and sensible emotions in certain sequences . Natalie Portman is also great but it sort of makes you wonder why she was cast in this , since she isn't British . Her accent just doesn't sound right but I have to admit that she never looked any better in a movie . She is absolutely beautiful . It was also great to see Stephen Rea in a big production again . John Hurt convincingly plays the villainous dictator . Is there any role that John Hurt can't handle ? He is a very versatile actors that has already played a wide range of different characters . Really amazing . But as a movie it is a rather flawed one to be perfectly honest . The story doesn't always flow and the character development and treatment is also lacking at times . It's obvious that James McTeigue still has a lot to learn when it comes to directing . But it however doesn't take away any of the movie its power or messages . The movie succeeds in what it tries to achieve and because of that I consider this movie as an absolute and important relevant masterpiece . See this movie for its action or its messages . Either way you'll be pleased .
Realistic poetry from Jean Vigo .	Jean Vigo was a director who now more is being appreciated then during his lifetime . This movie was his only full length feature and he died shortly after completing it ( he had been in bad health for basically all of his life ) . His movies get admired for its poetic-realism and if you've seen one of his movies you'll know why . It are always beautiful looking movies , with also a touch of surrealism to it but always with heart and realism . The characters and emotions within the movies are always feeling very real . It's a shame he died so early , for he could had surely delivered some fine many more movies , with his unique and great style . I was impressed by the movie its acting , which seemed to be ahead of its time with its more realistic approach involved . It made the story and therefore also the entire movie as a whole work out as a tender and believable one . It's a very humane movie with real characters and warmth involved . Of course biggest star of the movie is Michel Simon , who had starred in some well known , mostly 1930's , French productions . He plays his character in his trademark strange and comical style . Seriously , has this guy ever played a ' normal ' character in his career ? It's a movie that gets carried by its actors and main characters but also really the movie its fine script obviously help . The movie is basically like a random slice of life and about a young married couple who live on a ship , along with its other colorful crew members . When the woman discovers the Paris night life , she decided to stay ashore , much to the grief of the husband , who slips into a depression . What follows is a story with many different emotions to it but always with a very realistic touch and feeling to it . The movie is really wonderful looking , with some good nimble editing and fine cinematography from later Oscar winner Boris Kaufman and two assistants Louis Berger and Jean-Paul Alphen . But its fine visuals should not in the should also be credited to Jean Vigo's directing approach and way he chooses to tell the story . It's a beautiful movie to look at , as well as it is wonderful to follow the movie its story and get involved with the movie it's main character , portrayed by capable actors . I simply loved watching this movie !
Pure movie magic .	Drama's normally always have the awful tendency of over-dramatizing moments . " Finding Neverland " is actually one of those rare movies that doesn't go over-the-top and none of the dramatic moments feel forced . " Finding Neverland " is a biopic based on the life of play-writer J . M . Barrie , best known as the creator of Peter Pan . The story takes a few liberties with the truth , just like every good biopic always has done . There is never anything wrong with taking some liberties with the story , as long as it is good for the movie its story and main character . The movie its story is truly magical . It shows in a beautiful way that there is a child in all of us and we should not be afraid to show that at times and stop wanting to grow up so eagerly but instead enjoy the little playful things in life . The story works because of the actors their screen chemistry and some beautiful looking sets and costumes . The movie is not all joy , there also are some dramatic moments that work really well and powerful in the movie without ever going over-the-top . The cast is impressive ; Johnny Depp , Kate Winslet , Freddie Highmore , Julie Christie but perhaps the most underrated actor of the movie is Dustin Hoffman . I absolutely loved him in his role and he portrayed his character extremely well . Also look out for a small part by Mackenzie Crook as the usher of the theater . The storytelling of the movie is magnificent and is what makes " Finding Neverland " one of the best dramas of the past couple of years . It's a movie that will make you smile and perhaps also even cry . It's a movie that works extremely well on an emotional level as well as on an entertainment level . It perfectly mixes the hard reality of the real world with the bittersweet elements of the ' no-worries ' imaginative world . A real must see .
Tale as old as time . . .	This animated masterpiece is and will always stay one of the best romantic movies ever created . This is one of those rare movies in which everything comes perfectly together . The characters , the music , the humor , the pace , the story everything in this movie is just perfect . It's a highly memorable movie that everyone should watch at least once in their lifetime . The movie is beautifully animated and it features some of the best Disney characters . Mrs . Potts , Cogsworth , Lumiere and of course Belle and the Beast are highly memorable and very well constructed characters . Also the villain role Gaston which is always one of the most important elements of a Disney movie is a good one . However the villain isn't as prominent to the story as in most other Disney animated movies is the case . This movie truly is about love and the beauty inside . The movie its love story is nicely supported by the very good songs composed by Alan Menken and with lyrics by Howard Ashman . Unfortunately this was Howard Ashman's last project and he died before he could receive his well deserved Oscar for this movie . Unique fact is that this movie was also even nominated for the ' Best Picture ' Oscar . Something that was really well deserved by the way . The story is quite ' mature ' but also there is still plenty to enjoy for the little one's here . The movie is filled with lots of humor and imaginative characters . The movie is told in very good quick pace and features some of the best editing I have ever seen in an animated movie . The voice cast consists out of some good actors ; Angela Lansbury and Jerry Orbach are especially perfect for their roles . The movie features some unforgettable classic moments and is a milestone in animated movie making . An highly recommendable animated romantic movie that shall always remain one of the best romantic movies ever made . This movie is recommendable to everyone , even those who normally don't like romantic stories and movies , thrust me , you'll love this movie .
The story of a cheat .	This is a rather interesting and originally told movie . It focuses on the life of a charming scoundrel . It doesn't sound that interesting or original but its originality also really is more in the way the movie is being told . It's shot with actual little dialog on it and instead features a witty voice-over ( by director / writer / main actor Sacha Guitry himself ) , who tells the story in an amusing way with a pleasant pace . The movie not just begins with an introduction of the main characters but also that of some of the crew members who were involved with this movie . This already sorts of sets the tone for the rest of the movie . It's a very original and unique little movie , that due to its style and atmosphere also definitely as an highly entertaining one to watch . I wouldn't exactly call the style surrealistic and absurdism is perhaps a better word to describe the movie its style and pleasant , often subtle , comedy . Its style always keeps the movie going and also makes this one of the faster paced movies from the ' 30's . It's also a reason why the movie is actually quite short , with its about 80 minutes of running time . Even though the movie basically covers the entire life span of a person , it's over before you know it . You'll surely have a good time watching this very pleasant and highly original little film .
The perfect ending for the trilogy and the best of the so far 3 movies .	After the slightly disappointing " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " , Indiana Jones returns to its basic roots how the series began with , with " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . Once more Indiana Jones is searching for an holy artifact ( the holy grail ) and is traveling around the world and once more he is being chased by the Nazi's . Entertainment really doesn't become any better than this . Never ever has there been another more entertaining and solid movie serial based around one central heroic character . Indiana Jones is an heroic adventurous person that we all admire and would love to be like . It's one of the key elements that makes the Indiana Jones movies so popular and entertaining to watch , all over the world . East or West , poor or rich , everyone loves to watch an Indiana Jones movie . This third establishment of the Indiana Jones trilogy is in my opinion the best . " Raiders of the Lost Ark " might be more entertaining but " Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade " has more than enough things in it that makes this movie such a classic and perfect one to watch . One thing is of course the perfect imaginative story , with locations set all over the world . The story takes us to some of the wonderful places of this planet and does this in a good and consistent pace . The one moment the Jones ' are in Venice the next in Germany but this doesn't work distracting at all . This is thanks to the very well flowing story . But also the story itself is very imaginative and great . It has all the elements a adventurous movie needs , chases , lot's of action , a heroic main character and some stereotype evil villains . Perhaps only thing this movie misses is a good love story . This movie is probably also the most personal of the series . It begins with young Indy's first adventure ( River Phoenix ) and it introduces Indy's father ( Sean Connery ) . It gives the movie some room for a more dramatic undertone about family , a returning element in many Spielberg and Lucas movies . But don't worry , it isn't an overly present element in the movie . The movie really lies its emphasis and its entertainment and adventurous action . Still its an element that enriches the movie and makes it so much more than just another mindless entertaining-flick . The movie also brings some characters back that were severely missing in " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " . Marcus Brody is back and this time , unlike his " Raiders of the Lost Ark " role , serves as the comic relief of the movie . It works extremely effective for the movie and it's one of the reasons why his character has grown out into a classic movie character . This is of course also thanks to Denholm Elliott's perfect portrayal of the character . Another returning character is Sallah ( John Rhys-Davies ) , who in this movie is perhaps even more entertaining than he was in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . One of the things that makes this movie better and lets it distinct itself from the other Indiana Jones movies is the presence of Sean Connery as Indiana Jones his father . He and Harrison Ford have an amazing chemistry together , even though they are only 12 years apart . It gives the movie so much more extra . An old man doesn't seem a likely choice for a spectacular , adventurous action movie but mainly because of that contrast his character works out so well and entertaining in the movie . Also great characters in this movie are the villains . Julian Glover is good as the main villain . He is as British as he can be but he pulls off a , to my ears , convincing American accent . Michael Byrne is really memorable as the Nazi colonel Vogel . He perhaps plays the most stereotypical memorable Nazi out of cinematic history . The action is truly superb and very well directed . It provides the movie with some memorable sequences and spectacular moments . The John Williams musical score is the icing on the cake . It's spectacular , sweeping and matches perfectly with everything happening on the screen . Also the cinematography is quite superb . It's a perfect ending for Douglas Slocombe's career , who is still alive but is retired . Sure , Indiana Jones 4 ( if it ever gets made , still have my doubts if it will ) will most probably be good and at least entertaining to watch but fact remains that this movie forms a perfect ending for the series . The heroes riding into the sunset , can it be anymore symbolic , definitive and perfectly suiting ?
The most tripping movie ever made .	If you don't want to take drugs but still want to experience a tripping experience , " Natural Born Killers " is the perfect alternative solution . There is no holding back Oliver Stone in this one . Oliver Stone movies of course often feature weird camera angles , extreme editing and cuts and at times dream like atmosphere but " Natural Born Killers " really goes to the extreme . The cuts are extreme , making this one fast hell of a ride , with dream ( or better said nightmare ) like images . Oliver Stone used all of his tricks , by using many different film formats , old stock footage and random images and animated sequences in between . This all ensures the movie its constant hallucinative look and feeling . It's comical , it's violent , it's odd but yet it also remains to know perfectly accessible to everyone . It has a story ( originally written by Quentin Tarantino ) that is filled with violence . It's about a psychotic couple on a killing spree and we mostly get to see things the way they experience them . It makes us close to the main characters , despite their extremely violent nature . They are like a modern Bonnie & Clyde . But the story is of course about a lot more of things , going into many different directions , mainly concerning how violent hungry the world has become , especially concerning its media , as gets perfectly depicted by sensationalist reporter Wayne Gale , played by Robert Downey Jr . Quite ironic of course that Robert Downey Jr . plays in such a tripping movie , considering his drug past . Same goes for Tom Sizemore . Both must had had no difficulties coming into character and capturing the right mood of the movie with their performances . Besides those two , the movie has many other different great actors in supporting roles . Tommy Lee Jones is of course especially memorable in his totally crazy role as the prison warden Dwight McClusky . The movie further more also features Rodney Dangerfield , O-Lan Jones and Dale Dye among many , many others . But despite having many great and well known actors in it , the movie still gets mostly carried by it's two main principal actors , Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis . They are actually really a cute couple together in this movie , as weird as this might sound , considering all these things they are doing in this movie . One of my favorite movies of the ' 90's .
One of the most unique and essential science-fiction viewings .	What makes " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " a great - and one of the best science-fiction movies is its totally serious and honest open approach of the genre . Something that really wasn't too common yet in the ' 70's . Science-fiction really wasn't regarded as a particular good genre or one that was to be taken seriously . Steven Spielberg's " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " and George Lucas ' " Star Wars : Episode IV - A New Hope " , of the same year , most likely changed this forever and gave science-fiction a good name again . Something that so far had only been achieved by film-makers such as Stanley Kubrick and Fritz Lang earlier . " Close Encounters of the Third Kind " is a movie that takes a very serious approach . The main character is an average Joe and there are no plots to take over the world or anything of that sort . It also means that it really takes its time to build and set things up . It perhaps makes the ending all the more legendary and classic . In the first half of the movie things still more or less only get implied and we never get a clear good full view of the events that are happening . It sort of makes you feel uneasy and not sure what to think of the events that are happening . Something that also really knows to add to the drama and overall mystery - and especially atmosphere of the movie . A returning theme in several Spielberg movies is family . Family also really plays a central role within this movie . The Neary's are a great but above all realistic movie family . The dialog and characters all feel really real . The way they behave and respond and cope to the situations is done really believable . It of course also really helps that the main character is being played by Richard Dreyfuss . The guy is only in his early 60's at the moment but he hasn't done anything good for such an incredible long time that you would think he is in his 80's instead . It such a shame such he was and still is such a great actor . Perhaps this is his most ultimate role , or it at least is definitely his best leading role . Also French director François Truffaut plays a great role . It's a very unusual casting choice that works out perfectly . The movie is really well made and put together by its crew . Spielberg's directing is peaking within this movie and for 1977 standards its also really good and impressive looking , in terms of its special effects . Despite the fact that the best of the best in the business were busy working on " Star Wars " at the moment they still did an amazing job with it all . It's of course especially good looking in its remastered and revised movie versions , of which the ultimate 30th year anniversary director's cut is the latest example . The cinematography by Vilmos Zsigmond is also worth mentioning and so is of course also the musical score by John Williams , that quite literally plays a key element within the movie . He once more provided a great , memorable and purely classic musical score with this movie . Simply a must-see !
Just one of those movies in which everything adds up perfectly .	This is one of those rare fairly recent movies in which everything just adds up perfectly . It also pleases me to see that you don't necessarily need a big budget to make a brilliant with these days and still have a great talented and acclaimed cast & crew involved in it . This movie has always been compared a lot to " Fargo " . And yes , there also are similarities ; both movies involve a large sum of movie , both involve some odd but yet realistic character , both involve killings , both involve a seemingly good plan that goes from bad till worse and both involve snow . A lot of snow . " A Simple Plan " is also a very white looking movie , which provides the movie with a good - as well as beautiful looking settings and atmosphere . But perhaps the reason why this movie never really became a financial or critical big success was also " Fargo " . This movie was made only 2 years after the brilliant " Fargo " and like always the majority of the public say this movie as a bad copy , trying to cash in after the success of " Fargo " . And also like always , the movie is now , almost 10 years later , slowly gaining more credit and is better known and watched by more and more people . What mainly makes " A Simple Plan " such a great movie is that it features ordinary everyday people . It makes the characters and therefor the movie as a whole , a very realistic feeling one to watch . It of course also helps that they are being played by some top-class actors . It's funny how Bill Paxton always basically plays the same guy but hey , he's good at it . Billy Bob Thornton is also always at his best playing these sort of simple minded characters . This is yet another wonderful performance by him and he rightfully so was also nominated for an Oscar for it . This is not really the sort of movie you 1 , 2 , 3 would expect from a guy like Sam Raimi . There is also basically very little in this movie that can be described as ' typicaly Raimi ' . Not even Ted Raimi is present in it ! Everything indicates that his is just an in between little project for him , which all makes it sort of ironic that this is also one of his best movies . It has a very effective story , that on top of all things is really well written and constructed . It's a character movie but also with lots of twists and turns in the actual plot . The story style reminds us of a good old fashioned film-noir . It's about ordinary people who get themselves into an ordinary situation . They form ' a simple plan ' but almost immediately things start to go from bad till worse , without giving any spoilers . The story was written by Scott B . Smith , who based it on his own novel . The screenplay was even nominated for an Oscar as well . A rare great movie , that is so great due to its realistic approach , performances and a well written and constructed story .
Such a powerful striking movie !	This is such a great - and even better told story . It features normal average persons who get in some realistic difficulties and struggle with life . You can just feel how heartbroken the old man is after loosing his job and the respect he had among the community because of his uniform . Yeah , uniforms were still a that big thing at that time . The movie especially does a good job with showing the contrasts between the ' two worlds ' , of money and respectability and poor and being just considered average , or even less . It makes " Der Letzte Mann " such a powerful and effective movie ! I love it when a silent movie doesn't use too many or hardly any title cards . Just let the images tell the story . It takes a great director to do this but F . W . Murnau was obviously one of the best , not just of his time but of all time ! The movie is filled with some greatly made and looking memorable sequences , such as a couple of great dream-like - and surrealistic sequences . In those sequences it becomes once all the more obvious how great of a director F . W . Murnau was . The movie is filled and even more uplifted by its fantastic camera-work ! I love it when old movies use early movement-effects and pans and zooms , though obviously the movie doesn't use this all the time . Especially the beginning is memorable , when the movie opens with one of the first ever hand-held camera shots . It's different from the normal usual static camera-work from the ' 20's and ' 30's . But also the lighting of the movie is absolutely phenomenal . It gives the movie such a good , warm and effective powerful look . The same goes for the fast and nimble editing and compositions , that make the story flow extremely well . Old movies normally feel distant because of the old fashioned style and look . But not this one ! The movie was obviously mostly shot at studios and the street sets look like they were made out of cardboard ( which they most likely also were ) but that is all part of the charm of these expressionistic German movies from the ' 20's , such as also " Metropolis " , " Das Cabinet des Dr . Caligari " and " Faust " . The make-up effects are perhaps an underrated aspect of the movie . I mean it's not a ' make-up ' movie , such as " Nosferatu , eine Symphonie des Grauens " or " Faust " ( both also directed by F . W . Murnau by the way ) but remember that Emil Jannings was in his early 40's during this movie , though he truly looked like he was in his 60's or so . So some really effective and convincing make-up effects here ! If you didn't knew any better you would just think that this movie had a 60 year old playing the main character . A great , powerful - but also beautiful movie experience , from F . W . Murnau !
The movie got me interested in WWII .	Before I saw " Saving Private Ryan " I wasn't interested in anything WWII related . Every time there was a documentary on I would change the channel , I couldn't stand classics such as " The Guns of Navarone " , " The Eagle Has Landed " and " The Longest Day " , I even didn't liked " Schindler's List " . And then I saw " Saving Private Ryan " . . . " Saving Private Ryan " is more than just an ordinary war movie . Its realism makes it important to watch for the entire world . It shows the horrors of war in a very direct way . It is mainly important to see for the young generation these days and those to come . Sure you can watch tons of documentaries and read dozens of books but watching this movie is the closest you can get to the real thing , it's that realistic . The first 30 minutes is a real wake up call . The Normandy invasion is really impressive and made very realistic with lots of noise and body parts flying around . The cinematography and the sound makes you feel like you are right in the middle of it . Yes , after that the movie becomes a bit slow but it never becomes uninteresting . The movie takes its time to build up the characters . As a result there follow some typical Spielberg sentiments but in this case I'll forgive him for that , I even forgive him for some of the American patriotism he puts in the movie . The D-Day landing isn't the only impressive thing about this movie . All of the battle sequences are filmed in an unique and very realistic way . The final battle is very tense , especially in the beginning when the tension gets build up right before the battle begins and you can hear the tanks approaching while the men nervously await . My heartbeat went at least 3 times faster than normal . I also like the portrayal of the German soldiers . In most other earlier movies they were portrayed as the ultimate bad guys that love to march and kill and follow every order they receive without thinking for them selves . In " Saving Private Ryan " they are more portrayed as just soldiers . Sure they do some bad things in the movie but so do the American soldiers , shooting surrendering Germans for instance . " Saving Private Ryan " show that there are no real good guys in war , which is very close to the truth I think . The characters are very realistic with real emotions . It also doesn't matter in the movie if you're a main character or the most interesting character of the movie , just like in real life everybody is vulnerable . The characters are wonderfully portrayed by an at the time and still relatively unknown cast , with the exception of Tom Hanks and Matt Damon of courseThe movie and its style set the standards for many later war movies to come but none of them comes really close to this masterpiece .
A brilliant and unique treat .	All you need for a great movie is a good and original concept . At least that is what this movie suggests . It's daring and unique concept makes this an original movie for sure but it handles its concept also with lots of class and depth , making this simply a brilliant Japanese movie from the late Kinji Fukasaku . Out of all Japanese movies I've seen so far , this is also the one that is the most Americanized . Normally this isn't a very good sign when a ' foreign ' movie gets made in Hollywood-style but this movie is truly an exception to this . The fact that this movie feels Hollywood like is also a reason why this movie is perfectly watchable and accessible , even for those who aren't at custom with movies from outside of the United States . But however this really doesn't mean that this movie is your average typical Hollywood work . Quite on the contrary . The movie has a quite daring concept , that perhaps also sounds silly and unlikely at first but in the movie gets delivered as a real realistic and effective one . The movie can be seen as a protest against modern ( Japanese ) society and perhaps also the media . It gives " Batoru rowaiaru " also some more depth with its story and themes . It's not just its concept that makes this a great and original movie but also truly the handling of it all . The main concept is very simple but at the same time very intriguing . It raises some real moral questions about what you would do when you get into a situation like this . The story is about an average Japanese ninth-grade school class who are being forced to kill each other on a remote island in a freaky death-match , in which the only survivor after 3 days gets to get back home . If more than 1 person is still alive after 3 days , everyone dies . This all due to the Battle Royale Act , that is called to life due to the highly increasing insubordination of the Japanese youth , that causes the Japanese economy to decrease rapidly . The movie has lots of different characters in it , of which some have less problems with killing their friends than others . Some play the game really fanatically , while others team up , in order to survive longer and also to try and find a way to end the game without having to kill their friends . Everyone plays their own game and no matter what their intentions and morals are , all are being forced to do something against their own nature , due to the very unusual circumstance they find themselves in . The diversity of characters also ensures that the movie never gets boring or ' more of the same ' all of the time . The movie has some real great characters in it that are big movie stereotypes but really work out well for this type of movie . It gives lots of different characters room but never without loosing focus on its two main characters . The fact that most youngsters are being played by real teenagers also helps . It increases the credibility and also makes it easier to identify with characters . Of course the movie is also filled with violence , done Japanese-style . The movie is pretty straight-forward with its violence , from pretty early on already into the movie . Again , this also really adds to the realism and overall credibility of the movie . For Japanese standards its also a pretty expensive and big looking movie with its action , even though the movie only cost a mere $4 , 500 , 000 to make . Due to its nature the movie never became a big success outside of Japan , since no distributors dared to buy the movie and release it in different countries . In Japan the movie remains one of the most successful box office successes and the movie has also really founds its way outside of the Japanese boundaries and the movie now days is known in most countries and considered to be a cult-classic already . One of the most daring and original movies I've seen in a while .
Brilliant story telling makes this movie an unique one .	Quentin Tarantino had done it again . If you thought he would just be an one day fly after " Reservoir Dogs " , you couldn't be more wrong . Once again just like in " Reservoir Dogs " the storytelling is unique . The movie has several different story lines that are all in some way connected and to make the story even more complicated , they are not told in the right order . It sound like the story is hard to follow , how ever this is not the case . The story is easy to follow , so everybody should be able to see the brilliance of it . The movie is filled with sex , drugs , violence and bad language . All of this combined makes the movie one of the most kick butt movies . All of the stories are great and wonderfully written . It's amazing to see how they are connected . The stories are not typically Hollywood like , meaning that they are not predictable and don't follow the Hollywood movie rules . What makes the stories even more great are the dialogues . The movie is filled with the famous trademark Tarantino dialogues and is a true pleasure to listen to , they are very raw and realistic , just like the characters . Brilliant dialogue ! There are countless classic scene's and some of them are up there with the most classic out of movie history . The movie is filled with some great music that sets the movies mood . There is a big all star cast with actors such as John Travolta , Samuel L . Jackson , Tim Roth , Amanda Plummer , Phil LaMarr , Frank Whaley , Bruce Willis , Ving Rhames , Uma Thurman , Harvey Keitel and Christopher Walken . Having such a cast is already a signal that this is more than just an ordinary movieA must see unique movie .
