Freaked Me Out	Why do people class this as a " Feature film " ? It's nothing of the sort , it's just an ego trip for someone who's had too much excess in life and has started to believe the hype . Look at the opening sequence of Jacko performing Man In The Mirror , it's intercut with footage of Martin Luther King , Ghandi , John Lennon and others . Are we to seriously believe Jacko belongs in such esteemed company ? No doubt his present day fans - All three of them - will point out his " genius " by saying how the audience at the concert shown react with hysterical euphoria , but people reacted exactly the same way when attending Hitler's Nuremberg rallies in the 1930s so " genius " isn't always an admirable thingBut after the ego trip things start to get really disturbing . A lot of people have discussed subconcious subtext in Victor Salva films and we see a similar thing in MOONWALKER . I don't know what people thought of it on its original release in 1988 but watching a plot in 2003 that involves MJ surrounding himself with young children left me disgusted . Even more disgusting is a subplot where Joe Pesci's Mr Big wants to get the world's children hooked on addictive drugs ! If you think that's offensive wait till you see the scene where Mr Big assaults a young child and holds her down while preparing to inject her with hard drugs . Yeah that's right a " family film " which sees little children being assualted , almost being injected with drugs and I haven't even mentioned the scary scenes with big hairy tarantulas - What the hell were the producers thinking of ? The first half of this crap is a Jackson ego trip that made me want to vomit while the second half freaked me out . If there's any parents reading this I beg you not to let your children watch this because it gave even me nightmares
The Trouble With Democracy . . . .	. . . . Is that any idiot can cast a vote . Take THE 100 GREATEST MOVIE STARS OF ALL TIME yet another list show from Channel 4 . If we're talking about movie stars we're talking about movie stars from all eras of cinema , people like Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy , Spencer Tracy and Kirk Douglas none of whom actually appeared in the top 100 list That's bad enough but Ewan McGregor landed at number 9 ! What an actor who is only convincing playing an Edinburgh junkie is the 9th greatest movie star ever ! I'd thought maybe STAR WAR fans had stuffed the poll but that theory collapsed when I realised Alec Guiness didn't make the list . If McGregor deserves to be number 9 then the entire cast of EASTENDERS deserve to be in the top 50 somewhere . Kevin Spacey landed at the lofty heights of number 4 , another travesty . I will give some of the voters credit for NOT voting DeNiro ( Number 2 ) as the greatest ever movie star . Bob has shamefully let himself down by continually appearing in B movies for many years whilst the winner of the poll Al Pacino does give the impression he has some standards when it comes to appearing in films A very flawed list and I'm getting really fed up with these type of shows from Channel 4 . That's why I didn't vote in their meaningless poll
The Cynical Antithesis To Live Aid	It was twenty years ago today . . . well not quite but it was twenty years ago this month that the world experienced Live Aid that raised tens of millions of dollars for famine relief in Africa and Bob Geldof was the reincarnation of Jesus . What a guy , and as the G8 leaders got ready to meet in Scotland Sir Bob got a few friends together to have concerts all over the world to send out a message to the world leaders to end poverty . I won't be cynical here because even the harshest critic recognises Geldof is nothing but sincere and he'll always visit Africa to do his best regardless if there's TV cameras filming him or not , but Live 8 must be the most cynical concert event in historyFirst of the artist line up . Hyde Park had REM a band who have their best days behind them by about ten years . Are they really a big name act ? Same as UB40 . At least with Live Aid we had the biggest acts of the day take part even if most of them disappeared from the radar soon afterwards . I mean who are Velvet Revolver or Razorlight ? Are they off the stature Queen or U2 were in 1985 ? Of course not . Oh and what idiot thought The Who would be a welcome addition ? Pete Townshend was asked to perform ! No doubt Gary Glitter is upset his invite got lost in the post Secondly the language . Bob swore live on air in 1985 but he organised the life saving world changing concert so he can get away with it , but here we saw Green Day swear in a pre recorded piece from Berlin while Hyde Park heard the F word come from Velvet Revolver ( I've still no idea who they are ) while Snoop Dogg continually ranted on about a " mother figure " or something . I'm no prude but all this took place well before the 9pm watershed . Robbie Williams too let out some colourful expletives but this was around 10 . 15 pm and is acceptable I guess . But even so the swearing shows a lack of maturityLastly my major gripe is what's the cause ? Live Aid raised money via the £20 ticket for the concert , and the pledges , tens of millions were raised but the concert goers for Live 8 attended via a text messaging system and this means the world wide concerts were effectively free , no money was raised for NGOs and the general public who unfortunately are ignorant on African affairs went home still ignorant on African affairs . One thing we did learn was that Velvet Revolvers guitarist used to be in Guns N Roses and that Mariah Carey has a new single out . Forgive me being cynical but aren't the biggest - Perhaps only - winners on Saturday 2nd July 2005 the artists who performed ? I see the record sales of some acts have risen by over 1 , 000 per cent " Theo you're so cynical you disgust me " Sorry that wasn't my intention but I did read in the press that all the artists at Hyde Park received goody bags with contents that cost several thousand pounds while the African children who appeared on stage with the artists got a free T-Shirt . Oh and seeing as there's all these kids dying in Africa because of lack of medical facilities or clean drinking water I wonder how much money the performers spent on drink and drugs that day ? Yup rock stars are the sort of people who can really empathise with the starving souls of this world . I won't condemn them all of course because as I said Geldof is a genuine living saint while other artists appearing are genuinely caring about the suffering in Africa especially Bono whose set with U2 was far superior to the performance seen at Wembly 1985 . But apart from that opening moment Live 8 is totally unfit to be compared to Live Aid
Bloody Brilliant ? Bloody Crap More Like	I don't rate JK Rowling as a writer so when the hype machine stated that HARRY POTTER AND THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE ( As it's called in Britain ) was going to be faithful to the book I thought this was a film that wasn't worth seeing but I decided to give it a chance , after all I hadn't expected much from THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING but I ended up falling in love with Peter Jackson's beautiful masterpiece . But after watching THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE my instincts had been proved right and in many ways the film had lived down to expectations . First of all I found it highly patronizing the way it talks down to its audience in a very substandard Roald Dahl way . Secondly the film has far too many characters that add nothing to the plot , and thirdly I'm not sure if the film actually has a plot . Yeah things happen but many of these things don't seem to lead to anything so why were they included ? I noticed the second Harry Potter film didn't perform as well as hoped which gives me hope that the next films in the franchise bomb big time . And I reckon Frodo Baggins could kick Harry Potter's ass
The Reason It's Hard To Find	Someone on this page has mentioned this TVM is hard to find . The fact that the plot involves a plane crashing into a skyscraper might have something to do with it but the main reason is the fact that it's total pants . Check out this sample of dialogue from one of the characters : " I've got to get grease by midnight or else I'll die " You can tell William Goldman had nothing to do with this scriptIt also says something when a TVM markets itself as having the sons of two Hollywood icons in the starring roles . Next thing you know we'll be having TVMs that hype themselves up because the stars once appeared in a crowd scene with John Wayne or Robert Mitchum
Remember - Both Music And Film Don't Get Much Worse Than This	It's difficult to remember when popular culture was much worse than the mid 1970s . Television was truly great however as the great Jon Pertwee gave way to Tom Baker's gothic horror era as Doctor Who and there was a new cop show in Britain called THE SWEENEY . Sadly these television golden moments weren't matched by music or fashion as the most successful pop star in Britain at the time was a short 30 something bloke in a wig called Gary Glitter . GG first hit the charts in 1972 with a more or less instrumental single called Rock And Roll Part 2 which still gets played at sports staduims in the states today . It's quite a good tune if truth be told but then Gary had to spoil everything by releasing records where he actually sang REMEMBER ME THIS WAY was made to cash in on what was known as " Glittermania " . At a running time of 57 minutes some people will complain that it's far too short while most people will complain it's too long by at least 56 minutes . Like those Beatles films that were made in the 1960s the story follows a vague plot with Gary on a neo fascist organization's hit list , but the plot is unimportant as the film is a showcase for Gary's singing . The production values are very poor . In fact I've seen better made porn movies ( Thankfully none of them starring Gary Glitter ) and since Glitter's music is to the fore every porno movie I've seen has far better music too . It's obvious Glitter wasn't born to be an actor and if most people were honest watching this they'd say he wasn't born to sing eitherREMEMBER ME THIS WAY is probably the worst movie ever to have come out of this country and is too long by at least 56 minutes
I Hate This Film	I saw A ZED AND TWO NOUGHTS in the spring of 1987 . I read in the tv guide that this film " Contains scenes that some viewers may find disturbing " . Great I thought , this mean's that it's gonna be a gritty hard hitting film just like SCUM or APOCALYPSE NOW or all these other films that contain the warning " Contains scenes that some viewers may find disturbing " . So I sat down to watch it and was disgusted by what I saw . What a load of pretentious anally retentive crap ! Who the hell wants to watch vegetable matter and dead animals decompose ? Come on put your hands up . People who admit to liking this film are just kidding themselves on , they're showing off big time by pretending to be intellectuals . Obviously working class scum like myself and most other people who watch movies are too thick to recognise ZOO as being a wonderful piece of art . And you know what ? I'm glad about that . It's not often I give a film a 1 on the IMDB but that's what I'm giving ZOO . On an entertainment level it deserves 0 . Or should that be a NOUGHT ?
Inaccurate , Contrived And Full Of Plot Holes	! ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ! - And no I'm not making any of this upMy first and only viewing of ACT OF BETRAYAL was way back in 1988 and it's a sign of an extremely poor mini series that I can still remember all its flaws 15 years on The central plot alone is a major problem : IRA man Michael McGurk turns supergrass after a bombing on London that leaves several civilians dead . He and his family are given safe haven to Australia under witness protection to start a new life and the IRA command in the Republic of Ireland hire an American hitman called Callaghan to kill the McGurk family . There are several obvious problems with this scenario . Didn't McGurk ever realise that the provisional IRA are a terrorist organisation ? I'm just kind of curious as to why he was so angry about innocent civilians being killed when it has been happening for 20 years ? Perhaps he thought he joined GreenPeace by mistake ? And his naming names wouldn't have led to IRA men being jailed as seen here . Internment in Northern Ireland had been stopped in the mid 1970s which meant for a conviction to be gained in terrorist trials in the province hard evidence such as forensics were needed to jail terrorists , statements from a supergrass would never stand up in a Northern Ireland court . And why would the IRA employ an American hitman ? I was under the impression they have their own execution squads . And there's a factual error in having the IRA command in the Republic Of Ireland , since the split between the officials and provisionals in 1970 the provisionals IRA command has been based in the north not the republic . As the plot goes on it gets more and more contrived , Michael starts an affair with some Aussie blonde with republican sympathies while his wife starts having strong feelings towards the special branch officer guarding them ( I guess that's why the word betrayal features in the title ? ) , the officer goes home to Belfast where he is abducted and dies at the hands of the IRA who find a plane ticket from Australia and a cuddly toy Kangeroo which makes realise the McGurks are in Oz and via Michael's extra marital lover who unknowingly gives away too much information Callaghan manages to track down the McGurks . Yes that's right a massive country like Australia with a population of over 20 million people and a hitman can still track you down even though you've changed your identity and all because you fancied some extra marital sex with a blonde bimbo ! As far as I know ACT OF BETRAYAL was shown only once on British television and considering it makes PATRIOT GAMES and THE DEVIL'S OWN look like documentaries it was shown once too often
Utter And Absolute Garbage	As other people on this page have pointed out the plot for MORVERN CALLAR is thus : Girl wakes up to find her boyfriend has committed suicide . He leaves her his unpublished novel . She sells it . The end . There's hardly enough material there for a short film never mind a feature length movie and this fact becomes more and more obvious as director Lynne Ramsay fills up the running time with scenes that either outlive their usefullness by several minutes or are completely superflous in driving the plot . In fact that's the whole problem with the movie , the director is unable to inject any type of narrative drive to the proceedingsI could spend several paragraphs telling you how much I detested this anally retentive piece of art house crap but you get the picture so I won't bother you needlessly since unlike Lynne Ramsay I can get to the point . I will point out that MORVERN CALLAR has won awards which means nothing since " Former " terrorists have won the Noble peace prize and it's shocking a film this audience unfriendly was awarded funding
Galveston Oh Galveston	Apologies if the above summary doesn't tie in with the rest of the review but the title reminded me of the Glenn Campbell song . Truth be told singalonga Glenn was th only pleasure I got while watching this dire TVM . A black woman called Jordan decides to open a care home in order to make some money . Not a very exciting plot but it's difficult to explain how dire it all is because of many very slow scenes . Did I say it's dire ? Good because I want to spell it out for you - This TVM is D-I-R-E . The first third of the story features some of the slowest scenes ever witnessed in a TVM . The worst thing is these scenes usually end up going absolutely nowhere anyway so why were they included ? Strangely for a TVM we're treated to the " N " word , the " B " word and even the " O " word but this doesn't make THE ROAD TO GALVESTON a more eventful journey . The only positive thing about this TVM is that it points out that it's a very bad idea to let a drunk supervise senile old ladies but I guess everyone knew that same as everyone knows letting your kids spend the night at Neverland ranch can lead to dire consequences Number of times the word " dire " appeared in the above review - 5
Oh Dear	I wish to confess to being a DOCTOR WHO fan but when I see something like DIMENSIONS IN TIME I feel nothing but shame and deep embarrassment at being a fan . Okay I know that this nothing more than a filler during the BBC's annual children In Need appeal that is not to be taken seriously but that didn't stop my skin turning an extremely deep shade of red at watching it . DIT is possibly the worst thing I have ever seen under the DOCTOR WHO banner as Doctors , companions and monsters come and go for no apparent reason . Nice to know that most fans I've discussed it with also despise it
Neds Only	A conversation I overheard in Rothesay on the Isle Of Bute : 1st Ned : Wassa film called man ? 2nd Ned : Freddy got fingered man . It's fin ' brilliant man . You should watch it man , it's a good laugh manWhat's a ned ? It's a common expression in Scotland . It should actually be written in capital letters since it's an acronym for Non Educated Delinquent Scum ( NEDS ) . It's a sort of Scottish version of redneck scumbags , though I do hope that the worst redneck scumbag has more critical awareness when it comes to cinema , in which case rednecks won't want to see FREDDY GOT FINGEREDThe film actually starts off very well with Tom Green skateboarding through a shopping arcade pursued by security guards . The reason this scene is so good is because it has been totally inspired by TRAINSPOTTING . The film decides to then go its own way ( Bad move ) and the audience ( Well the neds in the audience ) are treated to some classic hilarity like Tom Green pulling a horse's plonker , Tom Green running around with a deer carcass around him and Tom Green eating a sandwich while watching two horses get it on . Oh and did I mention every single scene has foul language and Tom Green speaking in a bloody stupid voice ? Well every scene does so don't say I didn't warn you , and to think I slagged off SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 3 in a previous review , compared with this garbage SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT 3 was the masterwork of a comic geniusTHE TOM GREEN SHOW is also utter crap so I've written two reviews for the price of one and if you're reading this Tom Green why don't you come and live on the Island Of Bute for the rest of your life on welfare ? You'll be in good company amongst the neds and the rest of the human race won't have to put up with your brand of so called comedy
Why Does Britain Bother . . . .	. . . to continually produce badly scripted movies ? Make no mistake , the core problem with THE WEDDING TACKLE is the screenplay . Didn't anyone notice before they started shooting that this film has no premise , no plot and is full of under developed characters ? As soon as the movie started I thought I was going to be watching some sort of bitter / sweet rom-com , then I thought I was going to be watching a bawdy sex comedy , then I thought I was going to be watching a comedy thriller , then I thought I was going to be watching a farce and all these conclusions took place within the first 15 minutes of the movie , which incidentally feels like it was made by a bunch of under talented film students . If people in Britain can't be bothered to develop a script for a cinematic release why should people flock to the cinema to see their movie ? " Anything else you want to warn us about Theo ? " Yes . You know the worst actor in Britain ? , the one from EASTENDERS who got shot by a bunch of daffodills in 1988 then returned to the show last year , you know the actor who's so wooden he only gives a good performance as a forest . Well he plays the villain in THE WEDDING TACKLE which that alone is reason enough to give this thoroughly unentertaining movie a miss " TAXI "
Without Doubt One Of The Worst Movies Ever Produced	It wasn't my idea to watch INLAND EMPIRE . I kind of got talked into by some very nice people who I respect very much . I respect them so much I will not embarrass them by giving out their names but they know who they are and they're going to the cinema to see Nuri Bilge Ceylan's IKHIMLER next week and because of their taste in film I think I'll stay at home because in my humble opinion INLAND EMPIRE is one of the worst pieces of dung ever committed to celluloid I'm not a great Lynch fan but I did enjoy THE ELEPHANT MAN and WILD AT HEART had its moments as did ERASERHEAD despite - or because of - its bizarre atmosphere . If you liked these movies you will hate INLAND EMPIRE . If you disliked these movies you will absolutely despise INLAND EMPIRE . If you loved these movies you will possibly only merely dislike INLAND EMPIRE ! ! ! ! ! SLIGHT SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! The problem with the movie is that it feels like it's being made up as it goes along . That's because the movie is being made up as it goes along ! We start off with a man and woman their faces obscured speaking a Slavonic language about to have sex . We then cut to a situation comedy starring what can only be described as " Rabbit people " which is being watched by a weeping woman . The story then cuts to movie star Nikki Grace being cast in a film that was previously abandoned during the production stage because the male and female lead were murdered " Hey Theo I think I know where this might be heading . Nikki finds herself caught up in a dangerous situation ala classic Hitchcock " Yeah well that's where I thought it was heading but then . . . . well I don't know what happened because everything started going haywire . Nikki finds herself caught up in a kind of metaphysical universe with another visit to the rabbit people I thought I'd missed something so popped out of the cinema for a cigarette just to see if my confusion was caused by a lack of nicotine . I returned and instantly thought I'd walked into the wrong screening because the story now involved whores dancing around to a pumping soundtrack of Little Eva . More cuts to Nikki in a metaphysical universe , more cuts to the rabbit people sit-com . After two hours of this esoteric crap I decided that I'd had enough and decided to catch the last bus home . Sure as hell I wasn't going to endure a very long walk or an expensive taxi ride in order to catch the end of this vanity project And I made the correct decision because when we discussed the movie the next day everyone agreed on one thing - None of us knew WTF it was about . It's never revealed who the rabbit people were or who the weeping woman was , though I would hazard a guess it was possibly someone who spent £4 . 20 for a ticket to watch this garbage which I can honestly say is the worst movie I have ever seen in a cinema . I wasn't all that keen on the last movie I saw in a cinema - OUTLAW but at least it had a story no matter how contrived and underdeveloped Nick Love's screenplay wasINLAND EMPIRE may work as a drug movie ( The audience were suspiciously quiet as in they might have been smoking a certain brand of tobacco that can't be bought in shops ) or as irony in that the writer / director is called Lynch which is exactly what I wanted to do with anyone who financed this rubbish . People may defend the movie by saying it's an enigma wrapped up in a mystery but take it from me it's excrement wrapped up in manure
A Truly Great Motion Picture . . .	. . . If all you look for in a motion picture is people getting their stomachs ripped open and their hearts eaten ! Hey you don't honestly think I was gonna give DON'T GO NEAR THE PARK a good write up do you ? How on earth can anyone enjoy a movie which comes in a video box with a blood drenched man guzzling a human heart on its cover ? And before you ask It wasn't me who chose this from the video store many years ago The story ( for want of a better word ) starts with a supernatural being who looks like David Copperfield feasting upon human hearts centuries ago . Cut to the present day he seduces a young blonde who then gives birth to a daughter called Bondi . Not only is he a terrible gourmet but he seems to have an obessesion with Australian beaches . Bondi leaves home due to her mother's jealousy due to her father's love : " Gold . You never fin ' gave me gold " which seems to give the movie an angle of teenage angst . Of course this is obviously coincidental because it's safe to say that no one working on this production will have ever heard of a sophisticated word like angst , I mean a script that has lines like " If you want to be my brother stop feeling me up . Brothers don't feel up sisters " is not very sophisticatedStrange that all the reviewers on this page have never gone into detail about the plot of DON'T GO NEAR THE PARK and from memory I'm having a lot of problems trying to remember what the plot was . I could tell you what happens but I don't want to spoil your enjoyment and just like in an overblown James Bond movie lots of things may happen in the narrative but that doesn't necessarly mean the film has a plot , more of a rambling set of scenes with someone getting killed every few minutes That's a joke by the way . There's nothing to enjoy about this crap
This Film Is Sick	Original is not a word to describe THE MUTATIONS . To sum up its plot it's a hybrid between a mad scientist film and FREAKS . Unoriginality is not enough to condemn it of course , but what makes THE MUTATIONS a truly terrible film is the fact that it's so sickening . When Tod Browning made FREAKS in the 1930s disabilty and deformatity were I imagine treated differently in those days . Not so in the 1970s when the concept of a traveling " freakshow " wouldn't have drawn an audience . Indeed it's highly unlikely any council would have allowed it to take place on the grounds of taste due to a public outcry . There's no way I'd pay to go and see that and I feel disgusted I watched a film where people with real deformaties are used in the name of entertainment . Perhaps the saddest one was " The skeleton woman " who looked like she'd just been rescued from a Nazi death camp . SPOILERS ( though how can I spoil your " enjoyment " of this filth is beyond me ) I've outlined a good enough reason not to watch it , but may I also point out that this film is also extremely sloppy and underdeveloped in terms of script and production too . For example the hero gets turned into a man eating plant and for no reason consumes a drunken passerby . I say for no reason because he can still control his human emotions which he demonstrated in the previous scene by talking to his girlfriend and demonstrates it again at the end by attacking the villain in his lab . And this action scene seems to have been directed , edited and had make - up artists by people who were too untalented to have worked on the worst school play production . Still it could have been worse , if the rest of the film is anything to go by the production crew might have dug up a decomposed corpse and used that for the villain's death scene . And get ready for a final shock plot twist at the end though how can anyone be shocked by the final scene when we've already seen exploitation of the worst sort leaves me pondering . You're probably asking yourself why I decided to watch THE MUTATIONS all the way through instead of switching it off in disgust ? Make no mistake this film did disgust and disturb me . Well it did star a pre-fame Tom Baker as Donald Pleasence's henchman . I can watch anything with Baker in it and to see him play a nasty piece of work does have a certain novelty value Check out VAULT OF TERROR ) , but even that didn't stop wanting to swith off the TV frequently . And for my sins I had to get into a warm soapy bath afterwards and scrub myself clean , That's how much THE MUTATIONS disgusted me
Is This A Family Comedy ?	You have to worry about how some producers market a movie . ACE VENTURA PET DETECTIVE is a case in point . It's about a detective who loves animals , he keeps all sorts of furry and feathered friends in his house and there's nothing more family friendly than a movie featuring lovely animals , you can just see the little ones begging mom and dad to take them to the cinema to see this movie . Just to hammer the point home the main plot centres around a dolphin mascot being kidnapped and there's nothing more heartbreaking to a family audience than a dolphin in peril So with got a set up and plot that Walt Disney would have been proud of and what do the producers do ? They decide to inject lots of crude humour into it . I was going to write " Crude adult humour " but it's not even sophisticated enough to reach the standards of adult . Are there any adults who think references to veneral disease are funny ? Will children get the in jokes to THE CRYING GAME ? I should hope not . Bizarrely the BBC decided to show this earlier today at a traditional family slot in the early evening which proves the BBC know as little about movies as the average Hollywood producer That's bad enough but what really disgusted me is that ACE VENTURA PET DETECTIVE turned Jim Carrey into a film star . Now that is unforgivable
Happiness Is A Warm Gun . . . .	. . . . Sang both The Beatles and The Breeders and after seeing this black comedy I thought sticking a gun in my mouth would be more preferable than sitting through this movie . What's it about ? Well some of it follows a man ( I use that word in its loosest sense of course ) who likes to have mono-sex while talking on the phone to women who he randomly calls and some it follows a man who has a sexual fixation on children , gawd and I thought JEEPERS CREEPERS was disturbing . I should also point out that I never watched the end of the movie as I switched off half way through wich may invalidate this review , but bare in mind that many people from a mainstream audience will be also be very uncomfortable with the subject matter Film tutor legend Dov S Simens is on record as saying never ever pitch a film script as a black comedy because it's such a vague expression and after seeing a myriad of indie black comedy movies I fully agree with him . Got a weird unentertaining script ? Just call it a black comedy and no one will notice , and no one will produce it either hopefully
" Anyone Can Put Terrorism On The Screen " . . . .	. . . . Indeed they can sir , same as anyone can put a crap movie on the screen too , but to be able to a film as gut wrenchingly bad as BURN HOLLYWOOD BURN onto the screen must have been the work of an insane genius . Think about the premise for a moment - It's a mockumentary featuring director Alan Smithee , it's a mockumentary , a mock documentary , so why bother to cast well known faces like Eric Idle and Ryan O Neal etc in roles ? The reason SPINAL TAP worked so well is because the audience believed they were watching a real documentary about a real heavy metal band from Britain , no one is going to be fooled by this movie which seems pointless
Part Lizard , Part Psycho , All Crap	The TV guide described the plot of SEVERED TIES as thus : " An experiment on a severed arm goes awry " so right away I thought this was going to be about an arm that's got a mind of its own as seen in THE BEAST WITH FIVE FINGERS or THE HAND or someone getting an arm transplant as in BODY PARTS . Both premises are tried and tested , or to be more accurate tired and tested so I was curious as to how the producers would approach the story . I actually thought they were making an arthouse movie like PI down to the use of B & W photography at the start of the film but the makers seemed to have tired of this approach after 20 seconds and decided to make a splatter comedy similar to THE EVIL DEAD . I've very little to say on this except that I disliked THE EVIL DEAD movies and I disliked SEVERED TIES and it seems really unfair that films like this use an obscene amount of rubber when the third world is crying out for condoms
Wow . Russell And Salma In The Same Movie . . .	. . . Was my initial reaction but BREAKING UP is a bit of a turkey . To all intents and purposes this is an inferior WHEN HARRY MET SALLY for a younger generation . It's episodic and never feels convincing , but the worst criticism I have is that the two stars never shine on screen . Maybe if Crowe's character beat up a few people while all Salma's scenes revolved lying on top of that body builder in the gym it would have been more watchable ?
I Can't Believe The High Rating	Heist movies play out in an identical formula : Character A meets character B who introduces them to character C . They pull off a scam and it becomes a race for characters A , B and C to stab each other in the back The only difference between PERFECT Friday and other heist movies is that this one is possibly the worst directed one of the lot . Watch the scene near the start when Britt is introduced to Mr Hall in the bank . There supposed to be facing each other but by some ridiculous editing it looks like they're talking to each other's backs when the camera cuts between them . I also couldn't help noticing the poor sound editing which makes every interior scene sound like it was filmed in an empty room regardless of the location Even people who liked this movie mention Peter Hall's bizarre directing . I'm not mentioning it - I'm complaining about and helps make an already boring and unlikely story unwatchable , and I'm shocked that PERFECT Friday has an average user rating of 6 . 9
Pretentious Rubbish	If like me you live in Britain and stay up late you often find obscure films being shown on Channel 4 . One night I stayed up and by chance watched BENT . After I watched I realised I should try going to bed earlyBENT starts off bizarrely with transvestites parading around one of which is Sir Mick Jagger so I was expecting a sort of camp version of CABARET , but explicit scenes of gay sex followed and after that the film descended into a very pretentious and obvioulsy stage based drama where Clive Owen looks grim faced and keeps repeating " This can't be happening " over and over again . And despite what other reviewers have said about this film I found myself feeling nothing except terminal boredom . In short this is the type of film that ruins the British film industry but which Britain continues to make despite a very limited market . And no I'm not being homophobic . If the characters had been , Jews , Slavs , trade unionists , communists or any other type of victim of Nazism I would still have hated this film
Put The Brakes On This	Ah yes disaster movies a favourite film genre of the 1970s when megastars and prestigious character actors would all slum together on a film featuring lots of exciting and spectacular deaths . RUNAWAY is a disaster movie ( Well TVM ) from the 1970s but suffers from three major flaws : 1 ) There's no megastars 2 ) With the exception of Ben Johnson there's no prestigious character actors 3 ) There's very little in the way of spectacular or exciting deathsIn many ways RUNAWAY is like THE CASSANDRA CROSSING without the megastars , prestigious character actors or shootouts . Oh well it could have been worse - It could have lasted a lot longer than 70 minutes
Plot ? What Plot ?	What's the point this film is trying to make ? I don't get it , a woman comes round to a man's house , they have sex and boy are they having sex , man follows the woman around and that's basically it . Is there a plot involved ? No . Are the characters sympathetic ? No . Would you want to watch this with your family ? No . Would you want to watch this on your own ? I know some people would but they'd only be watching for the sex scenes know what I mean ? INTIMACY is really an art house porn film that has no redeeming features for anyone who watches films for entertainment purposes and is especially frustrating for budding screenwriters who find their scripts turned down because " The plot is underdeveloped " . At least the scripts I've written had a plot
Not THE BREAKFAST CLU	A few people on this page have compared SECRETS to a sort of Aussie 60s version of THE BREAKFAST CLUB but I have to steadfastly disagree . THE BREAKFAST CLUB was one of those productions that Hollywood used to churn out in the mid 1980s in order to sell a few records . SECRETS has an entirely different feel to it , in many ways it feels neither like a cynical marketing excersise nor a feature film but more like a theater play , and even though I haven't bothered to check I'm probably right in saying SECRETS started life off as a play . Check out the character of Randolf who starts off by speaking in a scouse accent then when he gets found out reverts to an Australian accent . This type of deliberate internal logic gaffe is not uncommon in stage plays since it gives actors the chance to show off a bit and of course the story is entirely low concept just like you'd expect from a stage play . This is a very uncinematic movie and the director seems to be lost in what to do with the characters . Check out the early scenes where Didi sits alone drawing . She's been down the basement with Danny but neither of them have said two words to one another . Very difficult to believe . But I guess the selling point to this movie is more to do with the music of The Beatles rather than character interaction but the music featured here is of the band's early stuff and I much prefer their later materialAs a strange footnote last year Paul McCartney's daughter Stella was married on the island of Bute where I live . We had some really big name celebs like Madonna and Gyneth Paltrow over for the wedding and the local population were totally star struck just like the characters in this film . Quite pathetic really
Was This Ever A HELLRAISER Sequel ?	Director of FIST OF THE NORTH STAR Tony Randel and screenwriter Peter Atkins were the two men who made HELLBOUND : HELLRAISER 2 . They were also the two men responsible for making that movie an incoherent mess , a good description of this movie too since I had no idea what this movie was supposed to be about or indeed where the plot was going and that was despite much voice over exposition . After seeing the movie I can't explain what on earth it is about I do have a sort of sneaky suspicion that Peter Atkins may have originally written FIST OF THE NORTH STAR as a HELLRAISER sequel . I can just imagine that there's been sort of disaster ( I'm not talking about the disaster that is this script ) where mankind has finally been defeated by the Cenobites and it's up to a mystical hero to confront Pinhead and save the wretched survivors of humanity from his evil clutches . That might have been a good plot , even if it wasn't it still would have been a plot of some description , there's no evidence that I can see that this movie has a plotAs a lot of other people on this page I noticed this pile of crap was marketed as " A martial arts action story " so right away I was expecting a Chuck Norris or Steven Segal type plot of people getting punched on the nose and falling down is a very violent manner but not even my own low expectations prepared me for the unconvincing manner of the fights where a whole torso changes shape due to the impact of the punch , and of course a bad guy with a gun watches his fellows getting killed in unarmed combat and never thinks of shooting the good guy . I also couldn't help noticing that despite being well buffed the hero is in some dire need of acting lessons , everytime he is called to give a pained expression it looks like he's having an orgasm I would have given FIST OF THE NORTH STAR but I awarded it an extra point because of the ironic dialogue such as when Malcolm Mcdowell says " I remember before my body died " I shouted out " I remember before your career died " and the scene where Chris Penn " shouts " let's kill someone " I shouted back " Let's start with the producer , the director , the screenwriter . . . " Oh and there's a scene where a character says " You're already dead " which led me to believe it's a line stolen from HELLBOUND reinforcing my suspicion that this was a HELLRAISER sequel at one point
Based On An Unpublished Stephen King Story . . . .	. . . . And after seeing this pile of crap you won't be surprised that it wasn't published ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! This is a terrible movie by any standards but when I point out that it's one of the worst movies that has the name Stephen King in the credits you can start to imagine how bad it is . The movie starts of with two characters staring open mouthed at a scene of horror : " My god . What happened here ? " " I don't know but they sure hate cats " The camera pans to the outside of a house where hundreds of cats are strung up dead and mutilated . Boy this guy is right , someone does hate cats and with a deduction like that he should be a policeman . Oh wait a minute , he is a policeman and when a movie starts with a cop making an oh so obvious observation you just know you're going to be watching a bad movie The reason SLEEPWALKERS is bad is that it's very illogical and confused . We eventually find out the monsters of the title need the blood of virgins to survive . Would they not be better looking for a virgin in the mid west bible belt rather than an American coastal town ? Having said that at least we know of the monsters motives - That's the only thing we learn . We never learn how they're able to change shape or are able to make cars become invisible and this jars with the ending that seems to have been stolen from THE TERMINATOR . Monster mother walks around killing several cops with her bare hands or blowing them up via a police issue hand gun ( ! ) but if her monster breed is immune from police fire power then why do the creatures need the ability to change shape or become invisible ? The demise of the creatures is equally ill thought out as there killed by a mass attack of household cats . If they can be killed by cats then why did the monsters not kill all the cats that were lying around the garden ? There was a whole horde of moggies sitting around but the monsters never thought about killing them . I guess that's so the production team can come up with an ending . It was that they started the movie my complaint lies We're treated to several scenes where famous horror movie directors like John Landis , Clive Barker and even Stephen King make cameos . I think the reason for this is because whenever a struggling unknown actor read the script they instantly decided that no matter what , they weren't going to appear in a movie this bad so Stephen King had to phone up his horror buddies in order to fill out the cast . That's how bad SLEEPWALKERS is Unbelievable as it seems that wasn't the worst line in the movie . The worst line is - " That cat saved my life "
One Of The Worst British Horror Movies Ever	Sorry to disappoint all the reviewers who think this is an intentionally funny film - It's not . I read in a horror magazine that the script for SPLIT SECOND ( Which strangely did rather well at the US box office ) was originally written as a serial killer on the loose in LA . This would explain why none of this film makes absolutely any sense whatsoever . The worst bits are ( CONTAINS SPOILERS ) Dick Durkin . Never ever call a character Dick Durkin . It's a name that belongs in a porn filmDirk gets blown through a top floor window with a shotgun and the audience think he's dead . Then he magically appears in the next scene where it's revealed he survived due to wearing a bullet proof vest ! How did he survive the fall ? parachute ? Why would the monster shoot Durkin in the first place ? It's spent the movie tearing out hearts . More importantly how could it shoot a shotgun when its hands are obviously incapable of getting to grips with a gun ?
Even RAMBO Was Better	Former ' Nam veteran goes back into the jungle to save American POWs from nasty commie scum . Hey didn't Sly Stallone . . . . ? Believe it or not this film managed to offend me more than RAMBO : FIRST BLOOD PART 2 . Both films show the Vietnamese as being cruel , stupid incompetent communist vermin but MIA shows a Vietnamese general begging for his life like a sobbing schoolgirl . I've read a lot about the war in South East Asia from a myriad of American sources , everything from Jane Fonda to Soldier Of Fortune magazine and there's many different angles as to what observers thought of the VC but they all agree on one thing - There were no cowards in the Viet Cong . I was also taken aback with seeing the concept of the Vietnamese secret police travelling to Thailand to bump off our hero like an oriental KGB , sorry but I was under the impression the Vietnamese just wanted to be left alone and wouldn't have the inclination to bump off Americans in foreign lands , but why let reality get in the way of a film that screams America good , pinko commie scum bad . When this film was released in 1984 more than a third of the world's population lived under a communist system . You've got to wonder if there's a connection between the two
Very Unlikable	Oh dear , a thriller about a deranged man who kidnaps children . What's not to like ? Apart from the premise you mean ? Three other things1 ) Dream sequences - The film drowns in these sequences . Someone dreams they're being murdered and they wake it and discover it was all a bad dream . I was actually shocked that the ending didn't revolve around the cop out ending but that would have been just too obvious . It should also be pointed out that because of these sequences the narrative ends up confusing the audience . For example a couple commit adultery by having sex in a woods but they have sex for a ridiculous amount of time which led me to believe it was another dream . But it wasn't . At least I don't think it was . Oh I'm so confused 2 ) John Lithgow's performance - Oh dear . Remember Jon Voight in ANACONDA ? I think Voight based his performance on Lithgow's style in this movie3 ) Brian De Palma's direction - CARRIE was very memorable due to De Palma's slow motion photography , his tracking shots and characters talking without any dialogue being heard . However it seems that he's a one trick pony . Nearly all his films contain this idiosyncratic technique , THE FURY contained it as did DRESSED TO KILL and THE UNTOUCHABLES and CASUALTIES OF WAR was almost ruined by it and here it's totally unnecessary . I should also point out that a pram features in the climax like it did in THE UNTOUCHABLES . Time to move onto some other directing style Mr De Palma
Yawn	I hated the original XTRO but I did recognise there's something bizarrely unique about it and that it does have a cult following , but there's nothing unique about this " Sequel " it's just an ALIENS clone with only Paul Koslo treating the film with the contempt it deserves . In fact it's not even bad enough to be good which explains this very short review
Seen It All Before	Space debris falls from the sky and begins to infect people by controlling them . Where have I seen that plot before ? let me see now THE PUPPET MASTERS , THE BLOB , THE THING , the first three QUATERMASS serials , INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS and umpteen DOCTOR WHO stories . It's impossible not to be reminded of these stories while watching INVASION . It's also impossible not to be reminded that they all did the same story a whole lot better than INVASION did also
The Horror	To say this is a JAWS rip off does not do justice as to how bad this is , in fact the only compatant bits are the monster P . O . V shots stolen from the JAWS franchise . This is film making at its absolute nadir , it'd be impossible to make a film worse than this on purpose . Everyone has already commented the mistakes like the American ambulances and the god awful ( Non ) Scottish accents , the poor acting etc , but has anyone mentioned the goof that dynamite ISN'T freely avalaible in Scotland ? Or that the police uniforms aren't the same ones seen in Scotland ? And has anyone pointed out how poor the dialogue is ? " A lotta people want you out of here " Aye Scottish film goers obviously " You not wanted round here here " Aye definately scottish film goers " I'm really sorry for what happened " No doubt said by everyone involved in the making of this tripe " I could do better with a ( A high St brand of camera ) " No doubt said by everyone who's seen this tripe . Also notice the product placement . So that's how this film was funded " We need something that'll keep us in work " Subtle post modernist excuse for making this tripe " We don't need any help round here " Oh no ? What about acting lessons , screenwriting classes , film school etc ? " Why don't you go back to the States to find bigfoot or Elvis Pressley ? " Maybe they could also find a decent script , director , editor , producer and actors while they're there " Sheep got a headache ? " Oh right like the Welsh , Aussies and New Zealanders the Jocks are sheep lovers are they ? Doubt if anyone in this film would have the guts to say that in Scotland especially after watching this tripe it's obvious they have no idea where ScotlandPS A flock of sheep with headaches could have made a better film than this
One Pilot That Deserved To Crash	Interesting to see that a lot of people liked this when they were kids . I first saw it one Saturday night in the late 1970s and actually liked it . After a gap of over 25 years I saw it again this afternoon and thought it absolutely sucked The very first scene features a special effect that wouldn't have been allowed on the very worst episode of DOCTOR WHO . Then we're shown our hero Adm Michael Matthews being introduced along with his bevy of bimbo office babes . I sure did appricated that in the mid 21st century all woman must wear mini dresses but I'm not sure Adm Matthews does . I mean this guy is a bit gay isn't he ? Watch as he prances down steps and tries to be all mean and moody in a white jump suit . Hello sailor The production values are grim . There only seems to be three sets : the control room , the gold vault and a swimming tank with much of the action taking place via monitor screens . This is where CITY BENEATH THE SEA fails . It's a pilot about a city beneath the sea right ? So the producers have already exausted two plots from a totally limited concept . Mincing Matthews has to act fast ( And if you see any acting in this please let me know what scene it appeared in ) to stop some bad guys carrying out a theft and a meteor crashing in the city . I'm surprised it got beyond script stage to be honest
Hollywood At Its Worst	I wasted three hours of my life watching this crap . Sure as hell I won't be wasting too much time writing a long review . I hated this movie , it's so full of anachronisms and cliches and I'm so glad everyone else has pointed them out , but the two ones that made me laugh were Josh Hartnett announcing " World War Two has just started " . Hey since the second world war started more than two years before in September 1939 you just know this is from an American ( Read Hollywood ) perspective , not that it was called " World War Two " for a considerable time afterwards , and the scenes where Gooding Jnr bellows " Yo who's da man ? " Yo right on bro you zap those Jap mofos with your 90s street vocabulary . Most excellent dudeI did like the bit where Ben Affleck screams " Get me into a goddamn plane " because I thought the producers and screenwriter had used up every cliche in the book by that point . Nice to be proved wrong , though I don't think I'll be proved wrong when I say Affleck will never win an Oscar for his acting ability . My heart had a nice little holiday when I found out this flopped both commercially and critically . Maybe now the Hollywood system can concentrate on making films with good scripts and little FX before they bankrupt themselves . Though having said that if anyone in Hollywood is thinking of making a blockbuster as ridiculous as this or TITANIC based on I'd be quite happy to see Hollywood bankrupted
A Film So Silly It Will Make You Sick	! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! A man shoots the US president with a dart containing an infectious agent . What a stupid premise for a film . If someone wanted the president dead why didn't they shoot him with one of those old fashioned bullets made out of lead ? And just how easy would it be to shoot the president ? I know it's been done in real life but you'd think the security people would have noticed the muzzle of a gun poking out of a window 30 yards away . In fact wouldn't they have checked the buildings for snipers beforehand ? From the start I was convinced the bad guys were going to be right wing militia types but in a shock twist it turns out the villains are an IRA man and an American woman and for once it's not the Irishman who's the dumb one . Boy is this woman stupid , if she was good looking she'd be a bimbo . In fact it's impossible to take seriously the whole idea that an idiot like this would be able to engineer such a virus , especially when the script points out that not even the defence department has the resources to create such a virus . But it gets worse ( No small feat ) when it's revealed that ugly American woman has got an antidote to the virus ( Like I said it's no small feat the way this film degenerates ) so Irishman phones the president to tell him if he gets $100 million the president gets the antidote . But the president turns down the offer because " The United States doesn't negoiate with terrorists " Now let's think about this , the president has been told his organs will slowly dissolve due to the virus and when offered something to stop this happening he turns it down on principle ! You do get the feeling this American president isn't based on Dubya , or Clinton , or any American president , or any politician ever . It's also difficult not to notice that in real life leaders and former leaders of the IRA , Irgun , Stern gang , EOKA , PLO , UVF and ANC have all shaken hands with the American president . Oh and don't think that because the Irishman and Ms ugly bimbo want one hundred million big ones the president will suddenly decide they're blackmailers and not terrorists and give them what they thereby saving his principals . No sir this is the president of the United States after all , he'd rather dissolve than give in . Luckily the villains die and the president is saved . Sure you still want to see it ?
It's Enough To Make You Turn To Drink	The premise for this story involves a bunch of people stuck in a snowbound location where they get killed one by one . How original . And being a Stallone movie I wasn't expecting much but D-TOX lived down to all my low hopes . What we have is a dumb , very dumb , reworking of THE THING with lots of paranoid people running around saying rude words and pointing guns at each other . Oh and I haven't even mentioned some serious plotholes . I fail to feel much sympathy for Sly . The one person I did feel sorry for was Tom Berenger in a completely underwritten role and I'm at a loss as to how a once famous convincing tough guy actor now appears in garbage like this . D-TOX was filmed in 1999 but didn't get released untill 2002 . That sums up how bad it is
Terrible Attempt At Comedy	It was Jon Pertwee who said " It's very difficult to be funny but very easy to be silly " . Well if that's the case PASTY FACES is " Very easy " . David Baker ( As Director / Screenwriter ) and his cast seem to be under the impression that comedy involves stealing scenes and style from superior Britcoms like LOCK STOCK . . and TRAINSPOTTING , using a completely underdeveloped script and jumping up and down speaking in a very fast voice very loudly . Alan McCaffrey especially suffers from this type of OTT performance but not enough to ruin the film because there's not enough of a film to ruin . PASTY FACES is terrible on all fronts especially scriptwise . I couldn't understand why it ended the way it did , it just seemed to stop in a very abrupt and silly manner . Oh and other glaring errors are that you need a visa to visit the USA and a green card in order to work there - This film would have you believe you can get off a plane and start a new life in America without any authorisation - that you still get paid to donate blood in America - People who I know in America , and who donate blood tell me payment for donations stopped several years ago - and that you can buy any type of weapon from a gun shop . As far as I know gun laws in America differ from state to state but no gun shops sell anti tank guns over the counter . So we've got a very erroneous view of America from a very unreal and oh so unfunny film . Maybe this is revenge for BRAVEHEART a very Hollywood view of the Scots ? Perhaps , but this doesn't stop PASTY FACES from being a crap comedy
It Was Hell To Sit Through	The TV guide said this involved " Sex , aliens and killer bees " so I canceled everything to watch it . After doing so I decided the only thing I'd be canceling in future was the TV guide MILD SPOILERS Writing out a brief premise of the plot it reads like something from THE X-FILES : An ultra secret government organization comes across aliens infiltrating the human race , but that's where any similarities with the classic TV show ends . THE X - FILES was a good show ( At least to start with ) but HELL SWARM is an incomprehensible mess that starts off like an MTV music video , has scenes which led me to believe it was sending itself up , but then becomes utterly dead pan and starts to rip off other superior sources like UNIVERSAL SOLDIER , SECONDS , a bit of DOCTOR WHO and a lot of THE X - FILES . Oh and considering this crap is called HELL SWARM the killer bees only feature very briefly at the endSorry but - Unlike THE SWARM - it's not even good enough to be bad so give it a miss
The Flesh Is Weak - So's The Rest Of This Movie	! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! I guess on paper the plot of SAINT SINNER resembles a sort of supernatural TERMINATOR with a 19th century monk goiing forward to the 21st century to pursue a couple of succubi , but the 19th century lacks any sense of time and place and the characters seem to be played as though they're a bunch of 21st century flatmates , seriously they are which meant I couldn't take them seriously As bad as that is it's when the succubi get to the 21st century things really fall apart . You see these two demonic women have got a litle sideline of working as prostitutes to ensnare men . Fair enough you might say everyone has to earn a living , but unless you've seen SAINT SINNER you've no idea how ridiculous this is because the succubi seem to be covered in a slimy gel and there's no way any man would pay good money to have sex with them . In fact I'd have thought everyman they came across would have paid good money NOT to have sex with them because they're totally gross looking . Of course men paying good money not to have sex with them would have interfered with the plot ( But not with logic ) so we have several bizarre sequences of the gruesome twosome earning some money and killing their victims , but the most unconvincing scene is the bit where the succubi kill a policeman . What's unconvincing about it Theo ? Well it involves the cop getting his spinal column pulled out of his neck and the succubi sucking on it . This happens on a ferris wheel at a crowded funfair where no one notices anything amiss , and no I'm not making this upI once had high hopes for Clive Barker who made my all time favourite horror movie HELLRAISER but after seeing this garbage I'm left believing HELLRAISER was a total fluke on the part of Barker
Gave Me A Headache	The opening scene of 13 GHOSTS instantly reminded me of umpteen other sources . The scrapyard reminded me of Freddy's resurrection in NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 3 , and with the involvement of a secret paramilitary organisation I couldn't help but be reminded of these pre credit hooks in THE X-FILES . An ethereal voice ? Well fill in your own favourite voice from nowhere film moment . As the film continued I wasn't really reminded of any other movies but became very aware of what is wrong with expensive genre movies coming out of Hollywood studios these days : A big budget spent on set design and CGI FX with an uninteresting script that's completely empty on characterisation . That's not the major complaint on this movie , my major complaint is this : The amount of strobe lighting . It's very irresponsible of film makers to allow this . Even if you don't suffer from photo sensitive epilepsy - And if you do then do NOT under any circumstances watch this movie because it'll give you a fit - the amount of flashing lights between edits will give you a blinding headache , so much so you'll probably want to switch off the TV . Having said that even if there was no strobe lighting I would have been hard pressed not to turn off the TV anyway because this is one boring movie overflowing with crap CGI and wafer thin charactersOne last point - One of the characters is told to join Greenpeace in order to " Throw paint on womens ' fur coats " I wish to point out that as a former member of Greenpeace the organisation doesn't allow this type of violent behaviour . Nor does it allow critical free thinking which is why I'm a former member
One Of The Worst Sequels Ever Made	THE EXTERMINATOR is one of the most memorable films I've seen . Okay it's by no means a groundbreaking masterwork of cinema but it does appeal to the wish fufilment in human beings of wanting to rid the world of scum . EXTERMINATOR 2 is also memorable . That's because it's one of the worst films ever made . If you've never seen the original EXTERMINATOR then you'll find the sequel makes no sense at all and if you've seen the first film you'll find the sequel still doesn't make any sense . John Eastland goes around frying bad guys because . . . . well because their bad guys , there's no character development and there's a lack of internal continuity to all this since the feds were on his case at the end of the original , but here there's no spooks putting two and two together and realising it's the same vigilante killer , unless I've missed something the feds aren't involved at all . But what ruins this sequel is the completely OTT scenes and dialogue . ( ! ! ! ! POSSIBLE SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ) A scene featuring a robbery on a security van by gang X culminates in a police helicopter being shot down and a security guard being tied to a railway track and run over by an oncoming train ! Yes I'm sure that happens all the time . And the dialogue consists mainly of F words as in " I didn't f see that motherf's face man . The motherf had no f face man " . I don't know if he's doing it on purpose but Mario Van Peebles gives one of the most laughably bad performances I've ever seen as the main villain X , most notably at the climax where he struts around a disused factory stalking Eastland spouting lines like " You fought good Johnny but now you must die . Don't take it too hard Johnny we all come to an end one day " I noticed some reviewers have compared this film to DEATH WISH 3 . Please don't . DW3 is an enjoyable film that appeals to the vigilante in all of us . There is nothing to enjoy about EXTERMINATOR 2
Jackie Fans Only	In MR NICE GUY as it's called in Britain Jackie Chan plays a TV chef who finds himself caught up in intrigue involving gangsters and a missing video cassette . I say " intrigue " but that's maybe misleading because we are talking Jackie Chan here and as you would expect we are treated ( Another misleading word ) to Jackie's unique martial arts mixed in with comedy in a thread bare plot , a bit like Jean Claude Van Damme on laughing gas . The acting is fairly awful especially from the bad guys whose delivery led me to think English isn't their native tongue and acting wasn't their chosen profession . Sorry guys but I can only recommend MR NICE GUY to Chan fans
It's Not A Comedy	It's strange but a lot of people seem to be under the impression that this is a " comedy horror " but due to rather poor production values involving writing , directing and acting I cant help thinking the producers started the film off as a run of a mill horror film , realised it was going nowhere and rather cheekily decided to camp it up at the end . There's nothing at the start of RETURN OF THE LIVING DEAD PART 2 to indicate it's out of the ordinary ( It's rather cliched with kids in a graveyard and the usual stereotypes ) , and sticking in a Michael Jackson cameo right at the very end seems rather crass . Sorry guys you're not fooling me into thinking this was originally a comedy horror movie
The Info Button Was Wrong	After pressing the info button on my remote control the onscreen caption read : " Moody visuals , subterranean S & M clubs and Nazis in a stylish and inventive thriller " . It's not often the info button is accurate describing a film but it outdid itself in artistic license this time . " Moody visuals " means either people walking around in foggy sets in slo mo or vampires climbing up walls of foggy sets in slo mo , not to mention everything being filmed in a sickly yellow hue or sometimes a cold blue sepia in a homage to TRAFFIC though I somehow think this director didn't deserve an Oscar nomination . You'll also be disappointed to know that the S & M club is a fog shrouded dance floor where people stand around like dummies , no orgies here guys because it's set in a commie country . Er can anyone name me a single communist country in Europe ? There are Nazis involved but you don't really want to know about that , while worst of all the script tries to be clever by including injokes on characters names . Note to screenwriters : If you're going to be sophisticated try and write a sophisticated script firstSome other things I learned from this movie 1 ) American cops are very welcome in communist countries2 ) Ethnic minorities are very welcome in communist countries3 ) Everyone in Eastern Europe speaks American english and have English sounding names 4 ) If you escape from a Nazi death camp and freeze to death your eyelids still flicker hours after death 5 ) Communist countries employ American SWAT teams 6 ) A vampire's favourite film is THE MATRIX
I Watched This With My Parents ! ! ! ! ! !	One thing I remember when home video rental took off was people would hire films they'd never heard of , the only way you'd get an idea of what the film was like was reading the blurb on the back which often wouldn't do justice as to how bad the film was , and let me say no blurb could ever do justice as to how awful THE MAD FOXES is . The plot outline on the back gave the impression that it's an action thriller but doesn't state it's badly dubbed by people who are half asleep , or that the evil bikers are a bunch of 40 something overweight men most of whom seem to have a problem riding a motorcycle , or the fact that THE MAD FOXES doesn't really have a plot . Worst of all the blurb doesn't point out most of the running time is taken up with hardcore explicit sex scenes ! ! ! ! ! ! ! The video company who released this might have mentioned how much rumpo there was going to be in this movie as either a selling point or as a warning that it's not exactly a family film . Not only did I have the misfortune of watching this I had the misfortune of watching it with my parents and my dad had the sense of turning it off just as another sex scene was about to raise its head , namely the scene in the woods where the hero shoots at concorde and his girlfriend decides to undo his trousers , so I never found out how the film ended . I have to admit though I am curious as to how the film ended . Did the bikers turn up to fight the hero or did the film end on a massive sex session ?
It Ryhmes With The Word " Knight "	The plot for BLACK KNIGHT isn't all that different to a plot to a soft core porn film I once saw that starred Gabrielle Hall . Jamal Walker works in a theme park called Medievel World and by the power of magic finds himself back in not so merry olde England There's two things I wish to point out and that is the synopsis that mentions Jamal is knocked unconscious and finds himself in the 14th century is entirely misleading . Secondly any review that claims that this movie is is slightly better than being force fed ones excrement is also misleading Some people have mentioned that the major failing with this movie is that Martin Lawrence is playing an over blown version of himself . Hmmm and I guess if they cast Morgan Freeman as Jamal this would have been a multiple Oscar winner ? It's true that if you don't like Lawrence's brand of comedy you won't like this but is there anything good you can say about the movie ? The script has several credited screenwriters which is often the sign of a bad movie especially in comedy since the jokes here never ever work . One such scene is where Jamal gets a a bunch of medieval minstrels to play some funky Motown beats . It's a " joke " you can see coming a mile away and one that lacks credibility because instruments in those days wouldn't be able to sound like guitars or bass etc " But Theo you're missing the point , it's a comedy " No I'm not missing the point at all . For comedy to work there must be a type of internal logic and credibility . For example cast your mind back to BACK TO THE FUTURE where Marty plays rock and roll on his guitar and his audience are shocked because this brand of music is too radical for them and goes beyond their understanding of music . In this movie the King's court get with the program . Is it credible ? I'll tell you what it's not - it's not amusing There is another aspect to the screenplay which outlives its usefulness and that is the early stages of the film where Jamal is transported through time and space . Obviously we know that Jamal is really in 14th century England but he doesn't and that's where much of the alleged comedy arises from . But Jamal spends something like 20 minutes of the running time naively thinking he's in another 21st century theme park and the joke is stretched out for a ridiculously long length where it stops being funny , that's if it was funny in the first place Badly cast , badly written , badly made . Unless you think the phrase " Yo dawg " is the funniest thing you've ever heard stick to A KNIGHT'S TAL
Unlikable And Dumb	! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Nice to see some of the comments on this page point out that TWILIGHT MAN falls apart if you think about it too much . I'm amazed that more people haven't pointed out the ridiculous amount of plot holes since this one very dumb movie Tim Matheson plays Jordan Cooper whose home is under secret survillence by Hollis Dietz ( Dean Stockwell ) who has managed to hack into every aspect of Cooper's life and there's no explanation as to how a computer hacker managed to get all these hidden cameras into Cooper's home , in fact it's insinuated that if you're a computer expert you can hack into an electric alarm clock and turn it into a close circuit TV . Wow Bill Gates must know the ins and outs of my life in that case So any way Cooper goes on the run after being falsely accused of murder with Dietz on his trail and we're treated to more and more unlikely events and dialogue one example being when Cooper needs information from a woman whose husband experienced the same thing she says " I'm sure you're a very nice young man " . Young man ? I looked up Mastheson's profile on this site and he was born in 1947 which makes him 49 years old when this movie was made which is hardly young . I guess the producers had a much younger actor in mind for the lead but no one bothered to modify the dialogue after Matheson was cast . There's also a ridiculous plot twist later one in the scene where Cooper spots a photograph of a woman who turns out to be his mother . The script is full of these unlikely coincidences , but perhaps the most unlikely event is when Cooper meets a woman on a train which leads to them getting a room together ( We'd all holiday in America if its women were that sociable ) and she asks him if he really killed his girlfriend . Cooper says he didn't and she believes him - Until news reports claim Cooper may be a serial killer and it's only then she phones the police which led me to ask why she thought he was innocent of one murder but not several others ? So we've got a dumb movie that is obviously inspired by THE FUGITIVE . I didn't like this movie at all due to umpteen unexplained occurances
No Wonder It Has Such A Low Mark	When you're watching the Zone Horror Channel you're not expecting much in the way of masterpieces . The channel shows an incredible amount of rubbish and much of it is barely watchable rubbish . Add this movie to being amongst the worst of the worst Zone horror has to offerCARNIVOROUS starts off with a bunch of people waking up in a cavern . At this very early point I was expecting to be watching SAW crossed with THE DESCENT and in some ways it is somewhat similar to the Neil Marshall movie in that people have to run for their lives in a cave like prison being stalked all the time by murderous monsters . This is bad enough but then the movie takes on a life of its own featuring ridiculous supernatural , metaphysical nonsense Regardless of how good or bad its narrative strengths or weaknesses might have been the production values are outstandingly poor . Most of the set is composed of a green screen , the CGI monsters are astoundingly poor but worst of all is the cinematography - everything is so dimly lit that it's almost impossible to see what's happening on screen but when you're watching a movie this bad it's a relief of sorts
Brain Dead	MILD SPOILERS Catherine Oxenberg plays Sarah McKinney , an abused spouse whose husband is shot dead by their infant son and is sent to jail for the killing where she is forced to become a stripper at a sleazy club . What's that you're shouting at me ? Oh you're calling me a liar and saying I've just made up the plot for this film . No , I'm not , that's the plot of TIME SERVED . I know it makes absolutely no sense and leads to a very poor movie but things like common sense have been ignored in order to bring us a lot of T & A . Do you like T & A ? Do you like bloody stupid films with lots of plot holes ? Do you like to see once respected actors like Bo Hopkins and Louise Fletcher make fools of themselves ? Do you like cliches ? Then you will love TIME SERVED I hated this movie
1960s Crap	I live on an island which means a half hour journey on a ferry to travel to the mainland . One morning several years ago I bumped into a chap I knew called Derek who was doing a media course at college . Derek decided to show me his work from the course and one of his essays was on the 1966 film BLOWUP . " Blowup " I said to Derek " That's utter crap " I've absolutely no idea why but so many of the reviewers on this page have also done media / film making courses that use BLOWUP as an example of film making , I've got to ask in all seriousness - Is BLOWUP used as an example on how NOT to make a good movie ? What I really hate about it is that there is absolutely no substance to the movie . David Hemmings plays a photographer called Thomas who smokes hash , has sex with a model , sees some mime artists driving past , smokes some more hash , has sex with a couple of models , smokes some more hash and sees some mime artists driving past again . That's it , that's the plot of the movie and don't be fooled by the promotional con trick that states this is a murder thriller because this is only a minor subplot that really goes nowhere . To tell the truth BLOWUP is a load of 1960s crap made by pretentious snobs who were no doubt looking down their noses at commercial British blockbusters like ZULU , ALFIE and the James Bond movies . It also contains just about the worst ending I've ever seen in a British movie . As for Derek I think he's working in a hotel somewhere in England . So if I were you I'd be very careful about doing a media / film course that uses BLOWUP as an example of film making because you might find yourself having a career in the hotel trade . Worse , you might find yourself working as a mime artist
Too Crude And No Cohesion	Who said romance is dead ? Probably the same idiot who said the British film industry of 2000 was in successful form . BORN ROMANTIC proves that it wasn't and for the last ten tears Britain has been making far too many of these underdeveloped flops . For every FULL MONTY or 28 DAYS LATER there's about ten THE LIFE OF STUFF , THE SLAB BOYS and IT WAS AN ACCIDENT gathering dust on a distributers shelf I will give writer / director David Kane some praise for assembling a cast that includes some very well known faces , alas I have to criticise him as a screenwriter . First off who's the movie aimed at ? Is it for lads sitting at home with their mates with a lot of beer or is it for girls who want to watch a rom com with their friends ? There's no way lads are going to watch anything that's been marketed as a romance featuring people doing the salsa while the chicks are going to be put off by the graphic descriptions of oral sex etc . Come on when has oral sex had anything to do with romance ? . That last line was tongue in cheek but you know what I'm saying . BORN ROMANTIC did have some potential but as well as rather crude humour it also lacks anytype of cohesion , it's just a bunch of not very related sub plots involving characters who attend a salsa class with the characters being sad , lonely unlikeable people . In the hands of Jack Rosenthal or William Trevor the premise might have led to a touching rom com but here it fails . I also couldn't help noticing it was made far too late to cash in on the success of STRICTLY BALLROOM BORN ROMANTIC is Mike Leigh meets Richard Curtis without any of the skill of either and how can you make a movie featuring a Scotsman with a bi-sexual girlfriend without casting John Leslie in the role ?
A Bad Idea	The problem with THE SLAB BOYS is the limited appeal . It's based on a stage play - And boy does it show with its static locations - set in a Paisley dye factory in the late 1950s . I know Paisley fairly better than the majority of IMDB members because I used to shop there for clothes , but watching a film about a Paisley factory won't appeal to me , in fact I doubt if it'll appeal to anyone in Paisley . Not seeing through this flaw the producers tried to market THE SLAB BOYS as a musical by having " Hot " Scottish acts like The Proclaimers and Lulu do cover versions of songs from the 1950s for the soundtrack . So let me see the producers were hoping that teenagers would flock to the cinema to watch the film and then rush out and buy the soundtrack which features 50s pop songs by The Proclaimers and Lulu ? Teenagers ? The Proclaimers and Lulu ? I think I can spot a flaw in this cunning marketing idea I remember reading in the Scottish press that THE SLAB BOYS cost three million pounds to produce and only made a little over thirteen thousand pounds at the UK box office . The reason it made so little money is obviously because of its limited appeal , but unless you know a bit about film producing you'll be confused as to how it cost so much to make since it has only a few sets and a small cast . The answer to that is simple , most of the budget went on the copyright of having artists do cover versions of songs . The Proclaimers ? Lulu ? I'm sure they enjoyed their pay day
Spielberg By Proxy	THE LOVE LETTER was made the studio Dreamworks . Do you know who founded Dreamworks ? Steven Spielberg . THE LOVE LETTER stars Kate Capshaw as the main protagonist . Do you know who Kate Capshaw is married to in real life ? Steven Spielberg . I couldn't help pointing this out because despite having no on screen credit there does seem to be a heavy Spielberg influence in this movie . While this wouldn't have been a bad thing if it involved either genocide , the D-Day landings or a great white shark the influences seem to be composed of Spielberg flaws like heavy weepy sentiment , sugar coated characters and scenes that go on a tad too long not to mention setting the movie in that middle American town called Dullsville . Was anyone reminded of ET watching this slow paced , boring romantic drama ? YAWN . It is interesting to note that many people were bored senseless by this and that they've written very short reviews . It was a problem for me both trying to stay awake watching THE LOVE LETTER and trying to say anything of note in my review . I can only recommend this movie to cure insomnia
What Strange Names	! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! There's two things that guarantee you're going be watching a really bad movie . One is the name Victor Salva appearing in the credits and the other is the movie starting off in a way that seems to go against the movie's title . Take CROCODILE 2 : DEATH SWAMP , with a title like that you'd expect either a crocodile or a swamp in the opening hook wouldn't you ? Well you'd be wrong because this film starts with a bank robbery . But it's not just any bank , no siree , it's a bank where all the staff and customers are named Motherfer as in " Hand over he money Motherfer , on the ground Motherfer , don't look at me Motherfer " . One thing that puzzled me about the robbers - Apart from them knowing everyone was named Motherfer - was that they had a broad range of accents , but it's suggested they're in a band . Or something . Whatever . So the robbers ( And what a great name for a band ) decide to go on tour and hijack a plane which is in extremely poor taste . Before September 11 2001 it was only bad movies that featured people hijacking planes , post there's something offensive about this plot line . Oh and strangely all the passengers and crew in this aircraft are also called Motherfer . Can someone in the States send me a private message and tell me how common the name Motherfer is ? because that seems to be the only name the characters in this film are called . After the plane crashes ( Hope I didn't spoil any plot twists there ) the survivors start getting eaten one by one by a crocodile and guess what its name is ? That's right it's called Motherfer too . You really have to worry about the screenwriters naming every single character - Human or otherwise - with the exact same name . I do have one good thing to say about CROCODILE 2 : DEATH SWAMP and that is Heidi Lenhart looks great in a bikini One Shocking Trivia Point : The crocodile realization in this film was achieved via a combination of CGI and a rubber dummy . I'm sure no one noticed this untill I pointed it out
One Of The Worst Courtroom Dramas Ever Made	If you're still unsure that Hollywood execs have no creative ideas then get yourself a time machine and go back to the early to mid 1990s to a time when nearly every studio release was composed of a " person from hell movie 2 be they a doctor , a cop , a flatmate , a jilted lover etc who would terrorize an innocent or not so innocent victim . When cinema goers weren't putting with that crap we also had to put up with BASIC INSTINCT clones . BODY OF EVIDENCE was probably the most infamous clone mainly down to the fact that it's both unoriginal and painfully bad . The worst aspect is the script which lacks any type of sense or logic or decent dialogue . Yeah the lines are memorable all right but for the wrong reasons . Take this line of dialogue for example : " Have you ever watched animals making love ? " Does anyone else feel their mind boggle at such a ridiculous comment ? Animals making love ? Is that why there's so many insects in the world - They're the most romantic creatures on Earth ? Madonna is one of the great female icons of the 20th century but she is no actress . Madonna's performance is the second worst aspect of the movie . It's so bad that other well respected actors like Archer , Moore , Defoe and Prochnow sink to her levelSimply one of the worst courtroom dramas ever made
Producers Should Show Teenagers More Respect	The problem I had with GET OVER IT was that it's marketed for a teenage audience . There's nothing wrong with this in principle ( Though I have to confess with some bitterness that it's been nearly twenty years since I last qualified as a teenager ) it's just that the marketing seems to have taken up more of the studio's time than the movie itself For a comedy GET OVER IT fails simply because the jokes fall flat . We're treated to a sequence involving an audition which was probably unamusing at the time and after seeing the early editions of American IDOL , POP IDOL and THE X FACTOR comes across even less amusing in late 2004 . The direction of this movie is uninspired , the jokes lame and the acting very poor and all throughout GET OVER IT I got the instinctive impression that because it's a teenage comedy the producers thought that any crap would be enough to carry the movie . You make a teenage comedy devoid of any angst ? Where's the logic in that ? After seeing this turkey this former teenager wished he'd rather have watched Ray Winstone in SHE'S GONE which was being shown on the other side
A Terrible And Meaningless Narrative	BEING HUMAN starts with two off screen characters in conversation with each other which does give the movie an unwanted light hearted tone . We're then introduced to Hector ( Robin Williams ) who is looking after his two children in a period of history that feels like the dark ages . Then a ship sails into view which heralds danger . It was at this point that I thought the story was going to revolve around Hector and his children so it's a shock to the system when later on in the movie the action switches to a shipwreck in the 16th century which again features Williams character . I could forgive this because the shipwreck story is so compelling with dozens of people facing certain death because all their supplies are running out and they're a very long way from any type of civilisation . My heart was in my mouth wondering how these poor people were going to survive . We will never know how because the action then cuts to modern day America with Hector going through a divorceSo there you go three stories linked by someone played by Robin Williams that have no real connection with one another and I felt totally disgusted by the middle story featuring the shipwreck that comes to a complete halt without any type of resolution . Talk about feeling cheated . I should also point out that if the subtext of this movie is supposed to reflect what it's like to be human then surely the characters and situations on screen don't accurately reflect this . In fact there's something arrogant about the whole idea behind this movie because every single feature film from the classics like THE GODFATHER , THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION and SCHINDLER'S LIST all the way through to straight to video fare like CROCODILE 2 : DEATH SWAMP all deal with aspects of human nature . If you want to know what it's like to be human watch any film not just this one . I doubt if I'll be watching it again The only interest to be had by watching BEING HUMAN is spotting Ewan McGregor and Robert Carlysle before they became famous and several British actors before they got a role in THE BILL
Not Much Pleasure To Be Had	What can I say about THE PLEASURE PLANET that I haven't said about umpteen other tedious soft core porn films ? Very little . It's just another movie with a very weak plot used to set up very unconvincing set scenes between male non actors who spend too much time in the gym and bimbos who have obviously had silicon implants . Actually the sex scenes in this movie are somewhat less convincing than you usually see in this type of film as the cast members grind their hips together giving pained expressions like they've got constipation or something . No wonder a lot of people claim sex is over rated , they've probably watched too many of these films on late night cable stations
What's With The Second Amendment ?	I had absolutely no idea what LIBERTY STILL STANDS was going to be about before I saw it on Sky movies ( Hardly surprising since it went straight to video in so many countries including Britain ) , so as the title sequence started there's qoutes from the American second amendment cut into the graphics including the qoute about " A well regulated militia " so right away I was expecting a thriller featuring right wing racist nutters and some heavy handed criticism of American gun laws , but within seconds I discovered the bad guy was played by Wesley Snipes so out went my theory this was going to be about muderous " patriots " needing guns to fight against international conspiracies led by communists and ZOG so what's all this got to do with the second amendment ? ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! It is revealed later on how the second amendment and gun control ties in with this movie , however it's done in such a laughable and unconvincing manner it doesn't hold up , but that's not the reason I disliked LIBERTY STILL STANDS , I disliked it simply because it's a bad movie . Director Kari Skogland uses far too many close ups , so many in fact that it's often impossible to understand what's going because much of the running time is composed of either Linda Fiorentino or Wesley Snipes face filling the screen . The script ( Also by Skogland ) is very poor and plot wise resembles a cross between PHONE BOOTH and BLOWN AWAY . Amazingly the plot isn't the worst aspect of the script it's the dialogue which at times is so esoteric I didn't have a clue what they were talking about half the time . The dialogue also seems devoid of characterisation and fails to convince , and that's before it's revealed what the snipers motives are - Which as I mentioned before is unconvincing I've not seen PHONE BOOTH but I can't believe it could be worse than LIBERTY STILL STRANDS
Directed By Jean Claude Van Dumb	THE QUEST is directed by and stars Jean Claude Van Damme and watching this movie I was struck by the opening scenes which have a passing resemblance to Sergio Leone's ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA , but don't build your hopes up , we're not going to be watching a masterpiece of American cinema and as soon as Jean Claude appeared as the head of a child gang of pick pockets I just knew I wasn't going to be watching a masterpiece of American cinema . Oh and it's a good thing dead people can't sue otherwise Jean Claude would have received a copyright writ from Charles Dickens for using a surrogate Fagin . I hear the Jewish ADL are pretty good at issuing writs for people preaching anti-semitism and this has probably stopped Jean Claude uttering " We'll pick a pocket or two moi dearz , we'll pick a pocket or two " so instead the actor / director appears as a clown with his face painted completely white where he proceeds to give little children lots and lots of dollars . Expect Jean Claude to receive a writ from Michael Jackson in the near futureThis being a Jean Claude star vehicle we're soon treated to our hero escaping from the law and finding himself having to resort to his martial skills to make ends meet . Sounds just like every other movie that's starred Jean Claude Van Dumb doesn't it ? And there's absolutely no difference between this movie and Jean Claude's other films . We're even treated to these tedious arena scenes like what we saw in BLOODSPORT and LIONHEART except the ones here are directed even worse than we'd come to expect in a movie like this Watching THE QUEST I suddenly realised what it is that I dislike about Jean Claude movies - They lack any type of humour , everything is done in a completely dead pan and serious way with no room for any type of light relief . I don't want to sound egocentric but I had more fun typing the first paragraph of this review than watching this movie and I reckon - He said modestly - Joe average would have more fun reading it than having to sit through this dumb , formuliac , dire movie
Dire	Seems I'm not the only person who stays up late watching horror movies judging by the comments on this page . It is very reassuring to know that I'm not alone in doing this and it's not surprise at all that I'm not alone in thinking SATAN'S SLAVE is a really crap horror movieAfter the not unimpressive credit sequence we're shown a human sacrifice where the satanic worshippers wear animal heads which instantly reminded me of a Goldfrapp music video and there's another problem : Since the actor playing the satanic priest carrying out the sacrifice is fairly well known and has a distinctive voice you'll know instantly when his character appears sans goat head who he is and what he's up to therefore there's no real surprises where the story is going and where he fits into it . The story itself is one of those boring tales of a disturbed young woman going to live in a country mansion where things aren't what they seem . Now where have I seen that plot before ? Everyone else has noticed a problem in the directing and it's very difficult not to notice how bad it is . Much of the camera work seems to have been carried out by a bunch of not very talented film students straight out of film school . To give you an idea how bad the directing is there's a lot of T & A which makes absolutely no impression which is always a very bad sign . The cast aren't up to much either with one male character more camp than a row of pink tents . Again another bad sign for a horror movieTalking of the cast leads me to Michael Gough . Can there be any British character actor alive today with a more inconsistent resume ? He's appeared in some of the most highly regarded British television productions of the last 40 years but has also appeared in some really bad movies : KONGA , THEY CAME FROM BEYOND SPACE and TROG . Add SATAN'S SLAVE to the list
Dead On Its Feet Would Be A Better Title	With the success of THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT ( Well financial success , artistically that film was crap ) I'm surprised that more people didn't jump on the band wagon of making spoof documentaries , but if DROP DEAD GORGEOUS is anything to go by I'm very glad they didn't . As at least one other reviewer pointed out the movie hardly ever looks like it's a documentary because the director uses too many camera shots and angles when shooting and he casts several well known faces which means - Unlike SPINAL TAP - absolutely no one will be taken in by this mockumentary . Even if hadn't been done as a spoof DROP DEAD GORGEOUS would still be a poor comedy because the script is full of ludicrous characters and situations that bare no relation to reality . It's not satire , it's farce and a very silly farce at that
Red McQueen !	Seeing as this film is about John Wayne saving the world from commie scum I burst out laughing at the credits which listed one of the actors as Red McQueen ! Red Mcqueen ! , an actor called Red in a film starring John Wayne saving humanity from the horrors of communism ! I'm surprised the Duke didn't have him shot on the spot . Actually this irony sums up this propaganda piece , it's side splitting in its humour but no one seems to notice the hilarity they're causing to a critical free thinking viewer , check out this dialogue " Seventy six inches . That's a lot of man " You're telling me dear " I'd better shut up before I start talking politics " Duke you do nothing else but talk politics so please shut up I know I'm probably being churlish in pointing this out ( This film is propaganda of the worst sort remember ) but the un-American activities commitee didn't really concentrate on hard detective as shown here , they pressured people into becoming informants and anyone refusing to grass up anyone with vaguely liberal views soon found themselves becoming a suspected communist themselves . People lost livilihoods , liberty and reputations simply for not turning stool pigeon , what a disgraceful chapter in American history
The Turkey Has Landed	Press Lenox walks into a room and is shocked to see Sil , but not as shocked as I was to find that someone wanted to make a sequel to a less than average SF thriller . With a few notable exceptions sequels are inferior products and FAECES 2 continues the traditionDoes anyone remember NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET 2 ? If you do then you'll remember it ignores a very important plot device involving Freddy Krugar and his victims , and it's the same with this film which totally ignores any internal continuity with the first movie . But you don't really notice this when you see the makers have ignored important concepts like logic . . . First of all a manned mission is sent to Mars . Why ? , there's no real reason ( Except to set up the plot of course ) for this happening . Yes I do know the Americans sent a dozen or so Americans to the moon but that was during the cold war when they were engaged in a space race with the USSR , both sides knew that if one side get there first the other side would have suffered a massive national humiliation hence both the USA and USSR spent massive amounts of money and expertise on trying to get to the moon first . Why do you think NASA stopped sending men to the moon ? Because they'd won the space race at the cost of billions of dollars while the Soviets weren't prepared to spend vast amounts of resources on a meaningless race where they'd be only second . Space travel isn't cost effective , that's why NASA have a real life problem in sending manned missions to Mars because there's no money to fund such a project . If someone found unlimited resources on Mars like oil NASA would be able to get funding but this isn't mentioned in SPECIES 2 . NASA send a mission to Mars because it's there and get some laughable sponsorship deal from soft drink and sportswear firmsNo hold on tell a lie , it transpires halfway through the movie that the US military want to put military bases on Mars . Military bases on Mars ? Against whom ? If it's military bases with their missiles pointed against countries on Earth then where's the logic in that ? Wouldn't you keep the bases nearer their targets ? It's a bit like General Tommy Franks keeping all his front line bases in Iceland when intervening in Afghanistan and Iraq . And neither does this contrived plot point explain how NASA got their incredible budget to go to Mars . Talking of the military , isn't there some required basic fitness level for the military ? I've never seen a serviceman weigh four hundred pounds . This sums up all types of carelessness on the part of the makers , things like Lenox holding his pistol sideways . Why would he do that if the sights are located at the top of the gun ? Oh and the first man to step foot on Mars is the world's most famous guy but can walk down a street without being recognised , until the script requires it . And is DNA a living sentinent being ? I don't think so " This isn't The X-files " You're right there
One Of The Worst Films I've Seen	The TV guide described this as " Fast and furious " , well I'd describe this film as diahorrea because it's fast and furious faeces . I wasn't expecting it to be up to much but I was shocked as to what a poor film RANGERS is POSSIBLE SPOILERS But don't worry you won't want to see this movieThe film starts with an airborne shot of a hercules C-130 then it cuts to the interior of the plane - Which in no way resembles a C-130 , It resembles a gym changing room ! - where we're introduced to the characters in some of the most painful exposition I've seen of having the leader discuss what the mission is and why they're all wearing Syrian army uniforms . Cut to some stock footage of men skydiving from a plane at dawn and then landing into the sea where they inflate a couple of rubber dingys underwater then cut to them resurfacing where it's pitch black ! Some team of special forces if it takes them all day to inflate a couple of dingys . And wouldn't the delta force or navy SEALS be doing this sort of stuff ? I'm just kind of curious why this film is called RANGERS ? So they carry on with their mission which confused me because if they're posing as Syrians then that can only mean the action is taking place in Syria or the Lebanon , neither country being at war so why's this taking place in the middle of a war zone ? It gets worse though because one of the team says : " This jobs easier than that twenty buck hoe I had in Las Vegas " Yup there's nothing more endearing to an audience than knowing one of the heroes has to pay for sex . In fact would a prostitute in Vegas be charging as little as twenty bucks ? Shows you how bad a film like RANGERS is when you find yourself asking questions like that . Enough . I could spend several pages writing about this piece of garbage but it's not worth it . It's a cheap straight to video film composed of stock footage and a bunch of non actors giving the impression they're making the story up as they go along . I won't finish on the old cliche that I wasted ninety minutes of my life on this crap because I only wasted thirty minutes of my life on it as I turned it off when the guy got blown out of the window
Hello Inspector . Send Me More Virgins To Burn	SPOILERS It's not very often that I comment on what other people have written in their reviews but it's not very often I see a movie as stupid as THE WICKER MAN get praised to the high heavens . Bryce David and Ray Girvan are totally correct in their views - This film revolves around the plot set-up of someone from a Scottish island sending an anonymous letter to a police station hoping that the policeman who reads it will investigate the case of a missing child - AND WHO WILL BE A VIRGIN ! What's the chances of that ? and as said how would the islanders know in the first place ? It also ignores other logical things like won't Sgt Howie be missed if he's sacraficed ? and is it fair to assume the police will investigate the contents of an anonymous letter ? It also seems to ignore police procedure . Wouldn't CID lead the investigation for a missing child , and don't policemen travel in pairs ? It's rather a clever idea of a character being killed because they're a virgin but not if it's to the detriment of the rest of the story There's other things that annoyed me . If this is a totally isolated Scottish island untouched by modern society then the inhabitants will be Celts , but are their pagan based ideals truly Celtic ? Doesn't the English West country have may poles ? If so then surely people from the West country can't have anything in common with these islanders who have a different cultural background ? The philosophy seen here is more new ageism than Celtic so is there any point of setting it on a remote Scottish island ? It's also obvious that this has been happening for years . Does that mean they've been writing to police stations on the mainland for years and the cops have been sending them virgins ? I can't escape from this ridiculous premise no matter how hard I try I don't know if it's the fault of the production or if channel 4 used a bad print but everything on screen seems very cheap and badly edited as the camera jumps around from scene to scene . The sound editing is very poor but listening to the songs I can't say I'm complaining and I feel I should point out to anyone thinking of hiring Britt Ekland that if they're using a stand in can they please use someone who has a vague passing resemblance to her , you know someone with blonde hair might be start . I know Christopher Lee said pre LORD OF THE RINGS that this is the best movie he ever appeared in , but can anyone name me a good film starring Lee where he doesn't use the words " Gandalf " or " Mordor " ? THE WICKER MAN gets
KUNG POO More Like	Want to know why pornographic films are so popular ? It's nothing to do with the sex ( I think I speak for many of us when I say sex shouldn't be a spectator sport ) , it's all to do with the awful dubbing which makes for great hilarity . You know what I'm talking about , when a male character sees his female co-star for the first time a voice ( Which sounds suspicously like it belongs to the English royal family ) can be heard saying " Well hi there baby , you're a pretty young thing " while the actor's mouth can clearly be seen mouthing the words " Oh my god , what a scanky dog , no wonder I'm gay " . In other words ( Geddit ? ) overdubbing can be sidesplittingly funny - But only if it's used in porn filmsThis fact seems to have escaped the notice of the producers of KUNG POW : ENTER THE FIST who have decided to take some obscure Hong Kong movie and redub and edit it into this alleged comedy and I can't emphasize enough how the comedy fails . I'm actually shocked that no-one came to the conclusion that this might have been funny for a skit lasting two minutes but this movie lasts almost for an hour and a half . It's absolutely pitiful that humour in this movie is composed of people making funny noises like " Whhhheeee " and " Oooohhh " . Yes that's right that's what the humour involves and before anyone asks " But Theo isn't this a martial arts spoof like SCARY MOVIE is a horror spoof ? " , well all I can say that's what the ad-men want you to believe down to the number of trailers featuring a cow in a fight scene ripped off from THE MATRIX . The cynic in me ( And no dirty jokes please , the porn topic is finished ) believes that the producers only filmed that scene so they could put it in the trailer and make everyone believe they'd be seeing a martial arts equivilent of SCARY MOVIE . False advertising I think it's calledI was dying to give this , but I did like the theme tune by Mint Royale which is the same track used in the punch up scene from the GET CARTER remake so I'm going to give it , but even so it's still one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time . It's so bad it's unwatchable
One Of The Worst Comedy Films I've Seen	This film is pitiful in its lame attempts at trying to get me to laugh . I can't for one moment believe that the makers of steaming pile of horse manure didn't realise that this was going to be an absolute turkey . I will admit that I'm not a fan of comedy films and " Spectacular " comedy never works . I hated THE BLUES BROTHERS but do admit some people loved it , I hated 1941 but concede some people liked it , I hated this film and don't believe that anyone will like SATB 3 which consists of slo mo car crashes , car chases , the KKK , bikers , a Basset hound , CB talk and nothing in the way of funny scenes . How bad is this film ? Burt Reynolds turned it down . That says it all This movie ' s badI know son . I can smell it
Ridiculous Rubbish	I've never really understood the cult of celebrity , or rather Joe Public becoming obsessed with celebrities . My only real brush with celebrity was at a telefantasy convention in 1994 when I was talking to a fellow attendee called Tony , and as we were both smokers we popped out of the non smoking foyer into the hotel reception area where we could smoke . As Tony and myself lit up the lift doors opened and none other than Peter Miles stepped out and walked towards us . Unless you're a fan of DOCTOR WHO you've probably never heard of him so let me say he played Nyder the right hand man of Davros in probably the greatest story the show produced - Genesis Of The Daleks . " Ye awright Peter ? " I asked as he passed . Peter gave Tony and me the most chilling smile I've ever seen . Later on at the convention I was talking to a bunch of guys at a fanzine stall and Brian Croucher ( Travis from season two of BLAKES 7 ) gave us a wave and a cheery " Bye lads " as he left , and to date that's my first and last experience with celebrity . Maybe I should mention three weeks ago Stella McCartney was married on the Isle Of Bute and the guests - Among them Madonna , Liv Tyler , Pierce Brosnan , Gywnith Paltrow and Kate Moss - arrived in a fleet of limos off the ferry . Grown adults became giggly schoolgirls and departed for the nearest pub just in case a Hollywood celeb might pop in for a quick drink . The cult of celebrity does nothing for me so I wasn't too interested . Mind you if Liv Tyler had ever appeared in DOCTOR WHO . . . . . I didn't like THE FAN and I doubt if my blase attitude towards stars has anything to do with it . It's just another one of those person gets stalked by a psycho plots , though this movie appeared 10 years before they became all the rage . The problem with THE FAN is down to the poor script and bizarre casting . Sally Ross is a fifty something celenb and she's getting stalked by Douglas Breen an obsessed fan half her age . Why ? because he's whacko and is jealous of her fame . There that's it , that's how far both motivation and character development go and it's impossible to understand why Breen would be attracted to Ms Ross . I had thought perhaps Sally may be Breen's mother and she gave him away to concentrate on her career but this isn't in fact the case which meant that for me there's no credibility involved . Maybe if Sally had been written and played by a good looking thirty something actress this might have been a better ( Or less bad ) movie . I've also mentioned in previous reviews that Michael Biehn is very good at playing good guys , well he's absolutely lousy as Douglas Breen the psycho stalker
Not Too Hot	When I saw that this " thriller " starred a woman I thought it was going to be some sort of hot latino chick blows away bad guys type movie , but it doesn't happen like that , it plays out as " A women gets kidnapped " type drama that you've seen umpteen times on The Living Channel except for one important difference - there's a lot of nasty violence involved , or rather a lot of nasty violence involving women in a film that has a trite script and rather poor production values , which had me wishing I was watching a hot latino chick blowing away bad guys
Another Overlong Polemical Diatribe Complete With Massive Self Contradictions	If BOWLING FOR COLUMBINE was subjective and somewhat inaccurate there can be no adjectives used to describe FARENHEIT . It is polemical documentary making of the worse sort that will change no ones mind on anything in which case it deserves to be ignored , but since there seems to be a cult that think Michael Moore is the greatest thing that's happened to humanity for two thousand years a few points . Moore asks if the hijackers were Saudis why didn't America invade Suai Arabia instead of Afghanistan ? The same reason Britain didn't invade the Republic of Ireland in the 1970s to defeat the IRA because as the Irish Republic didn't train , arm , or fund the provisional IRA neither does the government of Saudi Arabia train , arm or fund Al Qaeda . In fact Al-Qaeda has vowed to over throw the Saudi government ( Same as during the 1970s the IRA vowed to over throw the Republic's government ) and replace it with an Islamic theocracy . For someone who's supposedly educated Moore should have known this and she should also know that Taliban controlled Afghanistan was indeed being used as a massive terrorist training camp for Islamic terrorists from all over the world , same as he should know that the Taliban and Mujahedeen are two different things and that the " Northern Alliance " who fought the Taliban since 1996 were effectively the Mujahedeen . Moore doesn't state that both the Taliban and Mujahedeen are the same entity but by using choice words like " Afghans " and " Islamic fundamentalists fighting the Russians " that's what he is trying to imply to his unquestioning fan baseTalking of Afghanistan leads us to the main problem with FARENHEIT - The internal self contradiction . In 2001 Moore publicly criticised the invasion of Afghanistan saying there was no evidence that Bin Laden was involved and as the documentary states earlier the hi-jackers were Suadis not Afghans . In short Moore is against the invasion of Afghanistan but then spends time telling his audience that because Bush didn't into Afghanistan quick enough and without enough men this allowed Bin Laden to escape . What is Moore trying to say ? That if he was in charge he's had invaded Afghanistan quicker and with more men ? What are you saying Mickey ? There's another similar point with similar illogical points that come across as self contradictions : Moore laments that the anti terrorist laws are repressive then points out a few seconds later that there's not enough state funding to police the border areas of Oregon . Moore's against the anti-terror legislation but he wants more border security to police the anti - terror laws ? Is that what he's saying ? He also makes it quite clear in the same segment that Fresno peace groups don't look like terrorists . Indeed they don't and no one has ever came up with any criteria as to what an average terrorist looks like . Go to the Gaza strip or West Bank and you'll see that the average terrorist looks like the average man , woman ( Or in some extreme cases ) child except that they're skin is a slightly different shade from that of the average Fresno peace group member . Is Moore being latently racist I wonder ? In keeping with the same irony / self contradiction the best worst bits from the documentary take place in Iraq , a country we're led to believe that was under Saddam a beautiful utopia where children played on the streets , men and woman sat outside street corner cafes with well prepared inexpensive lunches and everyone smiled only to have everything ruined by a war of aggression by America . We're then shown dead Iraqi babies and American wounded screaming in pain . Shocking scenes but one without any context . We're not shown say , the thousands of Kurds who were murdered by Iraqis during the 1980s , or the Kuwaits who were murdered by Saddams forces in 1990 or the hundreds of thousands of Iranians who were killed by Saddams forces during the Gulf war of the 1980s . War is always a sickening business featuring the very worst of human nature - I mean if Michael Moore had a film camera and gone to the Serb held areas of Bosnia in 1995 after NATO air-strikes he could have filmed similar scenes amongst civilian casualties , same as he might have if he showed the aftermath of NATO air-strikes against Serbia in 1999 . I wonder why he didn't ? Was it because the Democrats were in the White House at the time ? You might like to remember that Moore backed Wesley Clark as the Democratic nomination in the race for the White House , the same Wesley Clark who was in charge of the NATO air-strikes in the Balkans that killed civilians I could say much more on this polemical piece of nonsense like Moore's ridiculous oil pipeline theory but I won't bother since like this fantasy drama from Moore no one will have their minds changed . I will say one thing though , as unlikely as it may seem by reading this review I was against the invasion of Iraq even though I could understand the reasons behind it and Dubya would have stood or fallen via the 2004 American presidential vote on this decision . Moore had nothing to lose by making this documentary and because of his unquestioning fan base everything to gain . If Dubya hadn't invaded Iraq we wouldn't have got FARENHEIT so enjoy the money and awards this movie brings you Mickey because people died for it
Chuck Kills More Commies	If the first two MIA movies rip off UNCOMMON VALOR then this one starts with a rip off from THE KILLING FIELDS . In many ways it's almost effective and you can see the pain etched on Chuck's face as if he's stood on a nail or something . It must have been a very sharp nail because he carries the same pained expression throughout the entire movie . As for the rest of the movie it's just like you'd expect with the only real surprises being that the movie is half way over before Chuck kills his first commie , but don't worry he more than makes up for it by the endBTW am I alone in thinking that logically MIA 2 ( The least worst in the series ) should have been released first , this one released second and the original MIA released last ?
Techno-Babble	I can't remember much about this TVM except for the fact I hated it . This was down to two things 1 ) The techno-babble . In order to fool the audience into thinking they're watching a high brow sci-fi movie the writer has introduced reams and reams of big words in the dialogue and there's no way I can quote it because I've no idea how the spell the words . It doesn't matter if they're real scientific expressions or just made up because the audience will be totally confused either way2 ) The gore is rasther off putting . You see being a TVM I was expecting a PG certificate but we see things like killer moths from outer space burrowing out of peoples ' limbs . Yuck
A Waste Of Time	I didn't think much of I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER which featured a bunch of teen drink drivers getting stalked by a character who looked like he was from TISWAS . Seeing as both the original director and screenwriter couldn't be bothered doing a sequel I STILL KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER seemed like a bad idea from the start ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! The movie opens very badly with one of the characters from the previous movie going to confession saying she killed someone in an accident . If I remember the original film the protagonists run down someone while they're all drunk so I question if vehicular manslaughter is in fact an " accident " Don't ask me how but I had the opening scene sussed out as a dream sequence long before the priest says " I still know what you did last Summer " and bursts through the confessional wall . Maybe I'm psychic , or maybe this is just a dire screenplay ? I think I know what one my money is on . But the major faux pas is when one of the characters is asked the question ; " What is the capital of Brazil ? " to which she answers " Rio De Janerio " which isn't in fact the correct answer at all . No it's not a goof because there's a reason for the wrong answer . Alas you'll be able to see the reason for this long before it plays out on screen I'm really fed up seeing movies involving chopped up teenagers . I hope and pray we see more movies featuring a bunch of British squaddies stuck in a Scottish cottage fighting for their lives against werewolves or movies featuring British squaddies holed up in a Lancashire mansion surrounded by crypto zombies
More Crap That Was Made In Britain	A couple of days after writing about how garbage like MAD COWS and THIS FILTHY EARTH receive money while Ange , Duncan and Theo are totally ignored I had to sit through yet another British movie that had me scratching my head as to why it received a single penny . Some people may claim that because DEAD BABIES is based upon a highly regarded novel it has an in built market but both THIS FILTHY EARTH and MAD COWS were also adapted from novels and they were an ordeal to sit through as well I had read the synopsis of the plot where a bunch of high class wasters go to a remote mansion where they're stalked by an internet cult but to be honest this isn't really how the story unravels and anyone expecting Friday THE 13TH meets THE SHINING is going to be bitterly disappointed since 90-95 % of the running time is taken up with said characters taking drugs and discussing sex . And what hateful characters they are too . Not one of them is likable in any way and within minutes you'll be getting nostalgic for Stalin , Mao and Pol Pot hoping that next time someone embarks on communist democide they'll be successful in creating an egalitarian utopia . Anything that will signal the end of such decadent bourgeois meaningless that the hateful characters in this movie embark upon can only be welcomed Not content with giving us a movie where the plot is meandering and where the audience fail to connect with the characters the director continues to spoil things further by getting all clever and arty . No doubt that is to impress us so we will fall upon our knees and cry " Oh my god , what a wonderful director the way he bamboozles us with his highly artistic technique and only a worthless pleb will fail to appreciate what a god given talent this man is " . I'm sure the vast majority of people either screamed " How come my projects got turned down while crap like this didn't ? " or " WTF was the last half hour of this piece of crap all about ? " You might defend the movie by saying the original source novel was unfilmable and this makes the film unwatchable . I will agree that this movie is unwatchable I know the IMDb classes this as an American movie but the style and faults with DEAD BABIES is uniquely British . Americans might think they've got things tough with Bush but we've got Tony Blair , not to mention DEAD BABIES , MAD COWS and THIS FILTHY EARTH . No wonder everyone is ashamed to be British in the 21st century
Bad News Bears = Bad Movie	There's a showbiz rule that you should never work with children or animals . Michael Jackson didn't heed this advice and now look at him , so why on earth did someone think a baseball movie featuring a bunch of kids would be a hit ? It's not just any bunch of kids , no siree it's a Jewish kid , it's a black kid , it's a really fat kid , it's small but gutsy kid etc who are all annoying as can be If they'd remained a bunch of stereotypes and cyphers it would have been bad enough but someone somewhere decided to stick the knife into the audience by casting a bunch of ( Not very good ) child actors who obviously attend a ( Not very good ) stage school . You might be interested though not shocked to know that the only actor in BAD NEWS BEARS IN BREAKING TRAINING who has had regular employment since is William Devane and he was 37 years old when this movie was released There's another problem and that's a heart tugging family sub plot where we see the crap hair style kid spouting lines like " I remember being five years old and you gave me a bike . I didn't want a bike - I wanted a father " I'm telling you what this kid really needs is some acting lessons . Something else is the suggestion that if people chant " LET THEM PLAY " at a sports arena people will get what they want . I'm sorry but we don't live in a democracy . Don't believe me ? then go to the republican party convention and chant " WE WANT JOHN McCAIN " then go to the Democrat party convention and chant " WE WANT RON KOVIC " and see what happens Add to all this mush poor directing where everything seems to be framed in medium shot and strange cinematography where primary colours dominate the screen and you've got a movie that rates
Not Worth Watching	Is there anyone else out there fascinated by the octopus ? Strange creatures they are , almost like something out of a sci-fi comic book with their giant heads and their tentacles grabbing anything that looks good enough to eat . Did you know the female octopus dies after laying her eggs , her contribution to the species has passed at this point . Fascinating . So when I heard the climax of PEARL OF THE SOUTH PACIFIC involved a giant octopus I eagerly sat down to watch this movie . Big mistake because sitting through this is an ordeal . It's poorly acted with a cast who look like they're going to burst into song at any minute , pitifully written with atrocious dialogue ( " I feel like I just swallowed an octopus " Gee don't get too ironic ) in a movie that can best be described as HEART OF DARKNESS lite . If I have anything good about this film it's that the battle with the giant octopus is very well done , much better than say the giant squid from REAP THE WILD WIND and that the battle takes place about two thirds of the way through which means you've already seen the best bit and can turn off without having to endure another 30 minutes of crap
A Wasted Cast	With a title like THE SEX FILES : ALIEN EROTICA 2 you know what you're going to get , some soft core simulated sex done up as a spoof as THE X-FILES which in this case involves an alien fungas spilling its spores which turns women into uncontrollable sex machines who feel the urge to tear off all their clothes and make out with the nearest guy . Gillian Anderson doesn't appear in it of course but any disappointment about that will soon evaporate when you see the jaw dropping cast list : Kira Reed , Regina Russell , Michelle Hall , Amber Newman , Mia Zottoli , Gabriella Hall and Gina Ryder . If they'd got Brandy Davis that would have meant this movie had every single soft core sex goddess in the business appearing in the same movie , an absolutely amazing feat . However the cast are simply wasted since the sex scenes lack any sparks , once again we're treated to simulated love scenes that look far far too simulated and feature no cries of ecatasy on the soundtrack and these bitterly disappointing scenes are let down even more by some really choppy editing If cast lists are anything to by THE SEX FILES : ALIEN EROTICA 2 is just about the most disappointing film I've seen in any genre
HG Wells And The Acid House	I first became aware of this remake when a clip was broadcast on Barry Norman's FILM 96 . It's the scene where Dr Moreau ( Marlon Brando ) sits with his animal experiments and tries to justify himself to UN diplomat Edward Douglas played by David Thewlis . The reason the scene stuck in my mind was because Thewlis is best known for his work in British social realism movies so as Douglas points to the animals asking " What the bloody hell's this all about ? What's he supposed to be ? " I couldn't help thinking that Thewlis's performance had jumped out of a Mike Leigh movie . Even more bizarelly when Moreau replies " You expect me to condense seventeen years into seventeen minutes . . . " Brando plays the part exactly - And I mean exactly - as he did as Col Kurzt in APOCALPSE NOW , and all the time the camera intercuts with Moreau's creatures all of whom are giving embarrassed looks . I thought because this clip was shown out of context that may be the reason it looked so ridiculous but unfortunately after seeing the whole movie I can say this is one of the least ridiculous parts of the movie THE ISLAND OF DR MOREAU isn't as well known as some of HG Well's other books like THE TIME MACHINE or WAR OF THE WORLDS but it deserves to be remembered since it deals with humanism , genetic engineering and vivisection . Obviously these concepts were beyond the productions knowledge and we have a film that makes little sense . It goes without saying everything about the movie is bad , the directing is bad , the screenplay is bad and the acting is bad but the worse thing is the way the producers have tried to update the storyline by having much of the action take place in an acid house ! No seriously in order for it to appeal to a 20 something audience Val Kilmer's character ( Who's not really a character - He's just there to spout lines and be used as a plot device ) decides to have an acid house party with his furry friends . No doubt the animals favourite tune is Panic by The Smiths because they decide to hang the bloody DJ and install a new furrier music maker who then shoots anyone who either appears too sycophantic or too critical to his choice of music . The film ends with Douglas escaping after the animal experiments have killed one another in a shoot out Anyone reading this review without seeing the film will no doubt be phoning an ambulance for me . But the events take place on screen exactly as I described them and an ambulance would be better served by being sent to the house of the studio executive who was insane enough to finance this mess
" Why Are They Making Fin ' Stupid Movies " . . .	. . . asks Woody Harrelson's character Mickey and was the one and only time in the movie I found myself agreeing with him . Not that NATURAL BORN KILLERS is a stupid movie - It's worse than a stupid movie , it's an egotistical one as Oliver Stone shows through one movie how many directing styles he learned at film school . It goes without saying that as a director he fails with this , the only exceptions being " The Mallory home life sit com " and the title sequence that features a pumping soundtrack , but it's saying something when the impact of the film is down more to a Patti Smith track than the director . Oh and can anyone explain any contextual reasons for all the differing styles ? For a film that claims to be a satire the script lacks any type of intelligence , wit , or even satire , a problem I would have thought in a satirical film . The script can best be described as " BONNIE AND CLYDE on acid " which probably suits the " MTV on cocaine " type of directing . What's the subtext ? Everyone has the capacity to be a killer ? Yeah like I've never seen an edition of the news or seen quiet guys - Girls too - go violently mad after a few drinks . Yeah I managed to work out man is a noble savage devoid of nobility and that was before I saw this OTT crap . There also seems to be a bit of a flaw to the structure , you know that oft shown clip of people around the world praising Mickey and Mallory ? I was totally convinced before seeing NBK this scene would take place at the very end of the movie ( Logically it should ) but it takes place roughly 25 minutes into the running timeAs for the controversy the only death NATURAL BORN KILLERS was responsible for was killing Oliver Stone's career , but he's only got himself to blame
Very Predictable	! ! ! ! POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOR ANYONE WHO'S NEVER SEEN A TVM ! ! ! ! The problem with STORM CHASERS is that it's a TVM which means . . . The budget is low . This means that instead of seeing a terrible tornado we're instead shown the aftermath of a terrible tornado which is composed of film footage and a " Tent City " set up in a car park The main protagonist / hero is a ballsy woman who doesn't take any nonsense off men , especially nonsense off well buffed hunky menThe ballsy woman ends up with a romantic interlude with a well buffed hunky man she intially disliked The ballsy woman saves the day Very predictable stuff that seems somewhat belated to tie in with TWISTER . The lovey dovey stuff seems to overwhelm the side plot involving a research facility which led me to think that the TVM would have worked better if the producers had upped the conspiracy theory aspects a lot more but the science used is just plain stupid so perhaps they shouldn't have bothered in the first place As everyone else is keen to point out it's fairly inoffensive ( Compared to the previous movie I'd seen tonight THE LIFE OF STUFF it's CITIZEN KANE in comparison ) but I couldn't help wondering what Kelly McGillis was doing in a low brow TVM . This the actress who won plaudits in WITNESS , TOP GUN and THE ACCUSED . I guess a lot can happen in ten years
Three D . One Bad Movie	Gawd what a terrible script . For the first 40 minutes we're subjected to lots of scenes with cute dolphins . This might appeal to children but because there's some bad language and some scenes of gore this means a 15 certificate meaning young children can't see this movie and the target audience will be bored by the mawkishness of it all . And what's with the dialogue " Go tell him to take a leap at a flying donut " Good grief words are weapons , not even THE SOPRANOS or OZ would include this as an insult , mainly because if they did the HBO viewers would cancel their subscriptions to the station . Why is it the only British characters in American films are either former public schoolboys with no brains or chirpy cockney geezers ? Oh hold on here comes a couple of Brits sailing into this film , ones a brainless idiot with a public school accent and the other is a chirpy cockney geezer , Cor blimey guv leave it out . And there's a geeky guy and a bimbo who are in lurve with each other , I'm only guessing here but might I be right in guessing one of them will end up as lunch ? Without doubt the most unforgivable thing about this pitiful script is the fact it was written by the highly regarded Richard Matheson author of I AM LEGENDThe cast are disappointing to say the least but they're not helped by the director . It should be remembered JAWS 3 was made in 3-D so instead of trying to get the best out of his cast director Joe Alves concentrates on the 3-D gimmick , sharks , dolphins , flames and other objects come right through the screen at you but paying audiences must have felt stupid sitting in a cinema with their 3-D glasses on . Come to think of it a paying audience must have felt silly watching this rubbish even if it wasn't in 3 -
Very Dated	I'm amazed this comedy is so highly rated because I found it very dated in its type of slapstick comedy . The first twenty minutes seem to be entirely composed of Jack Lemmon's villain standing behind some oh so obvious back projection trying to scupper the plans of Tony Curtis good guy . As the film progresses I became aware that Lemmon is best at giving subtle bitter sweet performances , not an over the top baddie so broadly written that even Laurel and Hardy would have complained about the amount of silly slapstick involved . Long before the movie had ended I was wondering what Lemmon was doing in this role I couldn't help noticing that many of the people heaping praise upon THE GREAT RACE were very young when they saw it on its original release in 1965 . This probably explains why they have a soft spot for it . I'm afraid that I have never been a fan of slapstick and never will be so I have very little kind words for a comedy whose main selling point is that it features the biggest custard pie fight in history
It's Not A Documentary	I will give this TVM some credit for getting off to a good start even though it's basically a remake of the opening of TWISTER . Such a pity it's revealed as " A boy reading a story to his friends " sequence . I will also give the producers some credit for casting a fairly fit actress as the heroine and praise too for the director for concentrating on Stacey the babysitter's cleavage as she play's twister with the heroine's kidWell that's all the good bits mentioned , what about the bad ? You do get the feeling that no one on this TVM has any knowledge what so ever as to how nuclear reactors or tornados work . If this teleplay is set at a nuclear power plant then why's it called ATOMIC TWISTER ? Surely atomic power plants and nuclear power plants are different things ? They're operated by diesel pumps ? They have no back up power source ? Tornados can creep up on you without you noticing them ? And if you think that's unbelievable wait till you see the pretty boy cop trying to save the day . Most cops would put on their lights and sirens , put their foot on the gas and drive all the way to the south pole . Mind you don't run down any penguins officer
True Story ? Yeah Right	MILD SPOILERS This is based on a true story is it ? If that's the case then why does the opening caption read " Somewhere in France , All saints day , 1944 " Couldn't the caption have given the exact location ? , or would that lead people to research the integrity of this true story ? Since reading about the truth in " true stories " like PAPILLON and SLEEPERS alarm bells always ring in my head when the words " true " and " story " appear side by side , and if the story is in fact true ask yourself this question : If the events on screen actually happened then why isn't the case better known . I mean if chairs were running around putting the boot into teachers wouldn't that be front page news . My second criticism is that I thought this was going to be a bit more light hearted . Of course as soon as the waffen SS turned up and got some bayonet practice in I realised this wasn't going to be the case , but by then the damage had been done and I knew not to expect any intentional laughsPOSSESSED isn't of much interest except for one aspect - How things used to be . For example smoking wasn't the social crime it is now , only white people were allowed to be catholics , commies existed and wanted to drop atomic bombs on the USA , young teenage boys could be looked after by priests without any suspicion and teenagers swearing was a certain sign that there were demonic forces at work . Ah the good old daysNB : That last line was sarcasm before anyone complains
The Problem Is The Plot	A question for all you girls out there : If a man you've never met before accidentally phoned you up on purpose and continued to do so at the most indiscreet moments would you be intrigued by him or so freaked out you'd phone the police ? Yeah that's what I thought so I couldn't swallow the idea of Marti Gerrard putting up with the unwarrented attention of Connor Hill MILD SPOILERS This is a really dumb story . Connor Hill's wife is murdered and the plot revolves around the question is Connor phoning Marti so he can have an alibi ? But there's a massive gap in logic here , couldn't Connor have employed a hit man ? something the prosecution seem to have ignored . And wasn't there any forensics at the murder scene ? So why does the whole trial rest on Connor phoning Marti at the time of the murder ? Dumb . Dumb . Dumb . And it's as predictable as it is brainless . My abiding memory of this film is that for someone who made the winter Olympics Marti Gerrard is a really crap downhill skier
Weird Film That Only Appeals To The Pretentious	I fail to see the appeal of REPO MAN . I concede that it contains a good opening hook where a policeman stops a car , opens the trunk and gets a nasty surprise . But after that the movie , like , the characters , just drives around aimlessly . It resembles a lot of movies of the period in that the musical soundtrack is more important than the thin narrative , but what makes it even worse is the painfully episodic quality of the storytelling . Just look at the number of scenes that feel they've been edited in the wrong order . I know that the sub genre known as " road movies " aren't famous for their tightly plotted structure . On top of that can anyone really explain the plot ? There's a difference between a cerebal film where the audience have to join up the dots but that's entirely different from one where the plot is absent . Director / screenwriter Alex Cox did later redeem himself with the biopic SID AND NANCY but seemed to disappear from the radar afterwards . The reason he's best remembered as being the presenter of the BBC's MOVIEDROME is that his films fail to appeal to a mainstream audience and REPO MAN greatly reflects this
A Steaming Pile Of Cattle Dung	A couple of weeks ago I had a get together with a bunch of Matt Johnson ( Aka The The ) fans down in London and a couple of people I'd met there , namely Duncan and Ange , had like me attended film school . As in these type of situations the topic of conversation soon got round to lamenting the demise of the British film industry . It may sound bitter but we all agreed that the reason was because the industry in this country is crippled by nepotism with people getting their movies financed simply because they know the right people , not because they have any obvious talent MAD COWS is a case in point . Apparently it's based on a novel by Australian Kathy Lette which probably explains how her husband Geoffry Robertson managed to get a walk on part in this movie . Robertson isn't a professional actor which means a member of Equity has been deprived of an income . Actually at least one other actor has also been deprived since Mohamed Al Fayed the owner of Harrods also appears in a walk on part . As for the actors who have paid their dues to Equity I wasn't impressed . Anna Friel spends the movie with an entirely unconvincing Aussie accent while Joanna Lumley is abysmal since she recreates her role as Patsy Stone from ABSOLUTELY FABULOUS The supporting cast I will reserve judgement on because I've a feeling that the director Sara Sugarman is more to blame than the actors themselves . A case in point is an interrogation by a detective who has arrested the heroine for stealing a packet of frozen peas ( A pathetic plot twist ? Glad you agree with me ) and my gut instinct is that the scene was hopelessly unfunny to begin with but instead of the director beating the screenwriter to death with a limp script Ms Sugarman has told the actor in question to put on a funny speech impediment and other clown mannerisms . No doubt the cast have nothing but kind words about working with Sara Sugerman but you don't make a movie to enjoy yourself - You make a movie to let the audience enjoy themself and there's no enjoyment here as we have to endure silly performances , MTV style direction in a very plot less and episodic story that is a kick in the guts to anyone who has struggled to make it in the movie business in this country But at least MAD COWS proves once and for all that it's not what you know in the British movie industry - It's who you know
Even By Roberts Standards This Is Poor	Oh dear , a week after reviewing STILETTO DANCE I said I thought Eric Roberts deserved better films then along comes RESTRAINING ORDER which made me think he deserves all he gets POSSIBLE SPOILERS On the surface this film may sound similar to I CONFESS or ABSOLUTION but whatever potential intelligence that may have been found within the premise is soon forgotten as the film becomes more and more dumb . In fact it becomes downright offensive in the way it treats its audience . A good example is the bit where the plot revolves around a video recording which is seen to be destroyed , then without any explanation whatsoever another video recording suddenly comes into possesion of the hero ! What , he made another recording ? Why wasn't this mentioned on screen ? Or the bit where a character puts the silencer on a gun meaning he must be a villain about to commit murder - but then it's revealed he's a good guy who saves the hero's wife . In that case why did he need a silencer ? So you see there's no type of internal logic in this movie . Note to Eric Roberts : Can you change both your agent and hairdresser please ? Note to Tatjana Patitz : Stick to modeling because you're no actress
A Stroke Of Genius . . . .	. . . . No I don't mean the movie I mean the fact that in this American TVM the bad guy is a foreigner and he's not British . Wow what a stroke of genius that is , the genuis . Unfortunately that's the only radical thing about CABIN PRESSURE . Despite not being British the villain is one major cliche , a computer geek who wears a red polo neck sweater , green cords , greasy hair and spectacles , and who's a socially inept loner whose only friend is a spider . This goes beyond cliche and becomes close to offensive . Within 20 minutes you're wishing the computer geek is from Britain and is played by Gary Oldman or Sean Bean . And even if the producers had the money for a big name Brit actor there's no way a star name would want to sully their reputation by appearing in this rubbish . And make no mistake this is rubbish . The bad guy is unconvincing as is the hero who's a former alcoholic . I guess being a bland cypher he need an identifiable character flaw but that doesn't disguise the fact that he's just there to spout lines and save the day . But the lack of characterisation is the least of the problems with the script , let's look at the whole concept of a computer controlled plane : isn't there something totally ridiculous with the whole concept ? I mean I'm sure that in real life someone has thought up the whole idea and dismissed it precisely on the grounds of someone hacking into the controls . Oh look out for a very contrived plot twist where someone turns up at the hospital after being bitten by a funnel web spider , which also leads to a plot hole by the hero not asking about an Austin Powers lookalikeSo what would I have done with the script ? It's very simple , one of the characters on the plane is Senator Caulfield who is on the plane with his son and daughter in law . The daughter in law is called Brandee and she is a very fit blonde and the whole film would have worked if it was set around the premise of the computer geek being a bit of a perv and demanding the senator have sex with Brandee or else he will crash the plane . This would lead to cinema goers all over the world to discuss INDECENT PROPOSAL type questions like " If some pervy geek had hacked into a plan's control system would you have depraved sex with your father in law if your life depended upon it ? "
I Got This Confused With Something Else	Ah yes HIDEOUS KINKY that's the one with Kate Winslet getting abducted by a cult and Harvey Keitel races to save the day . I was slightly confused as to why Keitel's name didn't appear in the credits but this is for the simple reason that I had got this movie mixed up with HOLY SMOKE . I won't bother to apologise , it's an easy mistake to make Actually I would have enjoyed Harvey Keitel turning up in this film blowing away a few bad guys because this would have given HIDEOUS KINKY some male appeal since this is a dreary chick flick about nothing much of interest . Julia is a single mother who takes her two young daughters to Morocco , so there you go that's the plot summed up . Anymore comments ? Not much except to say I thought Julia was one helluva poor role model for mothers everywhere . She doesn't mind letting her daughters see her rolling around in bed with a man she's just met , or letting them live in some drug fuelled doss house full of hash heads . In truth women like Julia should be barred from having childrenAnd film makers should be banned from making low concept feature films like HIDEOUS KINKY unless they feature Harvey Keitel blowing away bad guys
Too Melodramatic	BORN TO KILL is known as LADY OF DECEIT in Britain and I chanced upon it this afternoon when it was shown on BBC 2 . I'm very surprised at the acclaim it's received on these pages because - With the exception of the premise which did have some potential - I found it a very irritating movieI also take some exception to BORN TO KILL being described as " Film noir " when in fact it's a totally heavy handed melodrama . Even it's American title conjures up over the top images does it not ? The most irritating thing about the movie is the way it talks down to the audience , there's little intelligence or subtlety involved . Every dramatic ( Read melodramtic ) scene drowns in the most intrusive music possible . Dialogue borders from the ridiculous like for example where one of the baddies asks " Do you know what it's like to be murdered ? To feel metal going through your body ? " which is a very strange thing to ask someone who has never been dead , to the painfully obvious where a front door is being violently knocked : " I phoned the police " a character says . You got that ? A character phoned the police , it's the police who are violently banging the door . The audience have grasped the plot point of the police arriving , so why did the screenwriter and director feel it necessary to have an out of view policeman shout " It's the police , open up " ? I suppose the screenwriter deserves some credit by having a major protagonist's fate explained via a newspaper headline in the final scene but for the most part I found this movie completely overbearing . Mind you THE BIG COMBO wasn't exactly a subtle film either and that's a film noir classic
A Big Tease	There's an old saying that you can fool all the people some of the time and THE HAUNTING proves this . You can just imagine the producers walking down to the marketing department and saying " Remember to publicise the fact that Miss Zeta - Jones plays a bisexual and she's stuck in a haunted house with a man and a woman " . It's no coincidence that when this was released that every reviewer made the point that Catherine Zeta - Jones plays a bisexual who's stuck in a haunted house with a man and a woman . In fact there couldn't be a single red blooded man who stood outside a cinema in the pouring rain waiting to see THE HAUNTING who wasn't aware Miss Zeta - Jones plays a bisexual stuck in a haunted house with a man and a woman . Only problem is that the audience only finds out Miss Zeta - Jones character is bisexual is because she says so in one throwaway line and her sexuality is never followed up . She could be a celibate for all we know but no doubt a film where Catherine Zeta - Jones plays a celibate is a lot more difficult to market than one where she's bisexual . That's one good reason not to watch THE HAUNTING . Another good reason is the fact that becomes very obvious is the script was written around the tedious FX . The whole film degenerates into crap CGI and morphing effects which you've seen before in a hundred other - better - films . Note to Hollywood producers : Never EVER call bisexual or celibate characters Theo
Too Right Wing For My Taste . . . .	. . . . Though that's only to be expected . It's not like anyone is going to confuse John Wayne with Jimmy Carter or Bill Clinton are they ? , so when you have a movie about the Duke escorting a bunch of refugees downriver from Red China you know what to expect ie all Chinese who aren't commies are brave and noble and could easily pass as WASPish Americans while all communist Chinese are drunk , stupid and rape anything that moves . Like THE GREEN BERETS there's no racism involved since the point is made - And it's as subtle as hitting someone over the head with a sledgehammer - that we shouldn't judge people on the colour of their skin only on the colour of their politics . If you liked THE GREEN BERETS you'll like this . I didn't but there is some irony involved in seeing John Wayne dressed in the uniform of red army officer
Too Old Fashioned	It wasn't until the 1970s that unapologetic anti-war sentiment appeared in war movies on a regular basis . My humble opinion on this is that it's a wonderful thing . Honesty , angst and intelligence come together to make some of the greatest films of the late 20th century which include CROSS OF IRON , APOCALYPSE NOW , DAS BOOT and PLATOON . If there was any type of bad point to this it's that it makes previous war films appear very dated and quaint . THE FLYING LEATHERNECKS is a case in point . Right from the opening sequence we're left in no doubt that this is a patriotic flag waver despite the second world war ending six years earlier but you must remember that America was engaged in a very bloody war in Korea at the time of production . The story plays out much as expected with a strict no nonsense by the book disciplinarian taking charge of a bunch of over eager flyboys . Despite the very clichéd plot we're introduced to the characters in a very economical way where we instantly know who everyone is and the script isn't afraid to kill off characters so the screenplay does deserve some creditBut the main failure isn't so much with the script it's with the directing or more specificaly the action scenes which are composed of real film footage . As people have already commentated this completely jars with the ( too obvious ) studio work . There's also something very objectionable watching a film which features sequences of real human beings being killed and maimed in conflict . Let's not beat around the bush here THE FLYING LEATHERNECKS is from a moral standpoint something of a snuff movie
Dreary True Life TVM	In Britain we have a show called 999 where real life disasters are reconstructed on screen . I don't know if there is an equivalent show in the US but watching WITHOUT WARNING made me think I was watching a feature length episode of 999 because this TVM is filmed entirely on video tape so it can be intercut with real life footage of the 1993 world trade centre bombing and feels too much like a reconstruction than a drama . It's all rather understated and fairly undramatic but I suppose that's better than the glossy PEARL HARBOR approach of having hunky up and coming stars shouting " Get me a damn firehose " and running into a blazing building in slo-mo . And I guess there is some irony of seeing a then pre ER George Clooney spending much of this TVM in a hospital bed as an injured fireman . But it's impossible nowadays to write the initials WTC or hear the words " World trade centre " without thinking of the date
Let There Be Light	Apart from the fact that this film was made ( I suppose it seemed a good idea at the time considering BOTTOM was so popular ) the one thing that puzzled me about GUEST HOUSE PARADISO was what happened to the lighting ? There is absolutely no artificial lighting used in this film whatsoever , and I watched it on network TV so it wasn't a case of watching a dodgy tape . In fact the film was shot so darkly it was impossible to see what the hell was going on . But if the dialogue was anything to go by that's maybe not a bad thing
Shred It Untill It's Dead	Coming up with a generic plot is often compared to shuffling a pack of cards in order to come up with a slightly different plot each time . Unfortunately by the end of the 20th century the pack of cards entitled " Bunch of teenagers get stalked and killed " had been shuffled to death and what the post modernist humour of SCREAM did was bury the pack once and for all . Guess how the producers of SHREDDER ( A made for video movie released in 2002 ) take a new approach ? That's right they make the teenagers snowboarders ! Just to explain the reason why teenagers get bumped off in these type of movies is to introduce a subtest of proteastant ethics . Horny teenagers both slappers and studs who have sex just for the fun of it must be horribly murdered as retribution for being promiscuous while the gutsy virgin must survive the film as reward for keeping her honour , but unless I'm missing something there's not one honourable virgin ( Well female ones ) in this movie or any sympathetic character at all . In fact if I bumped into any of these characters in real life I'd be hard pressed not to put an ice pick through their heads . Oh and there's a scene at the end that can be described as cheating . I won't spoil it for you but you'll know the scene when you see it . If there's any film producers out there thinking of making yet another movie about horny teenagers getting sliced and diced can you please consider another career option
The BBC Announcer Didn't Really Spoil It For Me	I'm taking no chances - POSSIBLE SPOILER - just in case " A mutant rodent terrorises a graveyard in our late film now " said the BBC announcer as THE DARK started which may have ruined the film for me , but to be honest there isn't enough of a film here to ruin because as the announcer said this film is more or less summed up in one line : A mutant rodent terrorises a graveyard . Is this a good idea for a film ? I didn't think so either . You could stick up for it by claiming it's a homage to 1950s B movies but that's stretching it a bit , and the production values are very poor , the sort of thing you'd expect from a straight to video film . Not only that there's lots of little irritants such as if it's set in Canada ( And this is obvious from the accents ) then why's the bad guy an American FBI man ? Where'd this mutant rodent come from ? And most importantly of all does Lance Henriksen know he's been cloned ?
Very Disappointing	SPOILERS I really enjoyed SHE CREATURE from the creature features series so I was looking forward to this instalment but I was so very disappointed with it . This is more or less a remake of XTRO . Okay maybe it's not as bad as the British video nasty since it does make some sense but it's still a cliched tale of a misunderstood alien boy who awaits the return of his father in a space ship . There's few shocks to be had in this predictable tale and the only stomach churning scene involves that guy from MEMENTO having sex with a nurse . What's stomach churning about that ? Well I'm not talking about Guy Pearce who played Lenny I'm talking about the guy who played Sammy , and the nurse is middle aged and must weigh about 280 pounds so it's sick bags ahoy
Totally Confusing	I heard that Scottish stadium rock gods Simple Minds were doing the music to this show which pricked my interest . Don't laugh but Simple Minds were a great rock band in the 1980s even though they shot themselves in the foot a decade later by continually bringing out the same album ala Status Quo and Oasis every alternative year The opening scene has a great hook as a couple of smack dealers sit in their drug dealing den cutting up heroin . A couple of balaclava wearing machine gun toting vigilantes execute them , pour petrol over the place and run out as the den explodes and the theme tune and opening credits start . A breath taking start but the theme tune by Simple Minds is Waterfront from Sparkle In The Rain which is disappointing since I'd been led to believe that the music the band were doing for THE JUSTICE GAME was entirely original . One of the vigilantes , a tough former soldier , is arrested and is represented by his lawyer Dominic Rossi played by Denis Lawson . So far so good and by the end of the first episode we're treated by intriguing scenes like an old man being stabbed to death by a gang at a bus stop . However the plot goes AWOL by the end of the second episode and the third episode ends with Rossi interviewing some big wig who caught AIDS in Thailand . In the fourth episode Rossi gets his client off on a murder charge who then takes advantage of the double jeopardy rule ( ie Even if he admits the crime he can't be prosecuted twice for the same crime ) so tells Rossi everything he knows . Alas he does so off camera which doesn't enlighten the audience as to what's going on and the climax takes place at a deserted warehouse which involves a female sniper shooting one of the bad guys pursuing Rossi To say this viewer was confused is a mild understatement . Writer John Brown also wrote the totally confusing THE ONE GAME which like this was a case of The Emporers New Clothes . That is everyone is too embarrassed to admit they didn't understand so will praise it as being intelligent and complex instead . Things like the old guy getting knifed at the bus stop are never explained and we never find out why the female sniper saved Rossi's life or even who she was . We also get to hear another track by Simple Minds in the final episode , Earth That You Walk Upon from the Sons And Fascination album which again disappointed since I'd been led to believe the SM soundtrack was going to be totally original and come to think of it that was the only reason I watched this bitterly disappointing thriller
Possibly The Worst In The Series	I don't know if the CARRY ON series was past its sell by date in 1976 but you get the impression that no one is even trying to make a funny comedy here . It lacks many of the regulars like Jim Dale and Kenneth Williams and sees them replaced by the likes of Patrick Mower who lack the essential comic timing the regulars brought to the series . Perhaps worst of all is the casting of Windsor Davies and Melvyn Hayes in very similar roles they had in the popular military comedy IT AIN'T HALF HOT MUM If the movie had played out like a feature length episode of IT AIN'T HALF HOT MUM it wouldn't have been so bad but the simple plot of guys and gals trying to get it on under the nose of a new commanding officer is painfully unfunny as are the gags , I mean when one of the funniest jokes revolves around a trio of characters called Ready , Willing and Able you know the writers David Pursall and Jack Seddon aren't trying
Rhymes With The Word Night	This involves Bruce Willis playing a shrink whose patients are getting bumped off one by one . The shrink is also having a sexual relationship with someone young enough to be his daughter and the film goes like this . . . . Cut to group therapy session with actors you've seen in ALIENS and THE TWO TOWERSCut to shrink having sex with girl young enough to be his daughterCut to patient getting killed in a gory mannerSounds exciting doesn't it ? Well it's not , it's crap and Bruce Willis has all the charisma of a blue collar worker in a redneck town , but I guess it could have been worse because within ten minutes I was certain that I knew who the killer was ( And just by reading this review you might come to the same conclusion who it is ) but I was slightly surprised at the revelation at the end . It didn't stop the film from being rubbish though
It's Rancid Alright	This is a film that had a lot to live down to . on the year of its release legendary film critic Barry Norman considered it the worst film of the year and I'd heard nothing but bad things about it especially a plot that was criticised for being too complicated To be honest the plot is something of a red herring and the film suffers even more when the word " plot " is used because as far as I can see there is no plot as such . There's something involving Russian gangsters , a character called Pete Thompson who's trying to get his wife Sarah pregnant , and an Irish bloke called Sean . How they all fit into something called a " plot " I'm not sure . It's difficult to explain the plots of Guy Ritchie films but if you watch any of his films I'm sure we can all agree that they all posses one no matter how complicated they may seem on first viewing . Likewise a James Bond film though the plots are stretched out with action scenes . You will have a serious problem believing RANCID ALUMINIUM has any type of central plot that can be cogently explained Taking a look at the cast list will ring enough warning bells as to what sort of film you'll be watching . Sadie Frost has appeared in some of the worst British films made in the last 15 years and she's doing nothing to become inconsistent . Steven Berkoff gives acting a bad name ( and he plays a character called Kant which sums up the wit of this movie ) while one of the supporting characters is played by a TV presenter presumably because no serious actress would be seen dead in this The only good thing I can say about this movie is that it's utterly forgettable . I saw it a few days ago and immediately after watching I was going to write a very long a critical review warning people what they are letting themselves in for by watching , but by now I've mainly forgotten why . But this doesn't alter the fact that I remember disliking this piece of crap immensely
Avoid	THE TOM BAKER YEARS differs very much from the previous three YEARS tapes , all of Baker's episodes existed in the BBC archives unlike the William Hartnell and Patrick Troughton eras ( Which was the original idea behind the Hartnell and Troughton YEARS tapes ) so here we see Tom Baker commenting on a clip from every story he starred in . You could vaguely describe this as a precurser to the commentary tracks used on present day DVD features but that would probably be too kind as I get the feeling it was released just to fleece DOCTOR WHO fans . The clips shown are more often than not poor choices with a clip from Genesis Of The Daleks being devoid of any Daleks or their creator Davros while The Invasion Of Time clip doesn't feature the Sontarans who are one of the most popular villains from the series . Worst of all THE TOM BAKER YEARS was released on a two tape set costing £20 when it could have easily have fitted on a single tape for ten quid Baker makes a gives a few anecdotes and has a dead pan sense of humour , but often he fails to remember details or names of stories , forgets the name of aliens and even fails to recall the name of one of his assistants ( She's called Leela ) which leads me to believe it's a tape designed just to cash in on the show's popularity amongst die hard fans . It's worth watching if you can borrow a copy for free but I'd certainly avoid paying money to see it
Spare Us The Lovey Dovey Stuff	This despite its title is a love story rather than a biopic of James Dean . The film starts with a voice over from Pier Angeli and the first 40 minutes revolves around her romance with James Dean which is a severe disappointment if you're watching this expecting to learn much about the legend that was James Dean . The only bits that rise above mediocre is when the film ignores the love story and concentrates on Dean's career , his fireworks with the Hollywood film makers , and his explanation on " Group dynamics " to a young gang leader . But that's not enough to save the film from being a waste of time . And I'd just like to add my voice to the chorus that if it wasn't for the inclusion of a few swear words I would have staked my life that this was a TVM . It contains all the production values and flaws that TVMs are infamous for
Not Much Of A Pleasure	Interesting to note that the reviewers have commented at some length on the beauty of the actresses involved . Yes they certainly are attractive but even in soft core terms ( And we're speaking very soft core here ) the acting is very wooden . Not only that but it features probably the most unconvincing love making scenes I've ever seen in these type of films , or indeed any type of film . Compare the sex scenes seen here with those seen in RITA SUE AND BOB TOO or BASIC INSTINCT and tell me what's the more convincing sex scene
More Controversy For Controversy's Sake	Larry Clark might think he's made a movie that will get people all over the world talking . It got me talking . It made me say " More controversy for the sake of it " YAAAAWWWNNN . But to be fair to Clark there's no such thing as bad publicity so any movie that sickens an audience with AIDS , rape , drug taking and violence all involving characters in their early teens can only be a good thing . Right Larry ? Clark might also think he's making a naturalistic movie by using a cast of total unknowns many of whom have no acting experience but the performances aren't natural - They're simply awful . Look at Leo Fitzpatrick who plays Telly , have you ever seen a more irritating performance ? Fitzpatrick does deserve some faint praise since he's the most outstanding non actor in a movie overwhelmed by outstanding non actors I have tried to appreciate Clark's later works like TEENAGE CAVEMAN but this director always goes out of his way to shock his audience usually with 15 years old saying " I want to fck you so much baby " and then getting down to the dirty deed while taking drugs . This very quickly becomes puerile and unworthy of discussion . How about making a movie with a plot and no sex Larry ? Or is that beyond your talents ?
Not Much Yuck For Your Buck	If there's one good thing about genetic engineering it is that it allows film makers to have a ready made plot to kick start a movie . Alas many film makers use genetic engineering to kick start not very good movies . I could have put the boot into FANGS , in fact I could have kicked its teeth in , but I often get too serious about reviewing films I didn't like much , and I'm in a fairly nice mood , and FANGS is fairly inoffensive and is not to be taken seriously from the opening sequence with the teenage bimbo lab assistants all the way through to the silly protection against bat attack this is a goofy dumb movie , but at least it's a well lit goofy dumb movie that doesn't use gore for gore's sake
I Didn't Scream But Boy Did I Yawn	A pair of newly weds move into the family mansion in the late 18th century but unfortunately new bride Catherine keeps seeing ghostly apparitions and the bad news for her husband is that it usually happens just before she consumates the marriage . This is why sex before marriage is essential nowadays chaps you don't want a frigid wife screaming before bedtime , during bedtime of course is a different matter . Mind you Catherine does have a cracking pair of lungs so obviously she's excercised them a lot . But apart from Catherine's lungs there's not much in this film that held my interest apart from a few unintentional errors like the obvious stunt man falling down the stairs or the wood cutter who's the spitting image of Rod Hull . I should also point out - As people have done on this page - that Peter Cushing doesn't appear untill well into the second half
Too Low Concept	TREES LOUNGE is a film about Tommy Basilio , an unemployed mechanic who spend most of his time drinking in a bar or snorting drugs . " What's so compelling about this movie ? " you ask , well I think you've hit the nail on the head with that question because there's nothing really compelling about TREES LOUNGE . It's a really low concept ( ie character based story ) movie where not much happens . Written , directed and starring Steve Buscemi it feels like one of those indie projects actors come up with now and again to increase their cred with major Hollywood studios and I'm guessing Buscemi ploughed much of his own money into the project so maybe I shouldn't be too critical ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! I should perhaps also give some praise to Buscemi for writing a screenplay with an obvious subtext of never getting what you want : Tommy want's to snort yet more drugs but someone comes into the bathroom , Tommy wants to take a woman he's picked up in a bar but she falls asleep while he's in the bathroom , a young kid wants to buy an ice cream but the ice cream man suddenly has a heart attack , so the theme to this movie is very clear . Such a pity realism takes precedence over an exciting plot
Badly Made Survivalist Shocker	I haven't seen DEF-CON 4 for several years and if it's as bad as I remember it I hope to never see it again . The story is grim and lacks credibility . A space station witnesses the third world war and a trio of survivors wait for the radiation levels to drop so they can return to Earth , and when they return they find that the survivors are well armed barbarians where it's survival of the fittest This movie doesn't concern itself with the intellect of post apocalypse authors like John Wyndham or John Christopher , it's trying to be similar in genre to the likes of MAD MAX etc . The problem is that it doesn't have the budget to do so . We see no devastated cities and most of the action takes place in North American woodland which is an obvious budgetery descion on the part of the producers and not a creative one . There probably wasn't much of a movie to start with but if there was the exploitive scenes take it down to an even lower level . For example the hero walks through woodland ( Did I mention most of the action takes place in the sticks ? ) and comes across a bunch of survivors who are carving up a roast dinner - A human leg ! There's another scene with a severed arm and a couple of other gory scenes . I know that the likes of 28 DAYS LATER and THE OMEGA MAN suffer from gaps in logic but at least they're entertaining and enthralling unlike this contrived unsympathetic mess
Not A Remake	Don't be fooled into thinking that this is a remake as in this years remake of THE TIME MACHINE is based on an earlier film . It's not because this is a pointless re - film . That is the director has used the original camera script shot for shot similar to the " remake " of THE GET AWAY from a few years ago . The scenes are identical to the original , the dialogue is identical to the original , the camera angles are identical , no attempt whatsoever is made to embellish or restructure the original script , ( But with a director like Van Sant at the helm we should be thankful . He sure ain't no Hitchcock ) in fact I might even be correct in saying the costumes might be the same because the private eye wears a pork pie hat . Didn't they go out of fashion in the late 1960s ? Bottom line : Avoid
ZZZZZZZZZZZ	This got shown on BBC 1 just before midnight so I was expecting another American TVM . But as it started I was slightly surprised to find THE INNOCENT SLEEP was a British thriller , unfortunately it's not a very good one The problem is that it's not just run of the mill but also treats the characters as stereotypes . All homeless people are either Scottish or scousers except for one old gentleman who is of course very high class , and all of them without exception alkies . Gangsters are of course either cockneys or Italians who of course all smoke cigars . All policemen are either corrupt or stupid while all journalists are of course workaholics who leave no stone unturned as they crusade to cover the truth . As much as the plot tries to twist and turn you still find yourself expecting more from a modern British thriller . Maybe I'd have been better off with an American TVM
Dire Post Apocalypse Thriller	Planet Earth has suffered a terrible environmental disaster so humanity now survives underground split in to different religious cults . What caused the catastrophe ? I have no idea ? why is humanity split in to different ecclesiastical factions ? I have no idea . Since the surface of the Earth can no longer support human life how are the humans able to grow crops in order to feed the population ? I have no idea . What sort of producer thought this screenplay deserved to receive funding ? I have no idea SHEPHERD is one of these films that creeps up late at night on cable channels . The sort of film where you consult the IMBb to see if it has any merits . The number of people who've commentated on SHEPHERD on this page hasn't yet reached double figures and this is a film that was released nine years ago . Perhaps the people who have never seen it are the lucky ones ? As for the rest of the plot it's very routine . Grumpy former cop Boris Dakota whose wife and child died several years previously meets a woman and her child and it's up to him to save their lives , almost like a futuristic western . Throw in a former wrestler who now runs the God channel , a fascist Christian bloke who's trying to snuff out Boris , a ventriloquist , some T & A for the sake of it and you've got a mess of a film . I guess after seeing this Neil Marshall's DOOMSDAY is possibly a masterwork of cinema in comparison
Truly Awful	This starts out with an alien spaceship being found during the blizt , a homage to QUATERMASS AND THE PIT no doubt but as the series progresses it comes more as an insult than a homage . I rate Nigel Kneale as television's greatest ever writer and QUATERMASS AND THE PIT as the greatest drama ever to have been transmitted under the telefantasy banner and to have INVASION EARTH pay homage in this way is an obscenity . INVASION EARTH is possibly the worst telefantasy series ever made by the BBC . It is truly awfulThe script is responsible , the opening episode features so many coincidences in order to bring the characters together it looses all credibility , but after the first episode it gets worse , concepts like the NDs ( They're the bad guys from another dimension I think ) polluting the water supply and kidnapping humans in order to carry out experiments on them are underdeveloped and badly explained while entire episodes are padded out with the subplot of a Second world war army officer's journey through the galaxy with a race of good aliens . All this is unnecessary to the plot , at least I think it is because I'm not sure what the plot is , describing the plot of INVASION EARTH is like describing the plot of a James Bond film , lots of things happen but none of it adds up to much . In which case I'll say in INVASION EARTH not much happens and none of it makes much sense . Truly awful
Doesn't Hold Up To Repeat Viewing	I remember first seeing this in 1980 as part of THE HAMMER HOUSE OF HORROR series and everyone was talking about it at school on Monday . I saw it for a second time last night and to be honest it's not much cop . It's just another predictable story of a newly wed couple getting lost and spending the night at a creepy mansion that's owned by a woman with a west country accent and being a horror story it's always bad news to spend a night at a mansion owned by someone with a west country accent Two things I noticed about watching it for the second time : First up is the very poor budget . Unless I'm imagining it there only seems to be one set used and the set designer hides this fact by using different furniture scene to scene ( I might be wrong of course ) while the werewolf make up is absolutely laughable . Secondly watching it a second time you can't fail to notice how predictably it all plays out . In many ways the story is structured like a whodunnit and just like any whodunnit it's only worth watching once at most
Another Waste Of Lottery Funds	The opening credits of THE FINAL CURTAIN rolled and the very first credit stated that this was a film produced by Universal Studios in conjunction with DNA films . I missed the rest of the credits because I was through the kitchen making a cup of tea but when I came back I was struck as to how the film played out because the whole style of the movie screamed " British lottery funding " . How could this be since the movie was financed by an American studio ? We're shown an all too long ex positional sequence complete with voice over showing diverse clips from THE BLACK AND WHITE MINSTRALS and DOCTOR WHO in a movie that uses the technique of a TRAINSPOTTING wannabe . Two things I found out after the film had finished were that THE FINAL CURTAIN was written by TRAINSPOTTING adapter John Hodge and that the movie was indeed funded by the national lottery This explains a lot because say what you like about Hollywood studios but at least they know what the public want and the public don't want to see a pile of nepotistic crap with zero money making potential . Lottery funding has killed the British film industry in many ways because it has stopped film makers earning their money . The producers get paid therefore they're under no pressure to make a film with any type of national or international appeal . For every 28 DAYS LATER there's ten movies like THE TANGO LESSON and IT WAS AN ACCIDENT and THE SLAB BOYS , films that should be drowned at birth and which this film goer would pay good money NOT to see . Be honest , despite an avalance of British film releases in the last ten years how many do you think are genuinely good movies ? The story ( If that is the right word ) revolves around the rivalry between two hideously successful game show hosts JJ Curtis and Dave Turner . If you want to understand how unrealistic this scenario is then imagine Chris Tarrant and Chris Evans embarking on a murder campaign against one another . A ridiculous idea for a storyline isn't it ? but not that the producers , screenwriter and director care . You can just imagine them holding their sides laughing as someone is asked to give JJ a circumcision or as someone is electrocuted . Guess what ? I never thought I'd start laughing and I didn't . And by making Curtis and Turner so unlikable there's no empathy for the audience . Having these characters as protagonists means to the audience it's kind of like being Polish during the second world war where you had Hitler to the West and Stalin to the East . No matter who wins the audience will be the loser I'm actually shocked that people have come on to this page and awarded THE FINAL CURTAIN high marks or the fact that 115 voters have given it an average rating of 5 . 8 when a more realistic score would be in the region of half that because this is a fairly terrible film made by people who are far too lazy to make anything resembling a half way decent one
Computer Games Should Not Be Made Into Movies	I know there's a ready made market for films based on computer games but shouldn't film makers also cater for people who have never played the game ? Why not make a film based on a video game with an involving storyline , and decent acting and half decent fight scenes with real martial arts stars ? , at least that way you'll appeal to a wider market . All these things are missing from this film version of MORTAL KOMBAT . In fact it's so bad that it doesn't feel like a film based on a computer game but more like aa advert for a film based on a computer game . Weird huh ?
Disappointed After Seeing It Again	I had very fond memories of DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY after seeing it many years ago . The ending is very memorable and featured in the title sequence of the popular Lee Majors show THE FALL GUY and every teenage boy can can remember a Susan George movie I saw the movie again a few nights ago and I was very disappointed with it . The central plot of carrying out a heist is a sound one but doesn't seem very well developed and seems more of an excuse to kick start the movie into a road chase . I've always thought that if Peter Fonda had a birth name of Jones and was related to a bunch of factory workers then there would have been no way that he'd have become a movie star and seeing him in DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY does nothing to change my opinion . The role of Deke seems to have been written for Jack Nicholson therefore Adam Roarke does a very bad impression of Jack Nicholson while it's obvious that in many scenes Susan George's voice is dubbed which is very distracting . Yeah I know a lot of women will confirm that their husbands get distracted by an on screen appearance from Ms George but that's not what I meant But perhaps the worst aspect to the movie is the dialogue which tries to be very clever and ends up being very unnatural and forced . Take this example : " Every bone in her crotch . That's what I'm gonna break " Does that sound witty or just plain silly ? I could have used countless other examples too Mind you this movie did make a fairly large profit in relation to its production costs but it is rather obvious here that the road movie is a very self limiting genre and if you can't remember the 1970s you probably won't think much of DIRTY MARY CRAZY LARRY
The Title Sums It Up	Many years ago there was a contributer to this website called Tim Cox who wrote countless reviews which never seem to be composed of much more than three lines . I noticed the director of ALIEN LOCKDOWN is also called Tim Cox and I wonder if they're both the one and the same since one's respective reviews are as threadbare as this movie The title tells you everything you need to know about the plot . Scientists messing around with nature and it's up to a bunch of macho US marines to try and save the day , most of whom get eaten by the eponymous monster . I guess Mr Cox deserves some credit since it's obvious he doesn't have a Cameron style budget to play with . Maybe that's why he seems to have overused a green filter on the camera in order to disguise the poor production values ?
Not Among The Elite Of Action Movies	MILD SPOILERS The title sequence of ELITE features some very obvious exposition ( Just like THE A TEAM ) telling the story of how an elite business cartel are killed in a terrorist attack and how the victims children are brought by a shadowy government department to be trained as an anti terrorist unit , an elite anti terrorist unit , an elite anti terrorist unit composed of spoiled brats . It should be pointed out that the title sequence is preceeded by an action sequence featuring a band of terrorists who detest American greed . I've also got to point out that having the terrorist attack take place before the title sequence somehow feels wrong . The title sequence should have been shown before the terrorist raid . After the title sequence we're shown what these spoiled rich kids are capable of , and boy are they capable of anything , they can defuse a nuclear missile , blow away hundreds - And I'm talking literally of hundreds - of bad guys without suffering a scratch and show us what lovely white teeth they have . I guess being part of an elite anti terrorist has its benefits since they all obviously have access to elite dental treatment - Is this why the movie is called ELITE ? The goes on and I found it very difficult to empathise with 20 something Americans with great hair and great teeth who can do absolutely anything in a tricky situation without suffering a scratch so I found myself siding with the anti capitilist villains which I suppose is something of a compliment to the screenwriter , all too often the motivation for the bad guys is too vague or too over the top unlike here where I could identify with the European villain who has a pathological hatred of globilization and free market economics . Only thing is I don't believe the audience were actually meant to identify so clearly with the bad guy , it was only after being battered over the head as to how well educated and well off the heroes were that I found myself cheering for the baddies in a film that feels like it was cross bred with GOLDENEYE and BEVERLY HILLS 90210
Doesn't Work	Wow an American version of the BBC comedy classic DAD'S ARMY ! What a masterstroke of stupidity , it's a bit like making an American version of FAWLTY TOWERS or a British version of MARRIED WITH CHILDREN who in their right minds would do that ? Oh hold on somebody has on both the latter countsThere's two things you should know . One is that both Britain the country and Britain the sit-com are divided by the class system , this is what makes DAD'S ARMY and umpteen other Brit sit-coms work . There's a third thing you should also know and that is America prides itself on being a classless society . Worked out where this comedy pilot might fall down ? So instead of a middle class bank manager credited with some authority looking down his nose at his peers the jokes in REAR GUARD tend to bounce off ethnic divides with a Jewish equivelent of Arthur Lowe telling his sargeant that " You can take the man out of the olive oil but you'll never take the olive oil out of the man " But don't panic people this never went to a full series . Strange too that the script is directly culled from the DAD'S ARMY episode about the captured U-boat . If you've seen the source episode you won't need me to tell you how flat everything is in comparison here . Nice to know someone at the TV studio ran up the white flag before anymore atrocities were committed I wonder if the show was named after Cpl Jones catchphrase " They don't like it up'em sir " ?
Infactual , Polemical , But What'd You Expect ?	SOME MOTHER'S SON starts with some archive video of Magaret Thatcher making a speech after winning the 1979 British general election followed by a sequence of British government officials getting together with one of them saying " The rules < On Northern Ireland and terrorism have changed > have changed , the policy is now isolation , criminalization and demoralization " . This is a very strange thing to say about the situation in Northern Ireland in 1979 since despite the change in government there was no change in policy . The IRA were making a grand job isolating themselves from the mainstream nationalist community throughout the 1970s with incidents like " Bloody Friday " which were killing and maiming as many catholics as protestants . Criminalization ? Well the IRA have always been outlawed on both sides of the border since partition in 1922 , oh and convicted terrorists , loyalisist or republican , lost all political status in 1976 . Anyone found convicted of terrorist convictions after March 1976 was no longer eligible for political status within the Northern Ireland prison system . This was introduced by the Labour government's Northern Ireland secetary Merlyn Rees not as insinuated here Thatcher's Conservative government . As for demoralization the Provisional IRA were very much demoralized before Thatcher came into government . By 1975 they realised unification with the South wasn't going to happen , had become embroiled in fueds with the Official IRA and loyalist terror groups while most of their members had been killed or imprisoned , not imprisoned in Long Kesh as in the early 1970s but in the new purpose built Maze with its strict regime ( Criminalization is a demoralizing thing ) while recruitment into the ranks was drying up ( If you go around blowing up innocent civilians you can expect this to happen ) , as I said Isolation , criminalization and demoralization weren't the invention of ThatcherAnother serious factual error that leapt out at me was the court room scene . In a Northern Ireland " Diplock " court used to try people up for terrorist offences ( Remember both loyalist and republican defendants were tried this way ) there's three judges used but here we see only one who is a toffee nosed Englishman as are the defence barristers . In most cases Diplock judges were Irish , as are defence and prosecuting attorneys , but not only are most defence lawyers Irish they're nearly all Irish catholics ! The most notorious loyalist murder gang " The Shankhill butchers " - whose idea of a good night out was to kidnap the nearest suspected catholic passerby and slowly skin him alive - where defended by a catholic lawyer , so how on earth a film that struts its credentials as being " Based on factual events " can get away with this misrepresentation of a Northern Ireland court is beyond me . There are also several iinaccurate details in geography and anachronisms like the Brits uniforms ( The polycarbide helmets they wear weren't introduced untill 1986 ) which I couldn't help but noticeThese above comments are facts which can't be disputed . They can't be disputed because they are facts , so I won't put too much opinion on SOME MOTHER'S SON . It is very well acted and it was very good to see that for a brief moment Helen Mirren's character Kathleen Quigley comes to the realisation that she's being manipulated by the IRA / Sinn Fein but this is a brief moment in a film that's preceeded by polemical opinion which screams " Britain is entirely responsible for the troubles " and finishes with a caption giving the names of the ten IRA / INLA hunger strikers . I guess it would have been too much to print the names of those murdered by these particular hunger strikers ?
Not Very Interesting	What this film has is its realism , you really do get the feeling screenwriter James Slater has been doing his homework on the subject of downhill skiing while director Michael Ritchie shoots the movie in a fly on the wall documentary style . However the problem is unless you're a big fan of the sport there's not a lot in DOWNHILL RACER to grab your attention . Before anyone asks why I watched it , I did so because it featured the great Gene Hackman in an early role but that's not really a good enough reason for watching
What Is This Crap About ?	I normally like Ben Stiller but I think with ZOOLANDER he has too many irons in too many fires . Directed by , written by and starring Ben Stiller proves you can have too much of a good thing . Stiller works best when he's playing it straight in a comic situation like THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY and MEET THE PARENTS , but here he's vainly trying to be funny and ends up being silly . The script might have worked if it just concentrated on male models ( Himbos ? Bimboys ? ) being pretentious with lines like " Of course models help people . We make them feel good about themselves and show them how to do their hair " . Even if it had stayed on the subplot about Derek Zoolander returning to his roots at the mining town the script might have had some saving graces , but no it suddenly turns into THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE where it loses all credibility and entertainment value . To see how satire on the male model industry works catch Sacha Baron Cohen's ALI G IN DA USA where he plays a gay Austrian male model
This Is Not A True Story Or An Accurate Bio-Pic	The problem with this movie is summed up in the very first scene where Rubin " Hurricane " Carter fights Emile Griffith for the world welterweight championship in 1963 . You might be surprised when I point out that Carter never fought Griffith for a world championship in 1963 though he did fight for the middlewight championship a year later against champion Joey Giardello who beat him on points with plenty to spare . You might also be shocked to know that Carter was never in fact much more than an average fighter who was well past his prime when arrested for murder so why this movie is making out that Rubin Carter would have been a boxing great if it wasn't for being WRONGLY convicted of murder I have no idea . At the very best Carter was a very mediocre journeyman fighter at best . Robinson , Hagler , Ali or Hearns he was not Oh yes he was WRONGLY convicted of murder and just to lay it on with a trowel a very early scene has the sadistic warder from THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION telling the wronged but noble Rubin to keep calm because he knows a cruel injustice has been done but there's nothing he can do to help . Meekly Rubin forgives his captor because that's who Rubin is - A noble forgiving paragon of humility , we're only three scenes into this movie and we're weeping tears for the guy , in fact you have to wonder why such a great guy was ever convicted of murder when he was a decorated war hero with a chest full of medals and we don't have to wait too long because it transpires that the cops are racist . We know they're racist because the arresting officer states " Your black ass is going down " , but that doesn't worry Rubin because he defiantly replies " I know I'm innocent " and he is , such a pity that the twelve jurors were all white and all racist and decided he was guilty simply because he was black . Thankfully justice is served though be it belatedly when a bunch of Canadians expose this terrible miscarriage of justice and Rubin is set free . Despite having his best years taken away from him Rubin bares no hatred towards the people who set him up . Compared to Rubin Carter Jesus Christ was a bitter and twisted man . It makes Washington's performance as Steve Biko in CRY FREEDOM look like an amateur performance in a school play . Or so we're led to believe This film is a total disgrace . It doesn't play hard and fast with the facts because there's little in the way of facts . As I pointed out he was never a contender for a world title so forget all the boxing scenes that suggest he was . You can also forget all about the racist arresting officer investigating the murder case because he's a composite character that includes at least one black detective so racism wasn't at the heart of the case . Rubin Carter was dishonourably charged from the army and never had a distinguished military career , the jurors in the case included two blacks and he was found guilty by a unanimous decision so having " a black ass " wasn't a motive for finding him guilty , he was finally released on a technicality not because he was innocent and there's umpteen other revisionist aspects to the story . If you read the FACTS ( Something the producers of this movie clearly haven't done ) of the Carter case you might not think he's guilty but you'll instantly realise that this story is entirely fictional . It's Hollywood rewriting history in the worst possible way . Okay there's an opening disclaimer pointing out that some of the characters are composites and some scenes are dramatized but people with no prior knowledge of the facts won't realise just how disgraceful this film is at changing facts into something entirely different I have awarded THE HURRICANE and it would have got even less if it wasn't for the good performances and some technical achievements in editing and cinematography
Budget ? What Budget ?	This has got to be one of the lowest budget films ever produced in Britain , and considering it's a British film that is indeed saying a lot . In fact it's somewhat insulting to consider NOT NOW COMRADE a " film " since as one contributer mentioned it's a stage play . It's like someone has gone into the local theartre with a film camera and started filming . The interiors resemble those you'd see in a theartre and you can clearly hear the CLUMP CLUMP CLUMP as the actors run around the wooden floors like you would in an auditorium . I guess some people might be pretentious pseudo-intellectuals and say the film has a self referential marxist theme because of the title and therefore that's why there's been no money spent but I'd say correctly that even in 1976 it would have been an outdated British B movie with limited appeal hence no one would want to invest money into it
I Can Hardly Remember The Original . . . .	. . . . But don't worry if you can't remember the original FORTRESS because you'll still find the sequel crap . Strangely enough there might have been some potential with this film . Oh I don't mean it would have been great or even good but we could have seen something along the lines of DEMOLITION MAN , a slightly cheeky film that doesn't take itself too seriously . I can imagine somewhere along the line that this was the plan with RE-ENTRY with scenes featuring an early morning exercise broadcast for the prisoners and a " Have a nice day " computer voice . However the more the film goes on the more you find yourself wondering if these satirical moments weren't just total flukes in the abysmal script which never seems to hint at anything resembling satire . And it should be pointed out that there's a massive gap in logic in having a mixed gender prison where the shower facilities are shared . Men and women in a shower . Men and 30 something women in a shower . Men and 30 something latino women in a shower . Men and 30 something latino women in a shower together ! I'm sorry but why would a repressive state send people - or rather men - to prison for the rest of their life if they're going to be sharing showers with 30 something latino women ? I mean where's the deterrence value in that ? Does this mean law abiding citizens get to shower with 20 something latino women every day ?
Something Of A Guilty Pleasure . . .	. . . Except there's no pleasure involved and I'd feel kind of guilty not warning you this is a very unfunny comedy I guess the producers were trying to dig into the market of the American Pie demographics or possibly of the SCARY MOVIE fans and in many ways it does seem to try to emulate the near the knuckle humour of these film series except at the last moment it pulls back . How many times watching this movie do you feel there's going to be a gross out punchline then at the very last moment it's cancelled ? This gives the whole film a very bizarre feel There's a vague plot involved with a property land developer trying to buy a snowboard resort but at no time does this feel cohesive to the screenplay in anyway because thge screenplay seems more concerned at trying to fit as many predictable , juveniule , unfunny gags as it can within the running time . It also says something when the two most famous cast members are Lee Majors and Victoria SilvstedtOUT COLD gave my funny bone frost bite
If This Isn't Unoriginal I Don't Know What Is	" Something is missing " whines John Larkin . I quite agree , an original script is missing , not to mention a big name star , a director who has made more than just TVMs , and a big budget . For the first ten minute of the film - oooopps sorry I mean TVM . There is a difference - the plot involves an everyman type suffering from strange dreams , finds his wife and lifestyle are not what they seem and discovers himself to be a hunted man . At any second I was expecting the line " If I'm not me then who the hell am I ? " to come out . Guess what film I'm referring to ? Sorry but Timothy Hutton isn't big Arnie or Jean Claude Van Damme , but he's not Steven Segal either so I guess DEAD BY MIDNIGHT could be worse and it does contain a mind blowing scene where the bad guy turns up at an orphanage and gives the long suffering TV viewer a good laugh with some of the worst acting I have ever seen
How Not To Write An Interesting Script	I can't believe so many people have written so many positive comments on THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS , personally I absolutely hated this movie due to the simple reason it has a ridiculous script structure . If you've never seen the movie let me point out that the audience are subjected a very lengthy pre title sequence featuring character exposistion with a voice over that goes on and on . The opening credits come and go and then we're subjected to more voice over . I can't give a clear answer as to how long this narration lasts for but it seemed to go on for several life times . I've nothing against narration or voice over , indeed two of my all time favourite movies FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and APOCALYPSE NOW feature this technique which leads me to believe that it's handeled wrongly . Another fault of Owen Wilson's script is the characters who are members of a very very rich family full of extremely gifted children . Is it just me or are poor little rich kids the least involving subject for a film ? No doubt fans of THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS will counter act my criticisms by pointing out that the script was Oscar nominated . My reply to them would be so what ? The script was written by actor Owen Wilson and the academy voters are over represented by actors . Actor Colin Welland won a screenplay Oscar as did Emma Thompson and let us not forget Ben Affleck won an Oscar for writing GOOD WILL HUNTING . Likewise look at all the actors who have won Oscars for directing . If an actor writes down a shopping list and films their visit to the local supermarket they'd be in line for best screenplay and director . Come to think of it I've had more fun going to the shops than I had watching THE ROYAL TENENBAUMS
Greenies Set Out To Destroy The World Again	If I have a problem with the modern environmental movement it's with their pacifism at all costs stance . You see the modern environmental movement was founded by quakers who's ethos of non violence is the primary idealogy of the green movement . This is to critical free thinkers a flawed ideal , after all how you going to deal with evil men like Adolph Hitler and Osama Bin Laden without using force ? So it's totally ironic that films always portray environmentalists as gun toting nutters . Can anyone remember these stupid holistic minded thrillers where Steven Seagal shows the world that ecology is all about blowing away everyone who works for an oil company ? Well it's the same with SECONDS TO SPARE though thankfully someone came up with a great idea to make the greenies the bad guys ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! There's some really twisted logic in this movie . The eco-terrorist leader Eve is against violence so she and her cohorts join up with a former CIA man ( Has there ever been a film where a former CIA man is shown in a good light ? ) and a Serbian war criminal ( Has there ever been a film where Serbs aren't war criminals ) get some guns , steal a large amount of nerve gas , blow up a nerve disposal unit killing everyone inside , hijack a train to use it as a missile , and it's only then Eve realises she's taking part in something a little more serious than a sit down protest ! Duh hello , Earth to Eve ? I suppose her full name must be Naive ? As for the rest of SECONDS TO SPARE it's basically one of those generic " Hero on a train that's full of hostages " thrillers , a bit like DEATH TRAIN or UNDER SIEGE 2 so it plays out in a fairly predictable manner as with scene of bad guy taking pretty blonde hostage to quiet part of train to rape her but hero pops up and kills bad guy , and scene with man in charge of operation making decision to save millions by sacrificing the hostages on the train . You've more chance of seeing Patrick Moore and Bjorn Lomborg rejoining Greenpeace than you have seeing the bad guys carry out their dastardly plan in this type of film
Too Crude To Be Successful	A couple find their daughter has been possessed by Satan so call in Father McFeely : " Our daughter won't let us near her Father " " Well I find giving them candy helps " There you go I've just given away the only halfway funny joke in the whole movie and I was totally puzzled why someone of James Woods stature was doing appearing in rubbish like this when he's not starring in TV movies or doing voice overs in video games . The rest of the cast are far less well known and long may that continue . I'll say one positive thing for them though and that's that they give performances that a dire and crude comedy like this deserves , either that or they're just a fairly poor cast . There might be some entertainment spotting what movie is being spoofed with everything from THE SHINING to DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS being targeted ( This gains an extra star ) but what ruins the movie is the ridiculous near the knuckle brand of comedy involved . It's not as bad as say FREDDY GOT FINGERED ( Another star in that case ) . I've nothing against bad taste comedy and one of my all time favourite comedy is THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY but that movie was genuinely funny , here we have a movie that is ridiculous , silly and rather offensive and got because it didn't feature Tom Green and I'm a film buff
Don't Confuse Opinion With Fact	There's a saying that " If you don't read newspapers you're uninformed . If you do read newspapers you're misinformed " and that's the problem I had with LIVE FOREVER , if you're uninformed about Britpop you'll be misinformed if you use this as your starting point , dangerously misinformed . The very first caption is from Alistair Campbell needs clarifying : yes in 1996-97 Britain was exporting music ( To the USA ) again but this was only down to a select handful of artists namely The Spice Girls , Bush , Elton John , The Prodigy and Radiohead and in no way was this period a golden age for British record exports . Noel Gallagher follows this caption by saying " The eighties were f all " - NO THEY WEREN'T . In terms of record sales they were the golden age of British musical export . One week in July 1985 had eight of the top ten acts in the US billboard charts by Brits while 40 % of the billboard 100 were by British artists . At the Band Aid concert held the same month each and every act at the London concert was from the British Isles while over 30 % of the acts appearing at the JFK stadium were Brits . " The 80s were f all " ? I don't think so Noel The other thing I disliked about this documentary is it's political bais towards Tony Blair's New Labour government where we're force fed Peter Mandelson's opinions of Mr Blair's standard of guitar playing ! Completely superflous in my opinion , though there is a bit of irony in all this when Noel Gallagher ( Yes him again ) tells us Oasis songs sum up the 1990s . Yeah well I think Heartland by The The ( Written in 1986 ) sums up Tony Blair's New Labour government and life in modern Britain perfectly , at least compared to the drinking songs Oasis released , and make no mistake that's all they are - drinking songs Despite falling international sales British music in the mid to late 90s was far superiour to ten years earlier , but let me just repeat very very few British bands sold any records in the USA at this time which means LIVE FOREVER works only as a nostalgia piece with a good soundrack and not as a historical or cultural document since it leads us to believe Britain was the centre of the musical , cultural and political universe which sadly it isn't and probably never will be again
Was It Made By Film Students ? . . . . .	. . . . because it doesn't look like it was made by professional film makers . XTRO has a really cheap and cheerless no budget production feel to it and is usual in these type of productions the make up and FX are totally unconvincing while the cast look like they're ashamed to be in a film like this . Even so there's no excuse for such bland performances especially Philip Sayers who looks like he's impersonating a block of wood rather than a man who's been abducted by aliens . What I really disliked about this film is the very underdeveloped script . There's no real explanation or logic as to why things happen . Take for example the scene where a character drives to a cottage then warns his companion to " Stay here " and enters the cottage with trepidation . There is absolutely no way the character would know he'd be in any danger by entering the cottage so why is he so nervous ? I think I can speculate as to why the panther appears though ( And unless you've seen the film the next couple of sentences will make no sense - just like the film itself ) The toy tank is supposed to be a version of the second world war German panther tank hence a panther appears . Only the toy tank is actually based on the tiger tank mark two aka King tiger , which means instead of a panther appearing in the flat a king tiger should have . It just shows you how bad XTRO is when the director tries to bring subtle irony to a senseless script and manages to screw that up . I'm led to believe that XTRO was banned on video in the 1980s which makes it one of the very few British " Video nasties " , perhaps the only British film to receive that accolade , but there's nothing here to churn your stomach . Churning your brain is another matter entirely
I Wonder If The Budget Reached Four Figures ?	I had a gut feeling as this started that I wasn't going to like it much . A couple of dudes open the trunk of an automobile , pull out several guns and start discussing the merchandise . Is this a Scorsese picture ? Is it a Tarantino picture ? No , it's a Brit flick and it's one with a totally underdeveloped script I could really put the boot into SHOOTERS due to the production values but that'd be slightly unfair , and I suppose I should admire the producers who instead of going cap in hand to the lottery fund decided to sink their own money into the project , but alas it is painfully obvious they were skint because compared to this the average film school production has the budget of TERMINATOR 3 in comparison , and let's not forget that 12 ANGRY MEN proves a lack of budget is no excuse for a badly written script
Very Dumb Thriller	I really do get the feeling that the producers of FROGMEN OPERATION STORMBRINGER haven't been doing their current affairs home work . A navy SEALS team is sent to capture Casper " The world's most dangerous terrorist " . First of all what self respecting terrorist calls himself " Casper " ? It conjures up images of a friendly ghost . I guess the producers were aware that having an Arab terrorist might be a little too near the knuckle so they've gone out of their way not to make this film too realistic which explains the errors of having Russians and Albanians on the same side , of America being involved in UN peace keeping in Bosnia before the Dayton peace accord etc . This isn't a film that's marketed as realistic and probably isn't as bad as the big budget BEHIND ENEMY LINES farce , but even so I'd have thought America's finest would have recognised the world's most dangerous terrorist when they spotted him which gives an indication of how dumb this film is Something I wish to point out is that the version I saw on Sky movies must have been re-edited in some way . One commentator mentioned a UN patrol being ambushed by the SEALS . The version I saw has them landing at a destination where a truck is waiting for them and no point do the SEALS jump a UN patrol . There also seems other bits missing which leads to some plot holes like how can a small rubber speed boat cause a massive explosionAs I said , a very dumb thriller
Seen It All Before	Hey a tough mercenary goes undercover as a teacher to gain revenge on a tough gang who are running drugs ! Where have I seen that movie before ? Hey I saw the exact same plot in a movie called THE SUBSTITUTE with Tom Berenger going into a tough inner school to wipe out a drugs gang . In fact both plots feature the new arrival going into class and telling the kids about ' Nam . If there's any difference between the movies it's that the sequel is even dumber than the original How dumb is it Theo ? Well for a start we see a tough gang of black kids wearing hoods similar to the KKK ! I'm just thinking that any homies dressed like the Klu Klux Klan might make themselves very unpopular with other gangs in the ghetto . But it gets dumber believe it or not . The gang tries to kill a girl then after they've killed someone else they drive off leaving the girl alive to become a possible witness . Later on the cops drive past and it's only then that the gang decide to try and kill the hero . I've never tried to bump anyone off but surely it's a bad idea to shoot someone when the cops are at the other end of the street ? As you can expect in these type of movies none of the cast will be nominated for Oscars , but it's a shame that Berenger couldn't reprise his role since Treat Williams isn't much of a treat in the acting stakes . I'm also very sorry to pick on one of the cast by name but Susan May Pratt as Anya Thomasson is absolutely abysmal , she is totally wooden and mumbles her lines like she's reading out a shopping list . The only half way decent acting comes from some of the gang members , but how difficult is it to play foul mouthed gangsters ? I hope no one picks me up wrong but the only positive thing I can say about SCHOOL'S OUT is that the director has cast all black actors as gang members . How many movies have seen featuring a tough ghetto gang that is one third black , one third white , and one third Latino ? Too many would be the answer and some congratulations are in order for not taking a PC view of ethnic composition of gangs . It should also be pointed out many of the victims of this gang violence are black themselves so at least this aspect rings true . But if you want a realistic movie you might want to miss the bell for THE SUBSTITUTE 2 : SCHOOLS OUT
Basically A TVM For Women	Ah yes the demon drink , something I'm not too familiar with these days since I decided to give it up several years ago after drinking on top of an empty head a few too many times . Man you can seriously ruin your life by drinking to excess and you'll have absolutely no one to blame except yourselfThat's the problem I had with 28 DAYS . The protagonist Gwen decided to become a drunk , she decided to get behind the wheel of a car and she decided to become a drunk driver . Luckily she didn't run down and kill the nearest passerby but she still earned my undying contempt , but as the film goes on we're supposed to feel sorry for her , she's a victim you see , poor Gwen had an unhappy childhood , her mother was a drunk and poor , poor Gwewn grew up to be a drunk too . Am I missing some sort of obvious point ? I fail to see how upbringing makes Gwen a victim of addiction , she volunteered to become a drunk driver , let me spell that out for the hard of thinking : She V-O-L-U-N-T-E-E-R-E-D to get drunk , she V-OL-U-N-T-E-E-R-E-D to drive her car while drunk . I wasn't all that keen on TRAINSPOTTING or TRAFFIC but these two films make the all too realistic point that an addict becomes an addict because they volunteered to become one , they're a victim of absolutely nothing . That's my main problem with the movie , it's not my only one because so many reviewers have come onto this page to point out that despite having an A list female star 28 DAYS doesn't feel like anything more than one of those TVMs made for a totally female audience , it feels exactly like it's written and directed as a TVM and it came as absolutely no surprise when I looked up director Betty Thomas and writer Susannah Grant profiles that most of their work is grounded in TVMs , and I'm surprised a Hollywood studio produced this
I Almost Fell Asleep	An American man is found dead and the question is was he murdered by a white man or was his death an accident ? But maybe a better question would been how can anyone make such a dire film ? Okay dire is maybe too strong a word but SNOW FALLING ON CEDARS is a very boring film badly structured . The victim's body is found then the action ( I use the word action in in its loosest sense ) cuts to the trial , then cuts back to a character more than 20 years ago , then moves forward to 9 years ago during the second world war . What this all means is we're not introduced to the characters properly which makes for a very uninvolving film . It also leaves me at a loss as to what genre the film falls into , it's not a court room drama , or a romance , or a war film . What is it then ? A good cure for insomnia I guess
I've Never Played The Game But . . .	. . . I imagine it must be a hundred times more entertaining than this sorry excuse of a movie and I make no apologies for pointing out what a terrible piece of film making it is . An alien invasion force launches an attack on the human race and proceeds towards planet Earth and it's up to some fighter pilots to stop them . Well hope the defenders put far more effort into stopping them than the producers put effort into making this movie - It's really awful . I mean what's the point of hiring such talented actors as Suchet , Prochnow and Warner if you're going to give them a zero dimensional character and stilted lines ? having said that the decent cast members still give a performance good enough to show that the rest of the cast like Burrows and Prinze Jr are pretty rank . Yeah okay maybe it's not a film that an audience are going to watch for the cast but I imagine the original video game had much better FX and graphics as seen here . Words fail to describe how painfully bad the technical attributes of this movie are . When I say THE MUMMY RETURNS had better CGI that says everything you will ever need to know about WING COMMANDER
When Britain Made Some Crap Movies	I remember watching this aged about eleven and not thinking much of it then and when I watched it on Sky movies a couple of weeks ago I liked it even less . What's wrong with the movie can be summed up with the opening scene where a bunch of bikini clad blondes are going to be sacraficed . If the time period is set " when dinosaurs ruled the Earth " how come there's human beings ? As every boorish schoolboy knows dinosaurs died out millions of years before primative man walked the surface of the planet . Oh and the voice over informs us there's no moon which is another anachronism . BTW why are the blondes going to be sacraficed ? To increase the collective IQ of humanity ? Actually watching this film as an adult male I was very impressed by the costume design or rather the lack of it . Yup it's a Hammer production so you just know that the female cast were chosen because of their lung capacity , but this leads me to ask : If that's what women looked like in the stone age how come it took hundreds of thousands of years for the population to reach six billion ? Costume design aside the rest of the production values are very poor , much of the location exteriors were obviously filmed in a studio with sea borne scenes filmed in a swimming pool and it goes without saying the ( Not very special ) special effects are of a DOCTOR WHO standardBe warned that if you're writing an article on stone age man don't use this film as a source of information . I've already pointed out some mistakes and here's some more things that are difficult to accept1 ) In the stone age everyone had perfect teeth2 ) In the stone age people from different tribes had no problem understanding one another if they pointed their fingers3 ) Dinosaurs always make the same screeching noise no matter what species they belong to4 ) When a dinosaur hatches from an egg it grows to adulthood within a few hours5 ) Animals like snakes and crabs were a lot bigger in the stone age6 ) If a cave woman has blonde hair she will almost always have brown eyes , while a cave man with dark hair will almost always have blue eyes indicating that genetics were somehow different in the stone age
Name That Source	One minute into THE UNTOLD and it's already ripped off techniques from THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT and PREDATOR . Does this mean we'll be seeing lots of trees ? We sure will . Will we be seeing an Austrian bodybuilder blowing things up ? Well this film has the budget of a TVM so the answer is a resounding no . Does anyone like these soft porn shows like BEDTIME STORIES ? Good because there's a scene in this that resembles these type of shows . Unfortunately the only thing you see is cellulite . Do you like it when the screen fades to black during a TVM ? Great because this happens between every scene in THE UNTOLD . In fact it happens during every scene too . Did you enjoy MILLIONAIRE - A MAJOR FRAUD ? Fantastic because one of the characters looks like a bearded Major Charles Ingram the contestant who tried to swindle the show out of one million pounds . Seriously one of the characters looks like Major Ingram . I kept expecting him to say " It's bear . It could be a bear . But it might be a bigfoot < Cough , cough > , yes it's a bigfoot < Cough > , it's definately a bigfoot < Cough > Yes I'm going to shoot it . Final answer Chris " Oh and have I mentioned that all the above are the good bits ? THE UNTOLD isn't the worst bigfoot movie I've ever seen , that accolade firmly goes to NIGHT OF THE DEMON which I saw over twenty years ago and I think I've only seen less than a dozen films that are worse in all of that time . But that said THE UNTOLD is still a very poor film in just about every aspect , especially editing . As some other reviewers have pointed out it feels like whole chunks of the film are missing while there's other bits where scenes are spliced together in the wrong order . This is a really bad film that deserves far less than its rating of 5 . 1 . I give it and I'm being very kind
It Started Off Okay	I've never read Stephen King's CARRIE ( If truth be told NEEDFUL THINGS is the only King novel I've read ) so I've no idea how well this miniseries adapatation holds up compared to the source novel . For the most part it's adaquate enough for the viewer but what brings it crashing down is the climax at the school prom . In Brian De Palma's film version this is a classic cinema scene with its split screen technique . Alas in this version it's laughably bad as CGI chairs and tables spin through the air in a cartoonish manner while people either stand around like showroom dummies or fall over in the same sort of style as a European soccer player . This ruined the whole show for me , and I don't know if it's in the novel but ends in a ridiculous upbeat way leading me to believe the producers are going to make a spin off series . If they do I won't be watching it
The Farcical Menace More Like	Never been a STAR WARS fan and I fail to see what the fuss was about with the original trilogy , but I'm shocked as to how even the most die hard fan could have enjoyed this movie . In fact I'll be even more blunt - I'm surprised as to how the film company allowed George Lucas to release this movie ! First of all there's absolutely no coherance to the script . The first 25 minutes are composed of characters escaping from CGI monsters only to be confronted by other CGI monsters ( Is this why it's called THE PHANTOM MENACE ? ) then some vague mention of trade wars then it's back onto the FX again . Not that the FX are up to much even the explosions are obviously done by CGI , no technical triumphs here . And the other technical aspects are very poor especially the editing . Has everyone failed to notice the tme discrepancys between scenes ? We see one character captured by war droids then it cuts to another scene which seems to last several minutes then it cuts back to the war droid scene where it seems no time has passed at all . THE PHANTOM MENACE is full of this haphazard editing which leads me to believe it wasn't edited at all . But the two things that really got my goat were the war driods and the acting . First of all the war driods are complete wimps ( And yes they are CGI ) I mean we have about three dozen droids armed with lazer guns trying to kill a couple of Jedi knights armed with light sabres . Guess who wins ? Correct . This lack of a credible enemy undermines an already poor film where we know that our heros will never be in serious danger now matter how many driods they come up against . A few people have made similar complaints about FELLOWSHIP OF THE RINGS , but the enemy in FELLOWSHIP have identical weapons whereas here the good guys are heavily outgunned as well as being heavily outnumbered and it's laughable to watch a small handfull of people waving their light sabres against hundreds of well armed droids . Secondly the acting . We can sit here and discuss what " Bad " acting is . For me the worst type of acting is wooden acting . Gasp in amazement as a host of well regarded stars read their lines as if they're reading out a shopping list . Neeson is wooden , Jackson and Stamp make no impact but worst of all is Portman whose performance is so bad it has to be seen to be believed and which left me scratching my head puzzled as to why she got payed for her performance . The only two performances that stuck out was Frank Oz and Ewan McGregor and even then that's down to his implaceble irritating accent . And before anyone accuses me of not liking the fantasy genre I will say I absolutely loved FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and will be booking my ticket to see THE TWO TOWERS when its released . New Line Cinema know a masterpiece when they fund one
Very Boring	UP AT THE VILLA fooled me into thinking I'd be watching something similar to GOSFORD PARK . The film opens at a ballroom in 1930s Italy which is populated by vulgar Americans and uptight upper class Brits , but in truth UP AT THE VILLA plays out far more like a Merchant - Ivory production which is very bad news because it's a very slow , and I do mean very slow romantic drama with some of the romance being very unlikely . If you like slow romantic dramas you might like this movie . I didn't
Unimpressive	I'm not very familiar with THE PRISONER OF ZENDA . I know it's a novel by Anthony Hope that involves an English commoner who so resembles the King of Rurtinia so much that he becomes a stand in , I know that Robert Donat starred in a well regarded film version , and that the 1978 DOCTOR WHO story The Andriods Of Tara was based on Hope's novel . That was all I really knew as I sat down to watch this comedy version of the storyI was totally unimpressed , not by the bare bones of the story but by the obvious fact that there's no laughs in this alleged comedy . I can't think of one moment when I cracked a smile never mind burst out laughing . In fact about half way through all the evidence points that writers Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais just gave up attempting to make lame jokes and just wrote a traditional version of the story . But my major gripe is with director Richard Quine who spent twelve and a half million dollars on this movie which looks like it has a budget less than a tenth of that sum . All the interior sets look totally cheap and fake and there's an action sequence involving a stage coach which is laughably bad . The whole sequence is shot at ground level to disguise the fact that the coach isn't moving more than 10 mph , cut to some abysmal back screen projection with Peter Sellers wrestling with one of the bad guys , then cut back again to an exterior shot of the 10mph coach with all the characters looking away from screen so you won't notice the characters are played by stuntmen . I wasn't fooled by this type of sequence in James Bond films from the 1980s and I wasn't fooled here
Not A Great Thriller	MILD SPOILERS In the mid 1990s the BBC broadcast a competition for scriptwriting hopefuls called " Double Exposure " where five BBC regions would each pick a winning script and get a first time director to film it . This was the winning script from BBC Scotland which I wasn't too impressed with , and before anyone accuses me of sour grapes I wish to point out that I sent my short story to BBC London so it's no skin off my nose who won the comp at the BBC Scotland region . The reason I didn't like NIGHTLIFE is the fact that it sometimes resembles the plot of BLOW UP and THE CONVERSATION two films I dislike . A Glasgow woman sees what she believes is a brutal assault and kidnapping and the police are very sceptical so she hunts for clues in the local park at night , but there's a twist at the end . NIGHTLIFE also features a lot of homosexual kissing which I found to be extremely off putting . In fact the whole film feels that it was made to appeal to a gay audience so if you're straight you will probably won't want to watch it . It's not like you'll be missing much
Night Of The Tedious	For some strange reason the film world is driven by fashion . Someone makes a film about a killer shark then all of a sudden the film world's oceans are awash with giant Squids , killer octopusses and sea monsters of every ilk . A man is stalked by an erstwhile lover from hell then every film character is stalked by a cop from hell or a flatmate from hell or a babysitter from hell . Then when a major Hollywood company produces a big budget FX laden blockbuster about tornados then other film producers jump upon the bandwagon , the fact that they don't have the budget to pull it off doesn't stop them . NIGHT OF THE TWISTERS is a case in point . What struck me about this made for television film is the fact that it tries to hide its lack of budget by cutting to the ad breaks . Everytime a tornado appears the camara locks onto the horrified expression of the actors as they scream things like " Oh my gawd it's heading this way " and " Run for your lives " then the screen fades to black saving the producers the need to up the special effects budget . Unfortunately NIGHT OF THE TWISTERS budget should have been upped to include better actors . The cast are by no means bad but they are unimpressive and lack the skill to carry a film which is character driven . Where's Josh Hartnett and Elijah Wood when you need them ? And the last word on this being a TWISTER clone . . . . . Yes NOTT was released a couple of months before TWISTER but TWISTER had been hyped for several months as being the Summer blockbuster of 1996 and NOTT has a rushed feeling to it which leads me to believe that it was made and released to tie in with the hype surrounding TWISTER
Tries To Be Two Things At Once And Fails	I problem I have with this documentary is that it can't decide to be about viruses or about the making of 28 DAYS LATER so it tries to be both and considering it lasts for 20 minutes it fails on both attempts . The making of 28 DAYS LATER segments are very predictable composed mainly of actors telling us how they got in shape for the part and what it's like firing a gun , but the segments with the scientists talking about the possible dangers to humanity posed by viruses is very disappointing . It's patently obvious that none of the scientists interviewed have any knowledge of the film otherwise they'd have mentioned the ridiculously short incubation period of rage . And I also got the feeling the interviews were severly edited in order to sensationalise them . Yes a superbug is very dangerous and some of them are resistant to antibiotics but this is because doctors have been overprescribing antibiotics for years something not mentioned here . Similarly the devastation caused by the foot and mouth outbreak in Britain last year is mentioned but it wasn't mentioned that the mountains of animal carcasses was caused by laws that require a completely healthy herd of cattle to be slaughtered if only one of them was infected . It wasn't the foot and mouth virus that devastated British agriculture last year ( How could it when most of the slaughtered livestock weren't infected ? ) but laws drawn up to stop the disease spreading . Not only is foot and mouth harmless to all humans but it's also non fatal to most farmyard livestock - it just makes them sick and loose a lot of weight . So " A virus similar to foot and mouth disease sweeping through the human race " doesn't scare me very much
MAJOR PAIN More Like	Did anyone stop to realise what sort of movie they were producing here ? Now let's a former marine officer becomes assinged to a group of kids at a cadet school so this should be a family comedy right ? Wrong . This is just a gross comedy aimed at teenagers with many bad taste moments . It might have been watchable in an extremely dumb way at this point but I found Damon Wayans voice to be irritating beyond belief . Does he speak like that in real life ? If he does then he has my sympathy but he won't be getting any of my money from watching his movies
Some People Might Like It	This starts with Angus MacGyver and his old college professor Fat Shouting Actor Atticus going on a little jaunt to the Balkans to pick up some artifacts . You think being educated men Angus and Atticus would have picked up the artifacts before or after everyone in the region started killing one another but if they did that we wouldn't have a story . Strangely enough the first act is completely disposable and seems to exist only as a social conscience so we can hear MacGyver spouting lines like " mYou're committing ethnic cleansing , racial genocide " . Perhaps the worst thing about this is that you find yourself questioning if this is the right platform for people to be making these kind of speeches , I mean MACGYVER is supposed to be a fun show so should it be concerning itself with real life geo-political issues ? I mean in THE A TEAM no one came out with " The Republicans are obesessed with neo liberal market forces , so by helping ourselves we're not doing anything Reagan isn't doing " . You also can't help noticing that " The Balkans look suspiciously like Battersea Power Station in London . Guess where this sequence was filmed ? After being hit over the head as to why ethnic cleansing and racial genocide are bad things MacGyver and Atticus depart " The Balkans " and go to London ( Ha Ha Ha But they've been in London the whole time - I meant another part of London ) where the plot is explained and Angus and Atticus embark on an adventure to an exotic location - Actually a quarry . A lot of people describe this TVM as an Indiana Jones rip off but it's more in keeping with DOCTOR WHO since no matter where in the universe the characters go it always ends up looking like a few minutes drive from London Fans of MACGYVER might like this feature length adventure ( Most probably the 100 or so people who worked on it and gave on this site ) but I didn't
I Vaguely Remember This	SPOILERS CHIMERA came out round about the same time as the BBC drama FIRST BORN which also dealt with the concept of genetically engineered apes , though to be honest they're not really compatible since FIRST BORN was more of an emotional drama while CHIMERA is a straight up and down horror / SF thrillerThe plot goes something like this : A nurse turns up at a fertility clinic to start a new job but things aren't what they seem . As the nurse is getting suspicions about the clinic , the staff , patients and eventually the nurse herself are murdered by Chad , a hybrid human . The nurse's boyfriend tries to solve the mystery as to what happened to herReading the above plot you might think this is a fairly entertaining thriller and it might have been but the story runs for four episodes and the above synopsis only covers the first one and a half episodes . As a matter of fact when the series was re-edited into a two hour teleplay the first hour is cut out plus another hour of running time and the story still makes sense which shows you how much padding there was in the first placeAfter the opening episode we're treated to sub plots like the secret service spooks wanting to keep everything under the raps and a couple of children befriending Chad who they call " Mister Scarecrow " . Strange how Chad seems to murder adults left right and centre but never harms children ? Oh as always in these type of stories we're treated to an amiguous ending of lots of little Chads lying in incubators I guess ITV should be congratulated on trying to break the BBC's monopoly on telefantasy but CHIMERA is very forgettable due to its over long running time and its cliches
A Bigger Mess Than A Golden Shower	I remember when THE GOLDEN CHILD was released in 1986 it was universally panned by the critics , and I'm talking panned so badly that it more or less ended the glittering career of Eddie Murphy so I guess this movie has something going for itIt gets off to a bad start where Buddist monks kneel in front of a child with a blank expression on his face . Bad guys enter the templeChild sits with blank expressionBad guys chop up the monksChild sits with blank expressionBad guys pull out giant bird cage and stick the child inside who now sits with . . . Go on guess ? You do get the impression that even if they were taking him for a sleepover at Michael Jackson's wonderland ranch he'd still give the same blank expression , this movie would be better titled THE WOODEN CHILDThe title sequence starts and being a movie from the 1980s a pop soundtrack features heavily . Obviously this might have been cool and funky at the time but now in 2004 it seems very dated . Not only that but it jars completely with the somewhat bloody opening . In fact that's the main problem ( And boy it's a serious one ) with this movie - The whole mood seems to change from scene to scene so much so that sometimes it's like watching scenes from totally different movies spliced together . I blame the director personally but it should also be pointed out that both the screenwriter and producer should share equal blame too . Did anyone know before shooting commenced what type of movie this was going to be ? It's part fantasy , part martial arts , part buddy movie , part comedy and it's all crap
Why Does Anyone Bother ?	Oh yes European culture and the Eurovision Song Contest which is like Adolph Hitler and racial harmony appearing in the same sentence . Actually this years contest was far worse than usual because the tunes seemed confused . Croatia's song started off with some bagpipe music while the entries from Greece and the United Kingdom sounded more Turkish than the entry by the Turks . Oh and the Greeks did a bit of riverdancing which probably was a cynical attempt to fool the voters into thinking they were watching Ireland who often win but for some reason didn't qualify for the final this year Okay lets be truthful and say I was hoping the best looking female contestant was going to win . I guess I shouldn't be too disappointed since the Greek contestant had the best legs and she won while Romania had the best cleavage and she came third with the Israeli motek also doing very well . Unfortunately there was a miscarriage of justice with some ugly fat bird from Malta getting the runner up spot which adds fuel to the rumours that it's only middle aged homosexuals who vote in this contest . As for the music it was instantly forgettable . Norway does deserve some credit since they contributed an act that seemed very similar to a tribute band for Brit glam rockers The Darkness and Denmark's entry could easily have passed as a respectable POP IDOL contender . Talking of POP IDOL Britain was represented by Javine a former contestant of one of the reality pop shows but her performance on the night was very very poor and she ended up near the bottom of the final vote As for the voting itself this what gets my goat . Countries continue to vote for their neighbours regardless of the merit of the songs themselves . Greece and Cyprus give each other twelve points while the Balkan , Baltic and Scandinavian countries scratch each others backs . It's totally ridiculous as is the fact that while only 24 countries take part a total of 39 countries vote . In fact I think the majority of the running time was taken up with the voting rather than the singing . Good job nobody takes this competition seriously otherwise it would cause world war three
Too Much Cheese . Too Much Boredom	THREE WISHES revolves around the story of Jeanne a widow whose husband is believed killed during the Korean war . One day she runs down and injures derelict drifter Jack and is so guilt stricken she invites him home to look after him That's the story set up and as you can tell it's not the most credible premise you'll ever see , it might have worked better if the premise led to a thriller whose subtext screams " kindness will be the death of you " but here the opposite happens as we're hit over the head that " Kindness will be rewarded " . Obviously this movie is a fantasy This might have been bad enough but not bad enough to condemn the movie out right , but where the film falls down is something that a great number of reviewers on this page have pointed out - The director fails to bring any excitement to the pace . Watching THREE WISHES I kept thinking I was watching a sub standard Frank Capra script directed by Steven Spielberg who was having an over sentimental off day . It's a very inoffensive movie but also a very cheesy uninvolving one too BTW if I had three wishes , I'd make everyone in the world equal , then I'd make some people more equal than others , then I'd make myself the most equal person in the whole wide world . Strangely none of the characters in this movie ever considered anything like this
Another Dumb TVM	Imagine you stole someone's identity and the in laws of that person invited you stay with them , how long would you be able to keep up the pretense ? Probably indefinitely if the in laws are as stupid as the ones here . You'd think they'd ask some searching questions to their daughter in law about their son wouldn't you ? But that never happens . And seeing as so much water has passed underneath the bridge in the first place it never become clear why they wanted to meet their son's wife in the first place . It's not only the father and daughter in law who are dumb it seems everyone in this American state is too . Shrinks seem to keep sharpened scissors lying about in their office when meeting mentally ill patients and doctors are unable to tell the difference between people who have been murdered and those who have died by suicide and natural causes . There's far too much suspension of disbelief in this TVM . Mind you this premise might have been quite good as a comedy instead of an unthrilling TVM . Hopefully we'll see this remade with Cameron Diaz and Matt Dillon in the near future
Unentertaining	SHOWGIRLS opens with Nomi Malone hitching a lift to Las Vegas where in a short series of unlikely events finds herself all alone in the big bad city . After kicking a car the owner pulls her up about her behaviour and then decides to let her become her best friend . Gosh isn't that friendly and isn't that just so realistic . Come on all you budding film stars and screenwriters and directors , just hitch a lift to Hollywood kick a parked car and all your problems finding affordable accommodation will be solved . If you think the start of the movie is contrived wait till you see the very last scene SHOWGIRLS opened to a critical panning and almost empty cinemas . It's a bad movie but unforgivably it's not bad enough to be entertaining . It's just a plot less story about Nomi Malone wanting to be a dancer in Vegas , though there's never really a convincing motive as to why Nomi wants to be a dancer . Is it the money ? Is there prestige as to someone being a dancer ? Apart from Wayne Sleep or Michael whatshisname can you name any dancer in the world who's a household name outside of their own household ? As for her dancing there's a distinct lack of continuity as we see Ms Malone flopping about like a fish out of water at a disco then in the next dancing sequence he's tightly choreographed The film might have worked if Paul Verhoeven and Joe Eszterhas had introduced a thriller plot . They actually manage to do this but only about ten minutes from the end . If they'd introduced an invasion from outer space ten minutes into SHOWGIRLS I'm sure the critical acclaim and box office takings would have considerablly improved . Hot naked women in every scene does not necessarily make for an entertaining movie Looking on the bright side while Mr Verhoeven may never direct a film of the same caliber as TOTAL RECALL or ROBOCOP at least he won't be directing a movie as dire as SHOWGIRLS
Even More Dated Than The TV Series	This is a film spin off to a sit-com more memorable for its characters at Grace Bros clothing store than its jokes : Mr Humphries ( A camp homosexual ) Ms Brahms ( A slutty single girl ) Mr Harman ( a sleazy janitor ) Mr Lucas ( A jack the lad ) Captain Peacock ( An uptight former military man ) and of course Mrs Slocombe where many of the jokes revolve around her losing her cat - " Has anyone seen my pussy ? " In short it's a comedy that relied on two dimensional characters and innuendo , British humour at its most basic and unsophisticated . It might have been funny at the time but it probably wouldn't raise too many smiles now As most people on this page have noticed this is a very poor film version of the TV series . The first third of the running time is taken up with the characters working at grace brothers clothing store then the action switches to the holiday resort of Costa Plonka and a plot involving a rebel leader about to stage a revolution , but this is secondary to things like a comedy of errors involving Mr Lucas sending a dirty note to Ms Brahms only for Mrs Slocombe to receive it thinking it's from Captain Peacock . This type of humour is very dated now and while Benny Hill might still remain funny , I can't say I laughed much watching this
Something Of An Ordeal To Sit Through	WHAT WE DID THAT NIGHT opens with four poor little rich boy students digging a hole and putting a teenage girl in the ground . Actually the scriptwriter has also dug himself into a hole since the audience are fully aware of what's happened and what the story is about . It's a good opening hook to be fair but it also sets up a very predictable story . The story then jumps several years to the present day where the students have now graduated and have become well paid white collar professionals . Sorry if I sound like a communist dictator but did anyone else have an instinctive dislike of these poor little rich boys ? and as someone else pointed out the actors might have been convincing as students but several years later they're unconvincing as a district attorney etc , and because the TVM opened with these characters burying a body we know where the story is heading which means the audience have to put up with many talky scenes by these unlikable poor rich boys which doesn't exactly make for compelling viewingAll this is rather annoying , we know what the plot is and we know where the plot is heading so perhaps fearing that the story is too predictable the scriptwriter throws a massive spanner in the works by having a few plot twists in the final third of the film which really strains any type of credibility the TVM might have had to start with I didn't think much of this TVM ( What a surprise ) except for a scene where one of the character's visits his friend and the friend's wife leans over and offers the character a plate of cookies " Thanks Cholie . They're nice " He says as takes a cookie " Thank you " replies Cholie while all the time the director keeps his camera locked on Cholie's impressive cleavage
I Didn't Learn Anything	September the 11th 2001 was a day when I was ill with a really bad chest inflammation . I was having a cup of tea watching the end credits of NEIGHBOURS when a BBC newsflash came up . I instantly thought The Queen Mother had died untill the newsreader said two planes had crashed into each of the twin towers of the WTC building and I spent the rest of the day with a shocked expression on my face as the events in New York unfolded . The world changed that day and not for the better RUDY : THE RUDY GIULIANI STORY is the first filmed dramatisation of the events of . It's also a biopic of the legendary Mayor of New York on that day , but I found this to be uninformative . Mayor Rudy took on the mafia ? Well I knew that already . He drastically cut the crime rates in NYC ? I knew that already . He was a bit of a lad and cheated on his partner ? I didn't know that but is infidelity all that interesting ? As a big James Woods fan I was also disappointed with his performance in the title role and couldn't help thinking Woods was slightly miscast , Woods is in his element playing manic , intense bad guys and I've never thought of Giuliani as a manic , intense bad guy . As one reviewer has already pointed out Robert Duvall would have been perfect in the role . The biggest problem with this TVM is nothing to do with the actors or anyone's opinion of Mayor Rudy , it's probably more to do with the events on . The reality of something so shocking , something that set so many wheels in motion for both good and bad for many years to come completely overwhelms something as unimportant as a movie made for television .
Ultimate Farce More Like . . . .	. . . . Well maybe that's just a little cruel but ULTIMATE FORCE is just a general Brit action series in the same vein as THE PROFESSIONALS and BODYGUARDS . There's no real reason why this should really feature the SAS no matter how much the writers producers and directors try to convince you otherwise because despite having scenes featuring the almost mythical " killing house " or resistance to interrogation training techniques the programme makers trip themselves up . Since when have the SAS been used to end sieges by bank robbers ? When did it become more multi ethnic than the French foreign legion and when did it become all touchy feely about gays getting beaten in public toilets ? I wasn't convinced I was watching anything more than a star vehicle for Ross Kemp . If you want a real version of the SAS in action watch BRAVO TWO ZERO or even better read the book
It's Not High Concept	Roberta , a Hollywood director bangs her head and finds herself in Sherwood Forest in ye days of olde where everyone she knows in Hollywood is duplicated . This plotline instantly reminded me of the 1970 DOCTOR WHO story Inferno where the Doctor finds himself in an alternative universe where everyone he knows back on Earth is duplicated as a fascist alter-ego . However while Inferno was a telefantasy plot at its very best VIRGINS OF SHERWOOD FOREST is a soft core porn film so we can forget all about phrases like " Convincing location in Nottinghamshire " and " Good acting performances " and boy can we forget all about " High concept plot " because it's a soft core porn film . We should also forget all about anachronisms like silicone implants and thongs in ye days of olde , but at least the actresses Gabriella Hall , Shannan Leigh and Amber Newman are very fit so no complaints from me
Flogging A Dead Horse	Jaws in THE SPY WHO LOVED ME was a brilliant Bond baddie so on paper bringing him back for MOONRAKER must have seemed a good idea . However he should have been killed off in the pre credits sequence because the more he's used in the film the more and more ludicrous he becomes in very mechanical set pieces which climax in the scene where he opens a bottle of champagne and declares " Here's to us " . Maybe that ' s not really a criticism since MOONRAKER is even for a Bond film so silly and pathetic it goes beyond even childish fantasy . I rate it almost certainly the worst in the series
Don't Know About Terror But It Is Terrible	A cheaply made British film from the early 1970s is what CRUCIBLE OF TERROR is , but you'll never believe how bad it is untill you actually watch it . The plot is just basically a whodunnit where it's so obvious that you know straight from the first murder who's behind the killings , except at the very end there's a plot twist that will have you reeling and not in a good way either . It's as though the producer realised how obvious the killer was that he instructed the screenwriter to forgo any credibility to make ( You'll never guess who ) the murderer at the very last minute . The other thing that had me reeling was the performance of Mike Raven who struck me as a cross between Roger Delgado ( The original master from Doctor Who ) and Christopher Lee . It's not too difficult to believe that Mr Raven disappeared from the acting world after making this crazy movie
If You Can't Make Your Own Movie Then Don't Bother	This opens at the cyberdyne factory but it isn't TERMINATOR 2 . It also involves a German leader leading his terrorist gang but it's not DIE HARD . Oh hold on the plot more or less is DIE HARD , and do you know what's worse ? THE WHOLE OPENING SEQUENCE IS TERMINATOR 2 ! ! ! ! . You read that right , the opening sequence of CRITICAL MASS contains lengthy scenes from James Cameron's 1991 blockbuster and instantly reminded me of the straight to video film RANGERS that contains umpteen action scenes from other films . Can anyone tell me how legal this is because when RETURN OF THE KING is released I'm going to stick the three LORD OF THE RINGS films together and sell it to distributors claiming it's my own original work . On its own ( ie the bits that weren't stolen from TERMINATOR or UNIVERSAL SOLDIER ) this movie isn't up to much , it's just another of those " Bunch of terrorists hold everyone to ransom " type movies though when a bunch of journalists get blown away the hero saves the one with long hair and firm breasts so you've got to admire his sense of priorities
Soft Core . . .	. . . And boy is it soft I saw this on cable channel Bravo one Saturday night and here in Britain we often have these dire " Erotic " soft core movies turning up late at night on Bravo . This one follows a WEIRD SCIENCE type plot of a couple of college geeks building a virtual reality headset that makes you have sexual fantasies . When you've seen one of these movies you've seen them all with a bunch of bimbos looking like they're advertising silicone implants . Come on I've actually seen breasts in real life ( I'm sure some other of us have too ) and they wobble around unlike here where they defy the laws of , if not physics than at least gravity . The sex scenes are these tedious affairs where a well buffed geezer rubs himself against his co-star without any dialogue or sound apart from some muzak and when they climax it looks like they're both having a bad attack of constipation . The girls themselves are very pretty especially Brandy Davis and Nikki Fritz but they're wasted in these type of soft core movies And if it's fantasy you're after I recommend the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy
I Know It's A Comedy . . . .	. . . . But couldn't the central idea of having naive people from the early 1960s finding themselves in the cynical 1990s have been better thought out ? They thought there was going to be a nuclear war so they hid in a nuke proof bunker for decades ? Does anyone see a flaw in this ? The film does try and explain how they'd be able to eat fish for the next 35 years but come on three people spending 35 years in a bunker ! Strange that they enough nappies , enough toilet rolls and enough everything to last 35 years . Strange that the workmen never though about digging up the septic tank either isn't it ? How very convinent for the plot . Perhaps if the characters had walked into a plot device called a " timeslip " I might have been more convinced Of course I'm being very cruel in pointing out the unlikely set up and BLAST FROM THE PAST isn't a total loss . Brendan Frazer does play the innocent abroad with a touching infectious innocence and everyone gives good enough performances but this movie feels too much like it was made by Tim Burton , the director isn't Burton it's Hugh Wilson who should have perhaps concentrated on making his own movie instead of apeing Burton's style
Dire Ethnic Sex Comedy With little Redeeming Features	The premise of WOO centers around a mismatched couple who meet via a blind date . The eponymous Woo turns up at the flat of Tim who is a bit of nerd and a complete contrast to Woo . Right away you realise that this isn't a groundbreaking sex comedy and perhaps needed something to set it apart from other movies in the sub genre and there's nothing here that does But what really ruins the film is the ethnic stereotypes and I don't think I've seen so many unlikely characters since watching black exploitation movies like SHAFT and Hit-man . The audience are really smacked over the head as to just how funky these black people are which will probably cause offence to black people and white liberals and will certainly irritate everyone else , so from having a movie that from the outset would merely have been very run of the mill we have a movie that is embarrassing . If you're going to populate a film with black people at least give them non stereotypical quirks
Oh Dear	I can't remember much about the original TV sitcom of BLESS THIS HOUSE except that it starred Sid James as a naughty man called Sid ( With the exception of Hammer's QUATERMASS 2 has there ever been anything James has appeared in where he doesn't play a character called Sid ? ) who's a very similar character he plays in all the CARRY ON movies and that the series was very popular at the time since it was broadcast after CORONATION STREETThis is a film version of the sit com and it's amazing how many successful ITV Brit coms were produced for cinema release : MAN ABOUT THE HOUSE , ON THE BUSES , LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR etc . Remembering very little about the show I don't know how it compares Sid Abbot's son is getting married to Kate Baines the girl next door who's father works for the customs and excise , rather inconvient since Sid is brewing brandy in his garden shed . The problem with the movie is the amount of farce and slapstick that comes into being with people having to hide under tables and getting involved in egg fights . It's all rather unsophisticated stuff and would probably have been quite dated by the time of its initial release . The early 70s fashion doesn't help either
Don't Give Up The Day Job Al	As an actor Alan Rickman is able to pick a good script when he sees one , but as a director he fails with THE WINTER GUEST . This is a totally tedious film with no plot and consists entirely of actors standing around bedrooms or in streets or on windswept shores or sitting on buses talking about things of absolutely no importance to me . Yes the scenary is beautiful but so's the view outside my window and who wants to spend two hours looking out their window ?
No Reason To Watch	Oh a vaguely once famous actress in a film where she plays a mother to a child . It's being shown on BBC 1 at half past midnight , I wonder if . . . yup it's a TVM You've got to hand it to TVM producers , not content on making one mediocre movie , they usually give us two mediocre movies where two themes are mixed together and NOWHERE TO HIDE is no different . The first theme is a woman in danger theme cross pollinated with a woman suffering from the pain of a divorce theme which means we have a scene of the heroine surviving a murder attempt followed by a scene having her son Sam ask why she divorced ? And being a TVM she answers that the reason is " That people change " rather than say something along the lines like " I'm a right slapper " or Your daddy cruises mens public toilets for sex " as does happen in real life divorce cases . And it's young Sam I feel sorry for , not only are his parents divorced but he's as thick as two short planks . Actually since he's so stupid he deserves no sympathy because he's unaware that a man flushing stuff down a toilet is a drug dealer , unaware that you might die if someone shoots at you , and unaware that I LOVE LUCY is painfully unfunny . If only our own childhoods were so innocent , ah well as Orwell said " Ignorance is strength " . Oh hold on Sam is suddenly an expert on marine life ! Is this character development or poor scripting ? I know what one my money's on . And strange that Sam the boy genuis hasn't noticed that if the story is set in 1994 then why do people often wear clothes , drive cars and ride trains from the 1950s ? But as it turns out during a plot twist it's the mother who's the dummy . Then there's a final plot twist that left me feeling like an idiot for watching this
Guilty Of Being Utter Crap	It's funny how instinct warns you of something . For example as soon as the company credits read Nu Image I knew instinctively I'd seen a really crap film by them somewhere before but couldn't remember where . Nevertheless I just knew JUDGE AND JURY was going to be crap and it was . Maybe I'm psychic ? ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The opening is rather violent with several people getting blown away for no more reason than being in the wrong place at the wrong time . I don't know about you but I'm geting slightly fed up with exploitive violence onscreen nowadays along with bad language , especially if it's spouted by actors as bad as the ones in this movie . Anyway the plot revolves around the bad dude getting executed and coming back to reek revenge on the man who shot his wife . Oh did I mention the bad dude and his wife murdered a couple of people on their wedding night ? Yeah he's a serious badass mofo . In fact he's so bad ( And I don't mean the acting - I'll get to that in a moment ) that he's impossible to take seriously and this is before he's executed only to return as Elton John , Elvis , a French chef etc . I wonder if Keith David got paid for this ? because he looks lke he's having so much fun on screen that's the only reason he's playing the role . What a pity this reviewer didn't have any fun whatsoever watching JUDGE AND JURY . Hey maybe the producers could send me Keith's fee ? Gawd only knows I deserve it . I disliked this movie a lot as if you hadn't guessed and my main beef isn't with the stupid plot or the cheap production values but with its attitude to violence . If like me you've had a wine bottle cracked over your head or been kicked in the ribs very hard several times you'll know violence is an obscene painful thing , but JUDGE AND JURY will have you believe that if you're thrown through a window , crash through some bannisters and fall twenty odd feet onto a table not only will you be unhurt but you'll be able to outrun a couple of rabid devil dogs . It could of course be argued that any film starring Sly , Arnie or Bruce also suffers from this same dishonest showing of violence but with JUDGE AND JURY it yanked my chain
Very Lazy Comedy	The premise for BIG MOMMA'S HOUSE is something we've seen in countless other movies : A bad ass criminal escapes from jail , the cops have a rough idea where he's going to a couple of cops have to trap him . We've seen this type of plot in 48 HOURS , STAKEOUT and countless other films . I'm afraid I have to point out that we've seen a similar type of plot in countless other better films ! The problem isn't just with the very lazy plot that must have taken all of five minutes to have thought up but it's with the comedy itself . It tries to appeal to the sort of people who enjoyed both SCARY MOVIE and MRS DOUBTFIRE . Believe me very few people would have enjoyed both the gross out humour of SCARY MOVIE with the more traditional farce of MRS DOUBTFIRE . When Martin Lawrence says the line " I've seen some scary sht in my time but . . . " I honestly thought he was talking about the script , scary in the way that someone thought this was going to set the box office alight . A very short review for a film that's very short on laughs
Somewhat Offensive	The Vietnam war was one of the bloodiest conflicts of the 20th century . It was almost certainly the most needless conflict of the 20th century with America confusing Vietnamese nationalism with Soviet inspired communism . America lost the conflict along with 58 , 000 of it's servicemen with another two million human beings killed in the war . What is forgotten at the time is the amount of ill feeling the war created against the USA , but by 1985 much of the bad feeling abated towards Uncle Sam , then some Hollywood executive decided to make RAMBO : FIRST BLOOD PART TWOThis is a film with a rabid right wing agenda . It's also rather racist with the vague plot of an all American superman parachuting into ' Nam where he meets up with a female Vietnamese sidekick except she looks like one of her grandparents was Asian while the other three were white Europeans ! Of course the full blooded Vietnamese are shown as being cruel , stupid and totally untrustworthy . Worst of all they're shown as being nothing more than stooges for their Soviet masters . Say what you like about the Viet Cong but the Vietnamese people are ultra patriotic nationalists . They have maintained their independance by fighting for it against foreign invaders for centuries and are stooges for no one so it's both ridiculous and offensive to see the Vietnamese troops being ordered around by the Soviets like flunkies . According to this film the VC can't even shoot straight ! Not only does this insult the Vietnamese it also insults the Japanese , the French , the Americans and the Chinese who've all suffered military defeats this century to the humble Vietnamese peasent farmer
Shouldn't This Be A Comedy ?	! ! ! ! ! POSSIBLE SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! You'd think a story involving Archie Grey Owl - An Englishman posing as a red indian - would have a massive amount of humour involved . In fact I'd say the only way to treat a film like this where a remarkable man cons the gullible public is to treat it as a comedy . However Richard Attenborough commits something akin to a crime by making GREY OWL a serious drama . Worse , he's made an extremely dire film too . Pierce Brosnan lacks the charisma needed for the title role and the romantic subplot between Grey Owl and Pony ( Played by the equally wooden Annie Gaupeau ) lacks any type of on screen chemistry . But to be fair to the cast their not helped with the script which fails to portray Archie as the cheeky chappy he is of fooling everyone into believing he's a native American . The producers and screenwriter have made the major error of having the film centre around the plot twist of Archie being an Englishman - That's why I wrote " Possible spoiler " it's not actually revealed untill late in the film that the title character is English , but it's obvious that everyone who viewed this movie knew that beforehand hence there's absolutely no surprise involved . Yes I do agree with everyone that the scenery is lovely and that it has a deep ecological message which isn't actually a new concept . Theodore Roosevelt was the first important environmentalist of the 20th century if truth be told . And it should also be remembered that with the exception of SOYLENT GREEN ( And possibly THE TWO TOWERS if you want to class it as having a green message ) that there hasn't actually been a great ecological film . In fact most environmentally concious films suck and that includes GREY OWL , a film that unsurprisingly had a serious problem in finding a distributor
Dire Art House Crap	" Derek Jarman meets David Lynch " is how presenter Bill Bailey described NADJA . If I was a presenter I would have described as a big pile of art house crap but " Derek Jarman meets David Lynch " is the same difference . I've nothing against art house horror , I thought THE ADDICTION was okay while I loved the visual style of THE KEEP but there has to be a limit and NADJA goes way beyond that limit and ends up unwatchable for those of us who aren't obsessed with pretentious nonsense The story follows eponymous vampire Nadja who steps foot in America in a bizarre remake of DRACULA'S DAUGHTER . Everything in the narrative is sacrificed for the visual style and more often than not it's impossible to understand what the hell is going on since the picture fades to pixellated shots that are out of focus , cross fades , slow motion sound fade outs and other directorial tricks from Michael Almereyda . No doubt the director thought he was being clever but it makes the story unfathomable and isn't helped by some very poor performances indeed . It's impossible to believe that any of the cast - Including Peter Fonda - are professional actors A very poor film that will only appeal to art house junkies and if it wasn't for the great soundtrack by Portishead , My Bloody Valentine and The Verve this steaming pile of ostentatious excrement would have received even less than
Not What I Expected	Former brat pack actor and all round pretty boy Rob Lowe stars in a film set in a high security American prison . I had a gut feeling his character was going to be popular for all the wrong reasons like Tobias in the first series of OZ , but PROXIMITY isn't that kind of film , it's more like a " Man on the run " film like THE FUGITIVE . It also makes a nod to the themes of punishment and justice with James Coburn putting in a cameo as the spokesman for a justice for victims pressure group but any intelligent discussion on how society should treat criminals is completely ignored as the film degenerates into tired old cliches of shoot outs and car chases
Oh It's A Musical	I remember the first time TOMMY was broadcast on British television on BBC 2 in the late Autumn of 1981 . For the first time ever Radio 1 did a simultaneous broadcast , the idea being you turn off the sound on your TV , turn up the sound on Radio 1 and you'll be able to watch TOMMY in stereophonic sound , bare in mind this was before we had widescreen TVs that broadcast stereophonic sound , everything we got on TV in those days was in mono Instead of watching the movie on TV I listened to it on Radio 1 . I knew the movie was a musical but was under the impression it'd be something like Jeff Wayne's WAR OF THE WORLD album where there's a clear narrative with dialogue along with musical tracks , I mean Robert Powell , Oliver Reed and Jack Nicolson aren't singers right ? I listened to the film and it was about ten minutes before anyone started singing and within 20 minutes I had no idea what this was about , it was people singing , no dialogue , no narrative , no nothing so I decided to turn off the radio and go to sleep . Strangely when I was at school the next day everyone was saying what a weird though thoroughly entertaining movie it was And finally seeing the movie last week I can understand in some strange way what a subversive movie this is . Ken Russell doesn't hold back on the weird factor . Take the scene where Eric Clapton is performing in a church and everyone is worshipping a statue of Marylin Monroe and there's people wearing masks of her waving bowls of incense around . Mind if I ask what that's all about ? On second thoughts don't . That actually sums up the strengths and weaknesses of TOMMY , the imagery is strange , sometimes utterly compelling and breath taking like the sequence in Amazing Journey where a pin ball randomly smacks bombers turning them into crosses of rememberance but more often than not the film makes just as much sense as it did when I listened to it on the radio more than 20 years before . There's a vague point that musical heroes are somewhat Hitlerite in our modern pop culture but the very similar THE WALL by Pink Floyd makes this point far clearer and if truth be told THE WALL is by far a better movie and album Anyone else feel uneasy that much of TOMMY revolves around a young child from source material by Pete Townshend ?
Grotesque Psycho-Drama That Doesn't Quite Gel	The problem I had with APT PUPIL is that I found myself being unable to feel any sympathy for the two protagonists of the story , one of which is a Nazi war criminal who served in every major death camp during the war and a teenage boy who is blackmailing Herr Nazi war criminal for his own ends . Come to think of it what are Todd's ends ? I'm just asking because I've forgotten what Todd's motives were . Something about writing a thesis was it ? That's right , but for some reason the motives seem to change into Todd going on a slightly nasty ego trip . I guess the point is that we're all latent Nazis but this point is slightly unfocussed , in fact much of the film is unfocussed until the last half hour which turns into a " Will they or won't they be found out " type thriller . Unfortunately this last part is driven by too much coincidence and a rather unconvincing plot twist . I don't want to be totally negative however since it is very well acted and some small attempt has been made via a dinner table scene to humanise the war criminal , but like I said Nazis and power crazed blackmailers aren't going to get too much sympathy from me
Oh No , It's A Giant Draught Excluder	As several people have mentioned ANACONDA is a movie that has a very old fashioned feel to it . In some ways it feels like one of those old TARZAN movies where the lord of the apes has to save a bunch of white hunters from a legendary river monster , or it feels like one of those 50 B movies where a scientific expedition are attacked by an unknown assailant like THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON , or it feels like one of those pictures from the 1980s where the John Williams score goes de-de-de-de-de as someone is swimming in the water like JAWS 5 : THIS TIME IT'S A SNAKESee the point I'm making ? ANACONDA is a very unoriginal film that lacks any sophistication ( Why didn't any of the characters pull out a CD and play the classic Throwing Muses track Snakeface for example ? ) and it would have been very boring if it hadn't been for two things 1 ) Jon Voight . Come on you've got a latino bad guy played by Voight and he talks like Bela Lugosi . You've just got to love the way he goes over the top " Velcome to river Dracula . Now I vill kill you by throwing monkey blood at you " 2 ) The draught excluder . In long shots the killer snake is obviously a CGI effect but in close ups it's a giant draught excluder . Laugh out loud as the characters are killed by one of those things you stick beside the door to keep the draught out and admire the actors for keeping a straight faceTalking of straight faces Owen Wilson appears in this and he manges to keep a straight face throughout his performance . He escapes from a wild boar - He keeps a straight face . He makes love to a scatty redhead - He keeps a straight face . He gets attacked by a draught excluder - He keeps a straight face . No matter what calamity befalls his character Wilson manages to keep the same exact straight faced expression . It is also the only film Wilson has been in that the best performance DOESN'T belong to Ben Stiller , the draught excluder is by far the best thespian in this movie
BRAVEHEART Meets THE GREEN BERETS	Does anyone remember BRAVEHEART ? It starred Mel Gibson who also directed and was scripted by Randall Wallace . The film contains over 200 errors . Does anyone remember THE GREEN BERETS ? That's the John Wayne western where the Duke saves a homestead called Vietnam from a bunch of injuns from the commie tribe . If you watch WE WERE SOLDIERS you can't help but be reminded of these two films . First of all what's with that Scottish lament that's played three times in the movie , four if you count the end credits ? I mean what's the connection between Scotland and ' Nam ? Maybe Wallace is using it in the vain hope that because BRAVEHEART was bombarded - Undeservedly I might add - with several Oscars then so might this film ? Whatever reason it's included it really jars . Gibson plays Hal Moore as a cross between William Wallace and John Wayne and I was expecting him to say something like " They'll never take our freedom - The hell they will " and it's impossible not to notice other similarities with THE GREEN BERETS like the subplot of a journalist picking up a gun and turning into a warrior and Moore telling the journalist about guilt in a scene almost identical to the one seen in the Wayne movieWhen not reminding the audience of other movies WWS also fails to stand on its own legs , it's based on real events in 1965 but seems to lack an integrity needed to do the story justice , it never feels like 1965 and lacks a sense of time and place probably because it was filmed in America not Asia . Hal Moore might have brushed up on the French experience in Indo-China but if that's the case then he was unique because the American military went out of their way not to read up on the French Indo-China war , indeed when asked about the previous conflict Westmoreland replied he had nothing to learn from the French " Who haven't won a war since the days of Napoleon " so I was confused as to the portrayal of the NVA in this movie , when in 1965 the American high command , brimming with hubris held the North Vietnamese and VC in contempt . It's like history has been rewritten in order to show the rice farmers of Vietnam are superlative warriors . They are , but very few Americans believed this in the mid 1960sThere's a couple of other things that confused me like how the wives back home get telegrams telling them their husbands are dead ? No bodies are shown being flown back to base and no one on screen is seen referring to who's been killed in the La Drang valley . Likewise we're not seen reinforcements arrive on screen so how do we suddenly see the Americans out number the NVA ? I put these down as directorial / editing blunders on the part of Wallace who doesn't strike me as much of a director , and his biggest problem seems to be communicating the horror of the battle . Take the scene where the American burned to a crisp is flown away screaming " Tell my wife I love her " . This should have an emotional impact similar to THAT death scene in PLATOON but here there's no impact . In fact I found the scene cliched and patronising , and he's not the only character to mouth the words " Tell my wife . . . " while mutilated or dying , I counted at least two other characters use the phrase . Did characters actually say this at the battle ? I've no idea but since Randall Wallace wrote the script I do have reservationsI sat in shocked awe watching APOCALYPSE NOW , PLATOON and THE KILLING FIELDS made my eyes water , I laughed at FULL METAL JACKET , I kept looking at my watch with THE DEER HUNTER , and after seeing WE WERE SOLDIERS I felt totally patronised
Retrogade Werewolf Movie	I can't honestly believe that this is a sequel or follow up of John Landis classic comedy horror movie from 1981 . I suppose you can't really describe it as an original werewolf movie either since the bare bones of the story steal elements from the one set in London : An American tourist visits a famous European capital , he narrowly survives a werewolf attack that kills a colleague , he embarks ( Pardon the pun ) on a sexual relationship with someone in the medical profession , he turns into a werewolf , he's visited by apparitions of his dead victims , etc etc . and reading the previous line I've just discovered how much the storyline has in common with the original that it seems very similar indeed . The difference lies in how enjoyable and entertaining the Landis movie is With this Paris based movie there's no scenes that really stand out . There's no naked man waking up in a zoo wondering how he's going to get back home with no money or clothes , there's no bizarre dream sequence of Naziwerewolves and there's no spectacular climax . AAWIP does try to be funny but is there anything more embarrassing than failed humour ? I'm thinking of the scene where Andy McDermott has to convince someone he's got chewing gum in his pocket and not condoms ! Perhaps the biggest difference between the two movies is that there's no poignancy involved with this dubious follow up . You really do feel sorry for the protagonist's fate and dilemma in the London movie , here you just feel Andy is nothing more than a cypher going through the literary motions of a script . There's also a large number of plot holes visible . Is this the first time The Lunar Club have carried out a massacre ? If not then aren't large numbers of corpses with their hearts torn out been reported in the world's press ? Why haven't the police got leads ? Everyone else has mentioned it and so will I - The visuals are poor . Look at the bungee jumping scene at The Eifell Tower , it's painfully obvious that it's achieved via some blue screen projection while the werewolf transformation is done by some very cartoonish CGI . I won't put Anthony Waller in the same bracket as Stephen Sommers as a director who totally ruins a movie because of an over reliance on CGI ( The major problem with AAWIP is the screenplay coupled with a high degree of expectation from those who saw the 1981 movie classic ) but I would have preferred the Rick Baker type special effects used for the transformation . To be fair it's reasonable to speculate that perhaps the budget didn't stretch that far . But at the end of the day this is a fairly poor horror movie that didn't need to be made and DOG SOLDIERS is much better entertainment
Predictable Star Vehicle	What does the " Executive producer " do in a movie . If I remember correctly it's the person who raised the financial backing to make the movie . You might notice in a great number of movies starring Sean Connery that he is also the executive producer which meant Connery himself raised the money since he is a major player . Unfortunately it should also be pointed out that a great number of movies " starring Sean Connery were solely made because he managed to raise the money since he's a major Hollywood player , it's usually an indication that when the credits read that the executive producer and the star of the movie are one and the same the movie itself is nothing more than a star vehicle with the story / screenplay not being up to scratch PROTOCOL follows the saga of one Sunny Davis a kooky bimboesque cocktail waitress who saves a visiting dignitary and as a reward gets made a top diplomat . Likely ? As things progress Ms Davis ( Who has problems being able to string two sentences together ) finds herself in more outlandish and less likely situations . When I say that PROTOCOL stars Goldie Hawn who is also the film's executive producer do you understand what I'm saying about the story / screenplay not being up to scratch ? Exactly
It Didn't Really Exceed My Expectations But It Tried	One of the problems I have with the BBC is how politically correct it is , political correctness being an inverted fascist philosophy I have no time for , I'm an adult and I can make up my own mind on issues without the BBC doing a long running story on EASTENDERS dealing with race issues or having to put up with agenda driven " entertainment " like ALL ABOUT ME telling me what to think . In short I wasn't expecting much from ENGLAND EXPECTS a much hyped drama from the BBC dealing with racism ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! It starts off well with the underrated Steven McIntosh playing Ray who works as a security guard . He's best friends with a collegue who is not only black but who makes jokes about Asians and so right away we're not seeing an expected polemical diatribe that shows white people = bad and non white people = good . An even bigger shock arrives when we see a smack dealer who's Asian and who is selling drugs to Ray's teenage daughter ! This is not a drama where the BBC sticks its ridiculous PC nonsense down the audience throats and for that it deserves much credit . However despite its opening ENGLAND EXPECTS falls apart , due not to the politics but due to gaps in logic , characterisation and some weak scriptingIt's never revealed onscreen as to which organization Ray was a " vanguard " member of providing physical protection to the unnamed party shown , but it's almost certainly the British National Party is the one in question which means Ray is a former member of the notorious Combat 18 . Would a one time C-18 member EVER be friendly with a black collegue at work ? Wouldn't it have been better to portray Ray as a completely average Joe ? Oh and Ray later starts stalking a woman at work which is a rather unconvincing and unnecessary subplot , and most unconvincing of all Ray dies in a completely contrived manner at the end , an ending that hints we're about to be on the recieving end of a bombing campaign by teenage racist virgins living in bedsits ! ENGLAND EXPECTS does deserve some credit . It's not really patronizing and I can't really fault it on the grounds of being politically correct , in fact it does make the point that a large section of the mainstream white population are alienated by weak politicians and strong market forces in Britain today but this teleplay doesn't reach its full potential . If the production team had spent a little more time making Ray a little more credible in terms of both characterization and motive and had come up with a better ending this would have been devestating and unforgettable , it would have been British TV drama at its best
" Something's Wrong " - Yeah The Script	SPOILERS I wasn't all that taken with the original X-MEN movie but since it was the introduction of a franchise I forgave the flaws like the underdeveloped themes of antagonism between the humans and mutants . X-2 has no such excuses however since the plot revolves around Magneto and a rogue human general trying to start a war between the humans and mutants . Well I used the word " Plot " but just like in a Roger Moore Bond film or a typical Hollywood summer blockbuster the plot gets drowned out by explosions , stunts and special effects It's here I wish to absolve the screenwriters for most of the blame of a muddled underdeveloped story because I can imagine the screenplay being repeatedly returned to the writers with a note saying " Okay Jean and Wolverine are in love but there's not enough teen romance so introduce a couple of teen characters " and " The boys at special effects have come up with a new morphing effect so write a few scenes where we can show it off " Note to Hollywood studios - If you think writing a screenplay is so easy try writing one . Then after you've done that write another one and anotherRegardless of the pressure they were under there is a couple of things the writers are guilty of and that's the mutants using their special powers to escape from a tight spot . F-16s on the tail of the escaping X-Men , I bet Storm can conjure up a few twisters . Yup thought so and this type of cheating takes place far too often but the fundamental error lies in a way a character is killed . If Jean dies at the end of the film it's logical that Jean should be the focus of the story but for some reason it's Wolverine who's the focus for much of the story which is a blunder on the part of the screenwriters So I wasn't too keen on this sequel at all and as recent blockbusters like LORD OF THE RINGS and THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL show a good memorable fantasy adventure is down to a script that allows good actors to act and have special effects that arise naturally from the story . Cramming a film with special effects just isn't enough any more
Might Have Been Good . . .	. . . If I knew what was happening SPOILERS This gets off to a gripping though disturbing start . The computer system at a British maximum security prison breaks down releasing the prisoners who take their frustrations out on the prison officers - cue some distressing violence and it's down to Max Raines to find out what caused the system to fail . The ending is also memorable in its totally totally downbeat outlook , so much so that I doubt if I could watch it again and that must be seen as something for a failure , though WIPE OUT suffers from an even bigger failing The first episode of this five part serial is compelling and as the story goes on it's revealed that the prison computer system has been hacked in to by terrorists . As I sit in front of my PC and as you read this review you don't need any explanation as to what hackers are , you don't need any explanation what computer networks are etc but WIPE OUT was broadcast in 1988 when the average member of the public had no knowledge of computers so for episodes two three and four the plot revolves around Raines being told how computers work and I can't explain how drawn out and tedious this is , and I not ashamed to admit that these conversations went miles above my head and by the end of the second episode I'm certain the average viewer would have been lost as to where the plot was going and decided to do something more entertaining like watch paint dry instead There's also a character subplot involving Raines . He has flashbacks to Kenya as a child where his parents were murdered by the Mau Mau . At the end the terrorists have been stopped in their tracks just as their about to hack into the world's nuclear missile codes causing World War Three . A civil servant then reveals that Raines parents were actually murdered by the British ( I can't remember the reason why ) so in a fit of rage Raines runs over to the console setting off the world's nuclear weapons and the final scene is a montage of missiles in flight . As I said it's such a bleak and depressing ending as to be unwatchable and what is the subtext to this ? I suppose doesn't matter since the ending is as confusing as the bits that preceded it
Sex Sells	The director of L'AMANT or THE LOVER as it's known in Britain was directed Jean Jacques Annaud who would later go on to make ENEMY AT THE GATES a pretty good war film that suffers from having a sex scene that seems out of place . The problem with his earlier movie is that everything else feels out of place except the sex scenes Am I alone in thinking this is a ridiculous movie ? The sex scenes are pretty explicit which may shock large portions of the audience but the non sexual scenes that drive the narrative seem to contradict the shock . It's supposedly to have been inspired by the true story of a French teenager who embarked on a relationship with a Chinese man in the early 20th century which shocked France at the time . Of course sexual mores were different in those days and the idea of inter racial sex may be rather blase nowadays but this taboo is even more diluted by the casting of English actress Jane March who looks anything but French / White European , in fact she looks like she's of Asian extraction herself ! Apologies if I'm wrong of Ms March's ethnic origins but that's how she looks . Couldn't the director have employed some artistic license and cast a blond actress so the audience are in no doubt that this is a story of lust between two people of different ethnic backgrounds ? Even the intrusive female voice over sounds like it's coming from an Asian actress and not a French woman ! As for the story itself - What story ? It's basically plot less with several scenes that seem to have either started or have finished too soon ( Watch this movie and tell me if the editor has done an awful job or not ) and occasionally a scene appears where the two protagonists have sweaty sex in bed or on a floor and considering everything I've said the only real topic of conversation surrounding this movie when it was released is how explicit they were for a relatively mainstream movie . Who was it said " Sex sells " ? Probably the distributors of THE LOVER
Unconvincing	If asked how I would define the word " Shallow " I would reply " Watch a Jerry Bruckheimer production " . If asked how I would define the phrase " Wasted potential " I would reply " Watch a Jerry Bruckheimer production " . Bruckheimer productions are nearly always sure fire hits at the box office but nearly always receive critical pannings from the critics . Off the top of my head I can only think of AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN and BLACK HAWK DOWN getting a lot of critical acclaim . CRIMSON TIDE too received some begrudging acclaim from critics , it's certainly one of Bruckheimer's better films which alas isn't saying much . The problem I had is the scenario that sets up the story : The Russians are fighting the Chechens and the conflict spreads through the whole of Russia leading to an ultra nationalist Russian to take over a nuclear missile base and threaten the West if they interfere . Maybe the ending of the cold war had everything to do with it but I found this set up very unconvincing . It's not helped by some errors in geography like the French carrier Foch being in the Med ( Wouldn't the Foch be better positioned in the black sea ? ) or that the expositional newsreel consists of familar footage featuring conflicts from the Balkans , the first gulf war and even Vietnam . Once again the adjective " Very unconvincing " crept into my mind . The story does improve somewhat when the story proper - A battle of wills concerning orders between a nuclear submarine commander and his number two - gets underway . Director Tony Scott does his best as do the cast , but the problem still lies in an unconvincing scenario . The worst thing is that if this had been made in the mid 1980s when WW3 was a real possibility - Nay probability - this film would have terrified me , but after the cold war ended so had the dangers of nuclear war which means CRIMSON TIDE has little impact .
Not As Good As It Could Have Been . . . .	. . . . But not as bad as it could have been either I had a problem with the title of this movie . What does " I Went Down " conjure up to you ? I thought thought we'd be seeing a bio-pic on Monica Lewinsky I seriously did but instead found myself watching a black comedy road movie This is a co-production between the BBC and the Irish film council made at the same time when British film production was picking up thanks to TRAINSPOTTING and THE FULL MONTY . There's aspects that give a vague nod British production premise of having a couple of losers in the shape of Git Hynes and Bunny Kelly make an unlikely journey but the Irish influence adds a lot of charm to the story that was missing in say THE FULL MONTYThere are a few problems though . One is that the director seems to bottle out of wanting to use on screen violence . For example Git is shown getting into a fight early in the movie which ends with a bottle being smashed on a table then it cuts to a character telling Git how angry he is that a character has been maimed . It's like the director went out of his way not to show any serious violence . There's also a few unlikely occurrences throughout the movie usually involving Bunny . You'll know them when you see them I'm sure Having said that I WENT DOWN is a lot better than many other movies that were funded by public bodies in the British Isles round about the same time . It's by no means a great movie but is far more entertaining than say THE LIFE OF STUFF and THE SLAB BOYS
Lacks Realism	Clint Eastwood is very highly regarded in Hollywood via his performances in films like THE GOOD THE BAD AND THE UGLY and DIRTY HARRY . He's also well regarded as a director with films like PLAY MISTY FOR ME and UNFORGIVEN , but what a lot of people forget is Eastwood has starred in or directed plenty of poor films like FIREFOX , THE EIGER SANCTION , THE DEAD POOL and HEARTBREAK RIDGEThe worst thing about HEARTBREAK RIDGE is its totally unconvincing portrayal of the modern American marine corp . I can't say I rate the USMC as the best fighting force in the world but even so I reckon that any ex US marine watching this film would feel insulted by the way the troops are portrayed as being undisciplined wide boys and pop star wannabes . They volunteered to be marines so why do they seem to be so reluctant to follow orders ? So much for professionalism . Worst scene is where Cpl Stich Jones tells Eastwood's character to " Hit the road Jack and don't come round no more no more no more " The battle scenes - which seem to take an eternity to come - are also unconvincing especially the bit where the marines overcome a Cuban machine gunpost with a bulldozer . Strangely there is a scene where the marines have to communicate to their commanders via a public pay telephone and this actually did happen a couple times during Operation Urgent Fury though not for the reasons shown in HEARTBREAK RIDGE . I also believe I'm correct in saying the only USMC deaths in the operation were three marine pilots who were killed when their Cobra helicopter gunship was shot down . Deaths resulting from OP Urgent Fury American - 29Cuban - 71Grenadan Military - 110Grenadan Civilian - 45
A Weak Horror Comedy	If you watch the opening title sequence you can easily understand the problem with the rest of the movie : A transvestite falls dying against a window consciously telling the audience " It's not what you think , it's not what you think " . Seconds later something stirs in the bushes back to camera , the figure turns and we see it is a werewolf - then the action cuts to a radio studio ! And that sums up the movie . Camp transvestites are not laugh inducing while sequences that reveal the previous action was part of radio play is akin to someone waking up and discovering it was a bad dream . Bad dream sequence = bad movie I know that fusing comedy with horror is never easy but when you've got some talented people behind and in front of the camera you should demand more . Gene Wilder directs and he worked on YOUNG FRANKENSTIEN . Trying to tell me he forgot everything he knew from that classic comedy horror ? I also couldn't noticing that most of the cast are British . You'll recognise most of their faces if not their names and you can't help but notice their absolutely atrocious American accents ! I really do hate it when American actors try ( And fail ) to do British accents and we've got a trans Atalantic role reversal here . Trying to tell me Jonathan Pryce couldn't have done better ? I won't waste any more words on this movie except to reiterate that it's a lazily written , badly acted and hugely disappointing film
Not Much Of A Tribute	Peter Ustinov died a few days ago and is traditional with stars dying the BBC showed a film as a hasty tribute , and what film did we get as a tribute ? SPARTACUS where Ustinov gives a show stopping performance as a slave trader ? Nope . Another Oscar performance this time from TOKAPI ? Nope . What about ASHANTI ? , it's a film a lot of critics can't stand but Ustinov's politically incorrect performance had me in stiches . No can do . The film we got was VIVA MAX a slap stick comedy that seems a bit of a slap in the face as far as tributes go Ustinov plays the title character of Max very well but to be honest VIVA MAX isn't much of a comedy . It might be politically incorrect but it's also very unsophisticated . The Mexicans decide to recapture the Alamo . Let's be honest , does that sound like there's going to be a lot of milage in this premise ? You're right there isn't so we're treated to scenes featuring silly Mexican soldiers fighting off silly American soldiers with fire hoses and exchanges of dialogue along the lines of " Drop your weapons - No you drop your weapons - No you drop your weapons - No you drop your weapons " and it's all done with the subtlety of THE BLUES BROTHERS another film where I didn't start laughing
Probably The Worst Years Tape	If I remember correctly only FIVE of Patrick Troughton's stories remain their entirety in the BBC archive and this is quite disgraceful considering the quality of the eraJon Pertwee ( He is The Doctor as far as I'm concerned ) introduces the episodes and like the other years tapes the written linking material is very poor . What is also very poor are the episodes selected , most fans would have picked The Evil Of The Daleks episode 2 , The Web Of Fear episode 1 and an episode featuring the cybermen . Instead what we got wasThe Abominable Snowmen episode 2 - This the debut adventure of the Yeti and is supposed to be set in Tibet , but strangely looks like it was filmed in Wales . That's because it was ! I guess if you're a fan of the show you have to use your imagination now and again . The only other episode featuring the Yeti that remains in the BBC archives is The Web Of Fear episode 1 which involves an evacuted London with the Yeti creeping around the underground . It's a masterpiece and should have been chosen for inclusionThe Enemy Of The World episode 3 - I guess this was selected to show what a fine character actor Troughton was since he plays a dual role as the villain of the piece , a scheming politician called Salamander . Troughton is a fine character actor but since this episode is very talky and features no monsters it's not very representative of the show or the eraThe Space Pirates episode 2 - To be blunt this episode is a load of crap with a bunch of non actors doing unconvincing American accents and once again this episode is devoid of any monsters . Did you know children used to hide behind the sofa when they heard the DOCTOR WHO theme ? That's because it nearly always had scary monsters in it . This and the previous episode didn'tAlmost certainly the worst of the DOCTOR WHO Years that was released
A Buddy Movie	Buddy movies were very popular in the 1980s , less popular in the 1990s and non existent at the turn of the century . I think the reason they're non existent these days is that it's a genre that is very , very limited as anyone who has seen more than a very small handful of buddy movies can testify . It all comes down having a hard boiled cop matched up with a contrasting character and there you have it 48 HOURS is better than most simply down to the fact that it was a fairly original idea at the time and where the movie works best is with the violent thriller element . Some of the violence is quite shocking down to the fact that it's so cold blooded . Take the " Nice gun " scene which is an uneasy scene to watch down to the cold calculating way the violence is dispensed . A murder scene doesn't have to gory for it to be disturbing , something that I hope directors will take note of Where the film is less successful is when it's trying to be amusing . I do confess I've always disliked Eddie Murphy down to the fact that he always seems to play the same wise cracking urbane black dude in every movie he's appeared in and here he's every bit as irritating as every movie he's been in . Oh and did I spot a blunder where Murphy and Nolte's characters are introduced at the prison cell block ? Nolte's cop asks Murphy's con to help him find a fugitive - Right in front of a crowded prison wing and Murphy agrees ! I was under the impression that if anyone did that in real life they'd get capped by the inmates before they left the gates . Failing that they'd be watching their back for the rest of their life on the outside , no one likes a prison stoolie How much you enjoy 48 HOURS comes down to how much you enjoy buddy movies . I enjoyed it in parts but as some people have already pointed out you can get too much of a good thing
Tonight Matthew I Shall Be Ripping Off Famous Thrillers	This was well publicised due to the fact it featured STARS IN THEIR EYES presenter Matthew Kelly in a straight acting role as a convicted serial killer . No don't laugh , Mr Kelly has appeared in several sitcoms and spends Christmas time acting in family pantomimes and I hear he's very good at playing Captain Hook in PETER PAN down by the seaside . You think he's a camp TV presenter ? Oh no he isn't It's Kelly's role that's the most talked about aspect to this TV drama and one can't thinking it's talked about for the wrong reasons . Clean shaven and bespectacled Kelly plays Brian Wicklow a serial killer sentenced to the rest of his life in prison . Alas Wicklow resembles Timothy Lumbsden from BBC sitcom SORRY rather than a cold blooded killer and this makes the story unintentionally laughable . The other convicts aren't exactly terrified by him either and they break wind in his general direction . I was expecting the insult of " Your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberry " to be hurled at Wicklow . Oh and Wicklow takes hissy fits at the other prisoners . I defy you to watch this without tears running down your legs No doubt the producers were hoping COLD BLOOD was going to be a disturbing and haunting adult thriller but instead of coming up with ideas of their own they ripped off other superior thrillers , I mean the plot line involves things we've already seen before in MESSIAH ( he's not the messiah he's a very naughty boy ) , CRACKER and most obvious of all SILENCE OF THE LAMBS where the cops delve into the mind of Wicklow to find out how a serial killer acts ( Hopefully better than anyone else in this production - That shouldn't be too difficult ) which leads me to ask if we'll ever see Sir Anthony Hopkins presenting a TV talent show where the contestants dress up as their favourite pop star and belt out their hits ? I should hope not
Hardly HBO's Greatest Moment	HBO were credited as producing this TVM the same company that produced critically acclaimed hard hitting dramas like OZ and THE SOPRANOS so right away I was expecting some in your face intense drama along with explicit scenes of lesbian love making . Unfortunately I was very disappointed on both counts in this anthology drama Story one ) This centres around a lesbian couple who have lived together for decades . The home owner dies so her distant family decide to sell the house meaning her partner will become homeless . I can't help thinking there's an agenda here , one that screams in support of civil partnerships . Whatever the rights and wrongs of this it should be pointed out that there's a lack of logic to the premise . All the dead woman had to do was change her will while she was alive Story two ) A bunch of feminist " lesbian " students find the going tough when their college commitee turn against them though for one of them it leads to a happy ending . This is what I don't understand - Are they lesbians or are they just trendy students jumping on a bandwagon ? I think they are but the script is neither scathing or cynical enough to make this point clearer Story three ) HBO doesn't do comedy very well and this third story is trying to be a comedy . We also have to put up with a lesbian whining to her girlfriend " Why can't I give you a baby ? " That's because you're a woman dear . I was also puzzled how anyone who looks like Sharon Stone has a problem finding sperm Not as bad as it could of been but as someone who thinks HBO is the most outstanding TV company in America I think they should concentrate on dramas featuring gangsters and maximum security prisons
Perhaps Too Objective In Places . . . .	. . . . And not objective enough in other places . This docu-drama concerning the Bermuda triangle can't make up its mind if it's trying to be sceptical or not . Take the case of Flight 19 for example . It tells us flight leader Lt Charles Taylor was experienced but not how experienced . It also tells us he had a strange premonition of something terrible was going to happen that day . He flies off and despite having navigational equipment FT 19 got lost and after losing radio contact with base were never seen again . A Martin Mariner involved in the search also disappeared that day and was believed to have exploded in mid flight . That make of plane had a bad reputation and was described by crews as " A flying gas tank " Much of what the documentary mentioned concerning Flight 19 is myth embellished by writers like Charles Berlitz who seem to have twisted facts or made up their own facts . There's no evidence that Lt Taylor had any forboding that day but witnesses said he appeared to be suffering from a bad hang over . Likewise it's also infactual to say all the planes had navigational equipment as lots of stuff from the planes would be taken and used in the black market . This was very common in those days . Strangely despite repeating myths the docu-drama doesn't mention the greatest myth ( Well it's more of a lie than a myth ) that Lt Taylor's last words were " Don't come after us , they look like they're from outer space " and it's correctly stated that the Martin Mariner exploded in mid flight almost certainly down to a fuel leak so there's no mystery as to its fate . I don't know if the producers were aware of this in 1978 ( It's not mentioned here ) but the theory now about many of the disappearances of ships and aircraft is down to ocean flatulance in the area ie methane gas escapes from the sea bed and this causes sea water to lose its bouyancy causing ships to quickly sink . It's also very explosive which could explain planes disappearing . The documentary does state that there's very strange localised weather patterns and strange electro magnetic fields that have an effect on navigational equipment , so if you're a sceptic like me you won't like it much for repeating myths while non sceptics will dislike for not repeating them
Who Was This Film Made For ? . . .	. . . Probably that guy from MEMENTO who had an attention span of sixty seconds or someone who thinks MTV is one of the movie channels ! STARK RAVING MAD starts with a sequence of a guy in the African veldt who gives the middle finger to a lion . No doubt this film takes its title from this scene because it has absolutely nothing to do with the movie which feels like it was directed by a cocaine cartel . After a bizarre title sequence featuring wild animals the film turns into a heist thriller that blatantly rips off the style of Guy Ritchie I've no idea how STARK RAVING MAD got such a high average rating because I found it entirely irritating with its jarring jump cuts and its totally unconvincing characters who try to come across as cool but end up being totally unrealistic . A lot of people on this page have mentioned that Seann William Scott is their favourite actor which makes me wonder if the only films they have seen are Scott's home movie collection but seeing as Lou Diamond Phillips is in it then Scott is assured of only giving the second worst performance Before everyone hits the no button on the " was this review helpful to you ? " let me add that if you're a mainstream audience film fan then it won't appeal to you . Likewise if you like movies where the cast can go five seconds without using the F word then you probably won't want to watch this either . The fact that two people are credited with both writing and directing STARK RAVING MAD should tell you a lot about it
Better Than I Expected . . . .	. . . . But I have to warn you that since I find Craig Ferguson a simply awful comedian I wasn't expecting anything less than an awful movie . THE BIG TEASE is far from an awful movie but is unfortunately far from being a great one too . The premise isn't bad and involves a Scottish hairdresser going to LA to take part in a hairdressing contest - or so he thinks . The problem with THE BIG TEASE is that the jokes are fairly weak and mainly revolve the old - And we're talking so old they died of old age some time ago and the stench is overpowering - pratfall gags of people walking into sliding doors etcThere's also directorial blunders too . Remember that THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT was a spoof documentary shot on a single video camera ? Then you'll remember that every single scene was shot on a single video camera . With THE BIG TEASE it's obvious the documentary crew only have one camera but in nearly every single scene there's cross cuts long shots etc which prove there's several different cameras used to shoot the movie . Yeah I'm nit-picking for sure but I've never been a fan of mockumentaries , hell I didn't even like THIS IS SPINAL TAP that much For neutrals who have never heard of Craig Ferguson you might find THE BIG TEASE amusing if you see it on TV ( It was ten times more entertaining than the alleged comedy film the BBC showed last night entitled THE WEDDING TACKLE ) but I doubt you'd want to spend money hiring it at the video shop
Boring And Generic	Imagine a film made and set towards the end of the second world war where the Nazis have developed a new secret weapon which will stem the tide of the allied advances in the East and West and it's up to John Wayne or Clark Gable to steal the Nazi weapon and bring it back to the good old US of A . Sounds pretty ( Yawn ) exciting doesn't it ? Now imagine remaking it 40 years later except the enemy are the Commies and the film stars Clint Eastwood as the hero . Will this make the film any better ? Correct it wouldn't . This is a very tedious film . I was going to call it a " thriller " but seeing as it doesn't have much in the way of thrills I'll just call a drama though that's probably the wrong word too . Nothing really happens in this film until Eastwood gets into the Firefox cockpit which leads us through a journey of extremely crap SFX , but the effects aren't even bad enough to laugh at , and this is the best bit of the film . Elsewhere in the film people just walk around calling each other " comrade " a lot and there's a sub plot about anti semetism in the USSR , at least if it'd been set during the second world war we could have seen stereotypical Nazis goosestepping about saying " Heil Hitler " " Actung " and " We have ways of making you talk American pig dog " . And yes the bad guys in FIREFOX are all played by British actors . Haven't seen that in a film before ( Double yawn )
I Guess It Could Have Been Good	INFERNO starts off with a fairly impressive for a TVM starscape effect . We're also introduced to a scientist who's called Heller . Don't you get it ? Heller , Hell-er , Inferno . So I guess someone on the production had some intelligence . However it does become more and more obvious as the TVM progresses that intelligence has been discarded throughout the storyline in order to appeal to an American TVM audience The story itself is overwhelmed by subplots featuring umpteen stock TVM characters like the tough liberal schoolteacher who's trying to save a home boy from a life of crime , the doctor who's lost his medical licence etc . In fact the story concentrates far more on these characters than the approaching disaster that all the potential tension and drama the scenario might have had soon goes up in a puff of smoke , and being a TVM we just know that there won't be a downbeat ending There is an onscreen problem I noticed and that is everytime there's an explosion there's a massive fireball which looks ridiculous not to mention physically impossible . Look at the scene where the national guard are in a fight with a gang . A soldier fires a grenade into a tower block and the whole building explodes in a fire ball . What a small greanade containing no more than a few ounces of high explosive can do that ! No it can't . There's also another scene of army engineers blowing up a dam with plastic explosive and the same fireball effect is seen . Can directors please note that high explosive is not the same as napalm Having said that I did find INFERNO highly watchable for a TVM and at no time did I find myself wanting to turn it off . It did have some potential and let me repeat the special effects are fairly good considering the budget and it's not as bad a TVM as some people are making out
It's Not That Good	It might seem rather morbid now but a prolific topic of conversation in 1983 were video nasties . I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE and NIGHT OF THE DEMON in particular came up in conversation with colleagues and friends on a regular basis but perhaps the most talked about video nasty was THE EVIL DEAD , especially the scenes featuring " The woman and the trees " and " That bit with the pencil " . After finally seeing it that year I was very disappointed . I found it dumb , badly made and badly paced and basically a waste of time . I saw it again last night when it was broadcast as part of Channel 4's " Banned " season and my opinion of it has improved , but only very slightly . This might be because I have become impressed by director Sam Raimi's work over the years most especially A SIMPLE PLAN and THE GIFT , two very intriguing thrillers and feel he'd probably be better sticking to that genre instead of making yet another sequel to SPIDERMAN . Despite the director's later success THE EVIL DEAD is still very flawed . It might have literate roots that other so called video nasties lack ( HP Lovecroft is an obvious influence on this movie ) but it's still basically a bunch of teenagers go into the woods and get killed in a graphic manner type plot . The characters aren't characters at all they're just cyphers to drive the plot along and the acting is poor . They're is some humour but I'm uncertain if this was deliberate on the part of Raimi . Compare this movie to its sequel and tell me what one is actually trying to be funny THE EVIL DEAD is a movie that would probably have become totally forgotten if it wasn't for the director's later success . It remains rather watchable though which is something you can't say about most other cheap and cheerless horror movies from the period , but it's no masterpiece either Yeah I know THE EVIL DEAD isn't a " video nasty " in the true sense so don't message me to point this out
Inept Horror Movie	A lot of people seem to be under the impression that this film is a deliberate attempt at doing a blackly comical horror movie and I guess the opening dialogue of " Look at that faggot . He thinks he's Greta Garbo but he looks like a lemon meringue pie " does give the impression that HORROR HOSPITAL is tongue in cheek but I think it's a just an awful movie Take Judy's introduction scene where she meets Jason on the train ( And lets ignore the fact of how this defies statistical odds ) where she feels uncomfortable in the company of the laddish bloke but for reasons known only to the screenwriter tells both Jason and the audience her entire life story . Yeah I know it's exposition but couldn't it have been done in a more logical manner ? In fact that's the serious problem with the movie there's no type of internal or external logic . Dr Storm gets pushed about in a wheelchair but it's revealed at the end that he never needed a wheelchair in the first place so why has he spent most of the running time in one ? Why haven't the relatives of the lobotomised zombies tracked their loved ones down with the exception of Millie's boyfriend ? These and a hundred other questions are never answered and while HORROR HOSPITAL never really takes itself too seriously that's no excuse for delivering a screenplay ridden with plot holes The directing isn't much better and feels like it was filmed in a cheap and cheerless manner by film students . The female characters of Judy and Millie are played by very pretty girls but unfortunately it's obvious their talents as actresses are non existent which makes me think they were only cast because they were the only females the producers could get who were willing to appear naked . Robin Askwith is alright as Jason but did we expect an Oscar worthy performance ? And I'm afraid Michael Gough is totally wasted . Gough could have been one of Britain's greatest actors of the 20th Century but his undoubted talents were wasted in appearing in total garbage like this , KONGA , TROG and SATAN'S SLAVE . Perhaps the quality of this movie can be summed up by the title credits which read " Guest starring Dennis Price " . When you've got a movie advertising cast members you've never heard of that's always a bad sign
I Managed To Work Out The Ending	! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! NO MAN'S LAND is a curious political thriller . It's set in the near future , or rather is set in the late 1990s where Russia is collapsing due to civil war amongst different ethnic groups leading to a massive influx of refugees into the newly reunified Germany . A policeman called Fisher investigates the murder of a woman who has connection to a refugee group . He follows up some leads and the more he investigates the more danger he finds himself in Did I say this was a political thriller ? That's maybe a wrong description because though politics is involved the narrative and plotting is more like a mystery that Fisher must unravel . Unfortunately I had worked out what scriptwriter David Pirrie's big payoff at the end because the exact same idea had been used nearly 30 years before in a DOCTOR WHO story titled The Faceless Ones by Malcolm Hulke . In that story aliens called Chameleons were abducting humans on air liners after they'd sent relatives postcards home . In NO MAN'S LAND snakehead gangs would get the refugees to send postcards home to their families then after they'd done that they'd murder the refugees . Of course this type of borrowing plot devices is entirely different from plagiarism but it meant that when I saw the refugees innocently writing their postcards I knew the centre of the mystery hence no more suspense as to what was happeningWhat Pirrie can be accused of is writing a speculative political thriller where the politics is skated over very quickly in a shallow manner . In effect it's not about future politics or conflict and the plot could have been set in 1994 the year this teleplay was produced and you'd have the exact same story and one without ill conceived and distracting politics
Unlikely And Predictable	Reading the back of the DVD case of HIGH LONESOME as it's known in Britain I knew how everything was going to work out in the end , but I didn't realise how unlikely it was all going to be . Walter Osgood is the only black man in the county ! I do know there was a lot of racism in the deep south , but the only black man in the county seems highly unlikely . Yeah I know the Deep South was highly racist at this time but to have only one single black man remaining in a whole county does seem highly unlikely indeed and I didn't care at all for all the tedious mawkishness but I guess that's only to be expected from this type of story featuring a young boy I don't want to be totally negative because it is fairly well acted especially by William Fichtner as The Sheriff ( Though again another unlikely arc from his character ) but it's a shame seeing Louis Gosset Jr appearing in such forgettable films as this when he was the most critically acclaimed black actor of the 1980s . I doubt if he'll be getting any more great roles as he did with AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN and THE GUARDIAN
What Happened To Ian McKellen ?	DYING DAY is another story from ITV's ARMCHAIR THRILLER series . It revolves around a gentleman called Anthony Skipling ( Played by Ian McKellen - No I don't know what became of his acting career either ) who befriends a man on a train . This man is a total anorak who likes to record sounds of nature " Badgers farting . Fascinating " . Mr Anorak gets off the train at the station . Moments later there's a tapping on the train window and Mr Skipling turns to see Mr Anorak clawing at the window with his eyes gouged out ! ! ! ! ! MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD ! ! ! ! Mr Anorak leaves behind an audio tape which Skipling plays only to find out that there's a murder plot involved . He goes to the police to inform them of a murder at the train station but the police investigation finds no evidence of this . Worse when Skipling plays the audio tape to the detectives the murder plot has been erased . Another character is introduced into the story ( Sorry but I forgot what his name was ) who seems to be stalking Skipling who over the course of the 4 half hour episodes is becoming more and more insane . In the final episode Skipling snaps and pushes his supposed stalker under a train . I don't know why I typed in major spoilers ahead because it becomes fairly obvious as to where DYING DAY is heading early on . It turns out Mr Anorak isn't actually dead and has used his " murder " and audio tape to make Skipling appear as a deluded man in order to kill the man who is " stalking " Mr Skipling with the story ending with Skipling in a lunatic asylum talking to camera . It's very contrived just like all the other stories under the ARMCHAIR THRILLER banner and is probably only worth seeing if you're interested in watching Sir Ian Mckellen when he had to slum it as an actor
It's Not That Good	In terms of box office bucks this was the most successful film ever . It might have made even more if it wasn't for the fact that a lot of people including myself hadn't watched it on pirate video in 1983 . In truth I don't think it deserved to set the universe alight because of its premise ET starts with a spaceship landing in a desolate woodland one dark night . Now spaceships landing in desolate woodlands on a dark night mean only one thing , if you've seen an episode of THE OUTER LIMITS or DOCTOR WHO or UFO it means trouble for humanity with the human race losing some brave warriors at the very least . You see the problem ? The narrative has just started and already we know nothing horrible is going to happen . This is not what alien landings are about , there not about monsters with extendable necks being vulnarable - They're about carnage , gunfire , explosions and lines like " We can't hold them sir " If anyone thinks I'm missing the point let me say this : Spielberg's first movie was a pseudo horror movie called DUEL a fairly effective thriller ( Casting aside ) about a man driving through desert wilderness . Spielberg then made SOMETHING EVIL a chilling horror film and then made JAWS another legendary quasi horror movie with a monster that exits in reality a great white shark . JURASSIC PARK is to all intents a horror movie , and I bet the upcoming WAR OF THE WORLDS will get a few pulses racing . In other words Spielberg despite his flaws can make an audiences heart leap out of their mouth but his main flaw is that he all too easily drowns an audience in gooey sentimentality . THE TERMINAL suffered from this and so did parts of SCHINDLER'S LIST and SAVING PRIVATE RYAN , and without doubt ET is the best example of Spielberg's sugary sentiment suffocating a story , not that there was much of a story to start with . And I haven't even mentioned the all American kids or the ridiculous flying bikes sequence or the terrible John Williams score . The only significance ET has in my life is that it introduced me to the words " Geek " " Wimp " and " Douce-bag " and that I had to watch nearly every sci-fi movie of the mid to late 1980s revolve around a plot of a cute alien being adopted by a child . Give me THE THING and LIFEFORCE anytime
Wild Thing - I Don't Think I Love You	I thought this was going to be one of those " So bad that it's good " type movies , an optimism that was built on the DOCTOR WHO standard of cave sets ( To be honest the cave sets from DOCTOR WHO are far better ) not to mention Trog's make up or his method of killing people by throwing paper maiche boulders at them . Unfortunately much of TROG descends into a morality play with a political subtext : ie Trog is an allegorical criminal with Doctor Brockton being the voice of progressive compassion while Sam Murdock is the reactionary flog them and hang them type . This might actually be coincidence because the last third of the film goes against the logic of being a morality play , mind you there's little logic to the script in the first place , for example why would jazz make Trog angry and classical music soothe the angry beast ? I'd have thought he'd be unable to notice differing musical styles . How would surgery be able to make him speak ? Language volcalbury and communication isn't only down to vocal ability , oh and there's no way Trog would have been able to recognise dinosaurs as they would have died out millions of years before he existed . TROG is a very patchy Brit B movie . It is enjoyable in places ( For all the wrong reasons ) but you have to sit through a lot of talky scenes for them to arrive
Sums Up What's Wrong With BBC Drama These Days	Anyone remember the docudrama THREADS ? It's a drama documentary which shocked Britain in September 1984 . Whilst not exactly wholly entertained by Mick Jackson's nuclear holocaust horror film I could respect it . Unfortunately I can't respect this docudrama broadcast 20 years later which deals with terrorists letting off a radioactive dirty bomb in the centre of London The problem I have with it is that director Daniel Percival production values are far too good when in fact this would have benefited from rather cheap production values . The cinematography is superb but in this type of speculative drama do we need superb and well lit Oscar standard cinematography ? What we certainly don't need is a musical score as the survivors of the blast slowly stagger out of the smoke . Neither do we need vaguely well known cast members . Did anyone else sit there asking themselves " Hey what was he in ? I know that face " several times ? I know I did and it's very distracting . Perhaps the biggest production flaw with DIRTY WAR is that someone decided to make it a docudrama with too much stylistic emphasis on the drama . In THREADS the action cuts away from the action in Sheffield umpteen times and becomes an edition of HORIZON on the effects of nuclear war before cutting back to the fictional protagonists again and THREADS is very effective because of this . Here the information presented suffocates the drama which drowns in expositional and totally unconvincing dialogue . The characters in the teleplay aren't really characters they're just cyphers there to inform the audience what happens when radioactive material is exploded . It would have been better for the action to cut to captions to convey this type of information ala THREADS . The worse thing is that director Daniel Percival used the same technique as seen in THREADS a couple of years ago with his docudrama about smallpox . He should have used the same style with DIRTY WARI should also lay my cards on the table and state that while I don't consider most Muslims are terrorists I am getting slightly fed up of TV productions like THE HAMBURG CELL , THE GRID and DIRTY WAR having to point out this fact to me by whalloping me over the head with it which is somewhat typical of patronising PC attitudes in TV companies nowadaysI managed to miss the studio debate that Bob mentions here but I have also heard it discussed elsewhere and I can't help thinking it makes better viewing than DIRTY WAR itself with its heated arguments between differing factions of the political spectrum . If DIRTY WAR is remembered twenty years from now ( Highly unlikely I know ) it may well be remembered for the discussion it caused more than anything
Not That Good	I really do have to worry about Jade Carmen . This is the second short I saw from Jade today , the other being PIGGY BANK and both seem to have an unhealthy appetite for crime MR FIRECUL ( Is that an anagram for Lucifer ? ) starts with a young man called Jason throwing a brick through a car window in a very well directed sequence and I have to say that I have no complaints about the technical aspects of the directing since the cinematography and editing are at the very worst more than adequate . However as the story progresses it becomes obvious that the actor Michael Brown who plays Jason is awful in the role . I won't just blame the actor since much of the dialogue is unnatural with lines like " I was scared this morning but not as half as I'm scared now " but even so it's a not a very good performance while casting a once famous French footballer , namely David Ginola , seems like a bad idea As it stands MR FIRECUL is a good example of no matter how talented a director is at technical aspects if you make bad casting decisions it can ruin a screen story
Unoriginal And Dumb	A couple of brothers Lewis and Fuller decide to have a laugh with their CB radio and try to seduce a truck driver which leads to some very serious and violent trouble Sorry guys but I didn't think much of this movie . It's totally unoriginal and most of the fun derived from it is playing " Name that source " . I managed to spot DUEL , JEEPERS CREEPERS and THE HITCHER to name but three . I also managed to spot a few plot holes but let's not get into that , it's a dumb movie so enough said . There is one unappealing aspect to all this when you think about it and that is that Lewis and Fuller brought all this trouble on their own heads and because of this several innocent people die . Compare this with the three movies I mentioned above where the protagonists in peril are genuinely innocent people which means ROADKILL ( As it's known in Britain ) is morally bankrupt in comparison to other films in this sub genre
A Complete Mess	This has got to be one of the worst directed epics I have ever seen . Moments into the movie we see an almost sublime jump cut close up of Napoleon's eye as he talks to his right hand men . I've no idea what this was to signify . I guess that perhaps director Sergei Bondarchuk was a fan of spaghetti westerns And as the film goes on the more I found myself asking what the hell the director was doing . Did Mr Bondarchuk ever read a history book ? Did he ever read ANY book . Come to think of it have the people who are praising the movie at this site been watching the same movie as me ? There's several films called WATERLOO and I'm commentating on the one starring Rod Stieger as Napoleon and Christopher Plummer as the Duke Of Wellington - I've no idea what what everyone else has been watching because this is only slightly accurate script wise - totally inaccurate visually . For example Wellington picked his ground well after a rain storm to lessen the effect of French cannon fire ie the wet ground would cause cannon balls to stick in the ground but according to this movie not only did French cannon balls explode like a bomb but they also exploded into fire balls . Look at the battle scenes where there's literally hundreds of fireballs from cannon fire , it looks more like a napalm strike from APOCALYPSE NOW rather than a great battle from 1815 . Let me just repeat that cannon balls in those days were made out of solid metal . They weren't filled with explosive so they didn't explode and jellyfied petrol ( Napalm ) hadn't been invented yet so no fireballs either I also can't help noticing how badly edited the fight scenes are . In fact they resemble those seen in the John Wayne debacle THE GREEN BERETS and it's often difficult to make out what's going on . If you're going to have a spectacular battle might it not help that the audience can see what's happening ? I've got to be pedantic and criticise the numerous times the red coats are called " The English Army " , it's actually The British Army . Considering there's umpteen times Scottish bagpipes are heard I thought someone would have realised there's a difference between the two . Oh and the British Army was led by the Duke Of Wellington on that day who wasn't an Englishman as referred to here but was in fact Irish born
A Ridiculous Movie	MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE takes stupidity to new depths . How dumb is this movie ? On a scale of one to ten it gets that's how dumb it isThe central plot revolves around the idea that an alien influence is possessing machines in order to rid the world of humanity . Yeah so it's not documentary material but there's worse ideas for a movie , but where everything falls apart is the internal continuity of what constitutes a " machine " , weather satellites and motorised boats don't count but all cars do . Well not all cars because some characters are seen to drive them while other people are being killed by them , don't ask me why this should be , and please don't ask me how the cars and trucks are able to " see " human beings because I don't have a clue either But what really yanked my chain was the lack of logic involved . We see a contraption with a machine gun mounted on it . How could that have been built ? There obviously must of been some metal work involved so do oxy-acelytyne torches and vices count as " machines " or is there some seriously ill thought out writing involved ? I also couldn't help noticing people lying dead after being attacked by remote controlled toy cars and lawn mowers . Even if they were taken over by some unimaginable alien power a toy car wouldn't possess enough potential or kinetic energy to travel hard enough to kill someone . Likewise a homicidal lawn mower could run over your toes but to kill someone seems unlikely Strangely for a Stephen King story ( Which he wrote so he can't blame anyone except himself ) MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE is devoid of characterisation , the characters aren't characters at all they're cyphers just there to spout lines . There's no character interaction and I had a problem remembering most of their names , in fact while watching the movie I forgot most of the characters existed until they got killed , that's how much impression they made on me There are a couple of clever bits amongst the choking stupidity . If you look closely you can see one of the cards at the clocking on machine reads " Gene Poole " ( Geddit ? ) while I there's an in-joke of having a van with the letters AC / DC ( The band who did the music for the movie ) crash around on a bridge but this is one of the most stupid movies from the last 20 years that doesn't even begin to make sense
Rubbish Fantasy Adventure	Doug McClure has starred in a few of these British produced genre adventures and this one has got to be the worst of the lot . I know THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT has its critics but please at least that movie featured location filming and relatively good production values . That's the problem with this movie - The production values go way beyond " So bad they're good " affectionate territory and become " so bad I think I'll go and see what's on the other channels " One case in point is the first scene featuring the intrepid Cushing and McClure encountering a monster . It's painfully obvious the monster is an average sized man dressed up as a rubber monster being made to look over twenty foot tall via overblown back projection . It becomes even more painfully obvious that our heroes are trying to escape the monster by running on the spot . Have I mentioned that this is one of the more convincing set pieces ? No really this looks like it was filmed in somebody's living room with the spare change left over from that year's DOCTOR WHO budget . Even former DOCTOR WHO Peter Cushing is bland and what should have been an amusing line " You can't mesmerise me - I'm British " is delivered in a very flat way ( A very similar line is spoken by Cushing in HORROR EXPRESS ) in a script devoid of characterisation , plotting and memorable dialogue . It's not just the fact that the dialogue is unmemorable it's also infrequent and rare since the monsters don't speak . Wouldn't it have been better having the chief bad guys humanoids like in WARLORDS OF ATLANTIS so that they could explain the plot . Does anyone here know what the plot actually is ? A very tedious British movie that even the twin talents of Caroline Munro can not save . The whole mood of the movie is summed up by the final sequence featuring two keystone cops
Not Very Memorable	The one reason I remember this is that it was shown the week after Nigel Kneale's brilliant QUATERMASS serial was broadcast . The trailers made heavy emphasis that the main character had a mutilated arm which had me hoping he'd be like Victor Caroon from THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT stalking the streets of London . No such luck because THE RACING GAME is just a rather drab thriller with the gimmick of having a hero with a physical disability trying to get to the bottom of investigations of corrupt horse racing . I suppose if you're a fan of Dick Francis you might enjoy it but setting it in the context of the late 70s when THE SWEENEY had just finished and THE PROFESSIONALS was still being produced , there's something lacking about THE RACING GAME . One trailer featured a car over taking another on a motor way , if it'd been a trailer for THE SWEENEY you'd see Jack Regan over taking a car and beating a confession out of the slags who'd done a blag while THE PROFESSIONALS would have over taken a car and blown away the terrorists inside . I think that sums up what's wrong with this series
Effective Enough Soft Core Flick	With a title like 13 EROTIC GHOSTS I was under no illusion what sort of film I'd be watching - A rather threadbare plot revolves around a bunch of supernatural investigators finding out about ghostly happenings after a girls school is struck by lightening and burns down in a special effects sequence that wouldn't look out of place in the cheapest DOCTOR WHO production As you can imagine this threadbare plot is just an excuse to show some lesbian love action and despite the sex scenes not being up to the erotic standard of ALLYSON IS WATCHING the sex scenes are fairly good for this type of genre though to be overly critical there's maybe not enough boy on girl action 13 EROTIC GHOSTS doesn't take itself too seriously and does contain this memorable exchange : " You know she reminds me of my old Co in ' Nam . Iron underpants we called him " " Maybe we should call her Iron implants ? "
I Wasn't Very Impressed	Like THE FULL MONTY this movie wasn't expected to set the box office alight but like THE FULL MONTY it became a massive international sleeper hit . BEND IT LIKE BECKHAM is rather flawed and the flaws are very similar as the ones seen in THE FULL MONTY . First up is the amount of politics involved , concepts like sexism , traditional Sikh family values and even lesbian love are used to get a laugh but at the same time you feel the production is pulling its punches as to how acceptable this type of humour is in 2002 . If you're going to offend people please do it and be damned otherwise don't bother . This extends to my second criticism of who's side the subtext is taking . Forget the fact that Jess is brought up in a Sikh household and ask yourself this : What would your daughter rather be - An amateur footballer or a professional lawyer ? The screenplay seems to imply that Jess parents are in the wrong for wanting the best for their daughter Thirdly has anyone seen what genre the IMDb classes this movie as a Comedy / Action ? Romance / and a couple of more genres . Again there's a bit too many irons in too many fires as to what this movie wants to be I wouldn't say I hated BEND IT LIKE BECKHAM but it's not a movie I'll praise to the high heavens either . I do concede that it's very much a ladette chick flick movie dealing with cultural norms and traditions and isn't really for my type of market . I will respect it as a British movie that made a killing at the box office but like so many Brit flicks ( Namely THE FULL MONTY and 28 DAYS LATER ) BEND IT LIKE BECKHAM could have been a lot better
I'm Getting fed Up With These Shows	I doubt if there's ever been 100 shows marketed exclusively for kids so this Channel 4 list cheats somewhat by including family shows . The winner at number one in the list was THE SIMPSONS but is this actually a show that's specifically produced for children ? I mean it started off as a spot on THE TRACEY ULLMAN SHOW and I doubt if you'll call Ms Ullman a children's entertainer , and much of the humour on THE SIMPSONS will go above children's heads . DOCTOR WHO is classed as a children's show ? Again I would class it as a family show and it's interesting to note that it ' at it's best when it becomes too scary for 6 year olds . How can you compare classic DOCTOR WHO with BAGPUSS and BUTTON MOON ? I found out later ( And Jo points this out ) that Channel 4 wrote a list of 100 shows that they perceive are children's shows and it's then left for the voters to vote what one they think is best . This is entirely different from allowing people to make up their own mind as to what qualifies as a children's show . There's something else and that's when this show was produced Channel 4 were in negotiations to buy THE SIMPSONS . Strange that Homer Simpson also won THE 100 GREATEST TV CHARACTERS poll later on which leads me to think the poll might have been rigged
Spoiled By The leading Man	This is a love story featuring themes like guilt and redemption : Buddy Amaral swaps plane tickets with someone out of the goodness of his heart but the plane Buddy should have been on crashes killing the man . Grief stricken Buddy hits the bottleAs you can guess Buddy is an intense role to play . It takes a certain type of moody , fervent actor to pull of this role so what idiot thought it'd be a good idea to give the role of Buddy to Ben Affleck ! That's right Ben Affleck an actor who has spent the last couple of years appearing in shampoo commercials which is probably Affleck's level . Someone who's an alcoholic should be at war with themselves , trying to get a grip on their demons but for some reason the leading man thinks an alkie is someone who's suffering from severe constipation while tripping over their feet , a sort of Norman Wisdom on speed . You'd think any actor who found this type of part beyond them ( yes Ben this is way beyond you ) would have done something obvious like drink a half bottle of vodka on set to give a convincing performance of a drunken waster but it obviously never occurred to Affleck Have I mentioned I didn't like Affleck's performance ? Good because in a film like this its success or failure rests entirely on the leading man's performance and no matter how interesting or involving or how well written the romantic aspects of the story are if there's not enough grief or self conflict shown by the male star then the film won't work and BOUNCE fails for this one reason
Tiresome Satire	After appearing in TITANIC Kate Winslet had the world at her feet so just to prove she was a versatile flexible actress she decided to become typecast as a hippy chick . In the space of one year she appeared in HOLY SMOKE where she plays a free spirit who seeks seclusion with drugs in India and another film ( Oh dear I've forgotten what it's called ) where she plays a free spirit who takes off with her kids to seek seclusion with drugs in Morroco . Yep nothing like playing the same role to prove your versatile flexibility . I wonder if Kate will be playing a survivor of a ship wreck sometime soon ? Anyway HOLY SMOKE is a satire . Don't you get it ? India , hippy chick , religion , drugs , that's why the movie is called HOLY SMOKE ! Gosh you'd have to be Stevie Wonder not to see that . Unfortunately the word satire is almost an anagram of tiresome and like CATCH 22 I found myself wishing that this had been written , directed and played in a far more straight and dead pan way . The whole premise of a cult member being mentally deconstructed into normality screams out for a serious handling of the subject matter but everything soon descends into frivolity . In fact I was expecting Graham Chapman Colonel to appear at any moment saying " Stop this film at once , it's getting too silly " . I have to be honest and say I thought this was going to be a serious angst ridden drama with Harvey Kietel traveling to India to save the soul of Katie girl from some oddball gurus who might be more interested in her body than her soul . Needless to say that's not what I got and unless you're expecting silliness instead of thought provoking drama I can't really recommend this movie unless you have detailed prior knowledge of the plot
Overplayed	Angela Beale a famous actress is charged with murdering her violent husband . The problem with this premise is that the very first scene sees Angela acting all strange as she bangs on doors telling everyone she killed her husband , though maybe that's not accurate . Maybe I should be saying the actress playing Angela - Gina Gershon - gives a masterclass in how to mug and over act for the camera in order for the audience to know that maybe she didn't kill her husband in self defenceThat's the problem with LEGALSESE it's ridiculously overplayed , so much so that you have to turn off the sound and avoid looking at the screen to stop the performances assaulting your senses . Bob Hoskins said that the camera can read your mind and it's true so why didn't the cast in this movie realise this ? I notice that the screen credits say Glenn Jordan was the director while Billy Ray wrote the script but since TNT was the TV company that produced this I have the feeling LEGALSESE was the brain child of Ted Turner . The villain of the story is Norman Keane . Is he a surrogate Rupert Murdoch by any chance ? No doubt this TVM is trying to be satirical but for satire to work via a narrative story subtlety is needed and there's no subtlety in sight - Only very loud acting
Painfully Dated	This was shown earlier tonight on BBC 2 as a " Paul Merton shows us his favourite comedy moments " themed night and similar to those MOVIEDROME segments from many years ago Merton introduced the movie and its background . Apparently on its release the critics hated it while everyone who went to watch it in the cinema ( In those days you could smoke in cinemas ) took a dubious brand of tobacco with them It's very easy to see why critics hated it at the time . These were people who had at the start of the decade seen countless British kitchen sink dramas , then saw by the mid 1960s British movies financed and produced by Hollywood , movies like DR NO and ZULU but by the late 60s were watching full blown psychedelic things like this . I guess it was too " Mod " for the critics . Evidentally it was made for a youth culture audience who bought records by The Doors , Jimi Hendrix and like their tobacco to be a little more exotic than the stuff you bought in the corner shop As for the film itself it's impossible to review in 2005 since it's a film on its time ( Merton pointed this out in his introduction ) and resembles one of those anti narrative plots similar to what Richard Lester was making . I goes without saying it's painfully dated and I couldn't understand what the heck it's about and many scenes reflect this . Laurence Harvey does Hamlet then strips naked , Roman Polanski stands at a bar as the colour changes to a green sepia while several scenes look like they're an advert break or a pop video or were included because it seemed like an amusing idea . If you were old enough to enjoy the 1960s you might still enjoy this movie as a nostalgic period piece comedy . If it was before or after your time you'll probably not enjoy it
How True Is It ?	Why is it whenever a serial killer is sentenced TV companies decide to make a TVM about the case ? This is a bad idea on both grounds of taste and artistic licence . UNABOMBER : THE TRUE STORY is no better than most of these true crime TVMs . In fact it's probably worse because much of the storyline descends into soap opera territory - the killer's brother falls in love love ? Oh big deal . But my biggest beef is to do with the portrayal of investigator Ben Jeffries . So much of his early detective work to profiling the unabomber is down to intuition is it ? Great , maybe if the police used simple intuition to catch criminals instead of eyewitness statements and forensic evidence they'd be more criminals in prison - they'd certainly be more people in prison . And seeing as his real life name isn't Ben Jeffries I'm led to ask how much of the other facts in the story have been changed . At no time did I feel there was any explanation as to why Theodore Kaczynski decided to become a terrorist against the technological society . He published an anti - tech manifesto I know and the TVM quotes this but the audience are never told what caused his resentment against the modern era in the first placeGive this a miss because you won't learn anything . And I also wish to point out that if someone is called Theodore it doesn't always make them a mass murderer
Crude British Sex Comedy	This is a strange sex comedy because there's very little comedy but a whole lot of sex , most of which takes place in the back of a car and is so graphic it makes BASIC INSTINCT look like an edition of TELETUBBIES . I kid you not , the sex in this film is so in your face it might just choke you , especially if you're watching with your grandparents . As for the rest of RITA , SUE AND BOB TOO there's not much else worth mentioning except the language where every single sentence seems to contain the F word . This a rather bleak hyper-realist British film made at a time when Channel 4 was the main investor in British movies which explains its made for television low budget feel
Bond Deconstruction	This starts with a man wearing a tux getting killed by some Slavic gangsters at a Nu-Metal gig . It's never mentioned on screen but the implication is that the dead man is Bond , James Bond and throughout the movie where treated to an alternative universe where the world is no longer saved by sophisticated suave secret agents but saved by a loud crass extreme sports loving American Did I use the word " treated " in the above paragraph ? Maybe that's too much of a strong word because XXX isn't much of a treat . Okay I disagree with many of the people claiming this was the worst movie of 2002 but Rob Cohen is a very shallow director while Vin Diesel is a laughably bad actor who makes Sylvester Stallone look like Anthony Hopkins in comparison . What compounds this problem is the amount of homage the movie pays to the Bond series . Isn't this movie trying to do away with Bond ? So why does Xander Cage borrow lines like " The things I do for my country " which sounds a lot like " The things I do for England " from YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE . all throughout the movie we're treated ( Again that's maybe not the right word ) to little nods and winks to Fleming's superhero which makes the movie end up being a 21st century homage to JB and I doubt if this was the original intension . The story structure mirrors that of the franchise of cramming in several different locations because it seemed like a good idea at the time , so much so you find yourself forgetting what the original plot was , there's a femme fatale and the bad guy wants to start effectively world war three . Seen it all before XXX is dumb , loud and spectacular when it needed some wit and a better leading man . If your only requirement in a movie is stunts and explosions you'll no doubt enjoy it but I do prefer substance in a movie
Cheap And Formuliac TVM	I was looking forward to seeing this ( Believe me I hardly ever look forward to watching a TVM ) simply because the director is Nick Gomez a semi regular director of the ultra gritty HBO prison classic OZ . The story starts off with a rather explict scene ( For a TV movie ) of someone being shot dead then a prosecuting attorney discussing male rape so I was all set for a gritty crime thriller However It soon becomes clear that the story is just another one of those " Socially upwardly mobile professional women in peril " type thrillers which you've seen so many times before . As someone else has pointed out it's so darkly lit it's almost impossible to see what's going on half the time . It also becomes clear early on that it's not produced by a cable company like HBO therefore there's strictly enforced guidelines as to what can and cannot be shown on screen - No bad language , no sex and no explicit violence . In other words FINAL JEOPARDY is just another made for television chick flick
What's The Plot ?	Before I go any further may I just point I don't like the western genre . I thought I'd mention this because it's obvious from this page that the other reviewers love these movies and I have the instinct that they would have loved to have lived west of the Missouri river one hundred and thirty years ago and who can blame them ? The reason I pointed this out is because I didn't want to hurt anyone's feelings but a film reviewers got to do what a film reviewers got to do and this is to mention that RIDE LONESOME has a totally unfocused plot . The film starts with a bounty hunter arresting a fugitive at gun point but then the plot gets more and more confusing as we're treated to a sub plot featuring injuns who want to marry a white woman etc which puzzled me where the film was going . I suppose it does have some worth since it features early screen roles for Lee Van Cleef and James Coburn but because of the lack of narrative coherence it failed to hold my interest . Western fans obviously enjoyed this movie though
Bleak And Arty	SILENT SCREAM is a biopic about convicted murderer Larry Winters . However not content with making a standard prison film the director David Hayman throws a massive spanner in the works by making the movie an art house picture with fractured time lines . We know that Winters served in the army , that he murdered a bar man in cold blood and that he's serving a life sentence but that's all we really find out as the story keeps jumping around to different times and places . There's a vague notion that if you treat dangerous criminals with dignity they can be rehabilitated but this point isn't really hammered home , and unless you're aware of Scottish culture like the sectarian divide in the West of Scotland you'll find much of the film confusing . It's also a rather bleak film not helped by its obvious lack of budget and I can only recommend it if you're interested in seeing Brit film star Robert Carlyle and well known TV star Julie Graham in cameo roles
Something Of A Misnomer	This movie is called ELECTION and right from the outset I had it in my head that this movie might actually be about an election . It is to an extent premisewise featuring a little miss know all perfect running as school president but it's also a black comedy and as legendary film school guru is fond of telling his students you never ever market a screenplay as a black comedy because it's the one genre no one can define , " Black comedy " can mean absolutely anything and watching ELECTION unfold I wasn't too sure if the producers were certain if they knew where this movie was heading either . For example the storyline is overwhelmed by too many characters . These characters are often given little background stories via a voice over but more often than not these characters are superfluous to the plot , or at least the premiseBelieve it or not I though ELECTION had too much sex in it . Again this is probably down to the producers who seem to want to turn the movie into a sex comedy which affects the mood of the movie at times . The sex also tends to make the characters unlikable since they're all getting their fair share . Considering this is a movie made for a teen audience how many teenagers in the audience do you believe will be able to empathise with characters getting lots and lots of sex ? Perhaps ELECTION could have done with another title ? Something along the lines of ELECTION , BUT MANY PARTS ARE Unfocused AND THE CHARACTERS ARE VERY UNLIKABLE . IT DOESN'T REALLY WIN MY VOT
I Couldn't Stop Laughing	I remember when THE EXORCIST was first released in Britain , I was 7 years old at the time and living in Edinburgh and a neighbour called Ann Lyon was just back from the cinema telling my parents how the movie lived up to the hype and what a truly shocking , gut wrenching experience THE EXORCIST was . My parents went to see it a few days later ( In 1973 this was the ONLY movie people were talking about ) and their verdict was that it was a bloody stupid film unworthy of all the fuss . I don't know if that prejudiced my view in later life but I also found THE EXORCIST a bloody stupid film unworthy of the hype , but I will give it credit where it's due - It's also an extremely funny film too I congratulate everyone for this classic comedy , the tears of laughter ran down my cheeks watching it . A young girl called Regan is possessed by a demonic force that causes her skin to turn blue , turn her head 360 degrees , float in mid air , speak in a booming voice and spit out large amounts of chocolate fudge . I bet David Blaine is cursing his luck about being overlooked by Satan . This is funny enough but it's the words coming out of Regan's mouth that caused me to split my sides , you'll understand that I'm paraphrasing here " Go stick your toffee apple up his bottom you naughty priest " and " Your mother sucks toffee apples in hell " Be honest girls , does that second qoute seem like a fate worse than death ? I do concede that this is a well made movie but this only adds to the unintentional laughs as the cast give genuinely shocked expressions as the profanity keeps spilling out of the mouth of young Regan . This is what I describe as " THE EXORCIST factor " ie the more the cast and crew try and convince the audience that all this is sickeningly horrible the more laughably ludicrous it all becomes . That's why horror spoofs like REPOSSESSED an SCARY MOVIE 2 fail to out do THE EXORCIST as a comedyAs a footnote I mentioned that many people in Edinburgh saw this at their local cinemas as did a great many people in British cities in 1973 , but one exception was Glasgow where the local council banned the film from cinema chains in the city . Other films Glasgow city council have banned since then include THE LIFE OF BRIAN and ROMPER STOMPER
The More Thrills It Sets Up The More Silly It Becomes	I found BEAR ISLAND listed in today's page of the TV guide so popped onto this page to find out if it was any good or not . Obviously I also read the plot summary which told me Nazi gold could be the key to the mystery so right away I realised Nazis wanted to their hands on some gold . I'm not criticising anyone for letting me know this because it's my own fault for reading plot summaries on this site ! ! ! ! ! YES THERE'S SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! The problem is once you know Nazis are involved there's little mystery left as to who they are or their motives . Who are the Nazi agents ? I'm sort of guessing that it won't be Judith Rubin or Lechinski , not with their ethnic backgrounds . Lansing confesses later on that he was born in Germany but it's already established by this time that he's one of the good guys so it's not him and when someone says " I wish people would obey orders " it's just too obvious that they're a Nazi which doesn't leave much room for anymore red herrings . It should be pointed out for those of a pedantic nature that it's Neo-Nazis who are the bad guys The plot would have worked far better as a TEN LITTLE INDIANS type story but for some reason the movie plays out like a James Bond action thriller . I've not read the source novel but the narrative is totally ridiculous as we're treated to a fast paced action set piece every five minutes and apart from being silly they're often unnecessary to like the old geezer commandeering a helicopter to save the drowning hero ten minutes into the film . It also leaves massive plot holes like why do the hero and heroine make their way to the harbour on the slow moving snow mobiles when there's a couple of bigger , faster more powerful snow mobiles that they could have used ? That's so the Nazis can escape and pursue them on the journey and this lack of thinking on the part of the producers condemns this movie as a below par thriller
I'm Sure Its Original Title Was " Cliché " !	! ! ! ! ! OF COURSE THERE'S SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! I'm sure this project started off as a screen writing workshop on avoiding clichés in horror movies : Female protagonist - Check Bad things happen to drug takers - Check Heorine knocks out villain - Check Heroine doesn't notice villain recovering unconsciousness - Check Frame the sequence so we see recovered villain creep up behind heroine - Check Unfortunately it seems someone has sent this cliché list to a film studio instead of using it for class . Dear oh dear if only London transport was as regular as the clichés turning up here . In fact there's so many clichés and seen it all before moments that no one actually thought about going into detail as to what the eponymous creep is or how long he's been killing people on the underground . I'm led to believe it's the result of some human experiment and perhaps it's not until that night he decided to take his revenge out on humanity but all this is so vague as to be meaningless Not to be totally negative I doubt very much if the producers thought they'd be making a film that was going to sweep the Oscars that year and there's always a market for horror movies . Likewise I doubt if it cost too much produce and had one eye on the DVD market rather than cinema distribution and I will state that it's slightly better than 1972's DEATH LINE which also featured a murderous cannibal hiding in the London underground . it's just that when you think all the clichés have been used up in this film another cliché comes along to raise its ugly head
Some Serious Flaws	Does anyone remember that television series from the mid 1980s featuring the characters from WIND IN THE WILLOWS ? That's the series featuring fine actors like Michael Hordern and David Jason voicing the characters who are represented as puppets . It was a superb series according to my memory and this cynical reviewer would probably still sit down to watch it if it was on television today This live action version of WIND IN THE WILLOWS collapses on many levels more so if you've seen the aforementioned series . First of all the big name cast fail to resemble lovable fluffy animals in any way and it's very easy to forget why they're called Mole , Badger , Toad etc so instead of humanising animals ( A traditional concept in childrens fiction ) Terry Jones has done the opposite and animalised humans . It's very irritating the way the cast tend to mug for the audience at every opportunity which does gives the feeling the film is talking down to the child audience , and whose big bad idea was it to include songs ? This ruins the appearence of the story's villains - the weasels which totally contradicts story convention of always having the bad guys treated seriously . No matter what genre you're writing the bad guys must always be treated with respect . If the writer doesn't take the bad guys seriously there's no way the audience can either . Imagine a James Bond movie where the evil mad man who wants to take over the world is played by Jim Carrey doing his usual Jerry Lewis on acid spiel . That's how menacing the weasels are in this movie , a movie that wears out its welcome very quickly
It Started Off Well	THE SEVENTH SIGN has a great opening hook as the Israeli defence force come across a terrorist base . This is the type of hook that is a must when writing a script , it grabs the reader / audience and the introduction of David Bannon as he rents a room from Abby and Russell Quinnn telegraphs the point that this is a man who's not who he says he is . However after the great opening third I found the rest of the movie confusing and uninvolving with a large number of plotholes and isn't all that different from umpteen other supernatural thrillers that I've seen
What's The Plot ?	MILD SPOILER Made during Ridley Scott's career doldrum between THELMA AND LOUISE and GLADIATOR , WHITE SQUALL is a rather shapeless story . It first starts off as a sort of DEAD POET'S SOCIETY on the high seas then becomes a disaster movie where several characters die during a shipwreck and becomes a courtroom drama at the end . Three quarters of the film are dedicated to the rites of passage tale while only the last quarter involves the shipwreck and court case . Considering the title of the film you'd have thought the shipwreck would have made up the bulk of the film . WHITE SQUALL isn't a terrible film but it wasn't a good one either and it's difficult to have either anything good or bad to say about hence this bland review
Rather Lame Sci - Fi Fodder	I've never read JAWS by Peter Benchley but have of course seen the movie andJAWS is considered to be one of the few films that improves greatly onthe book . Much of this I'm told is to do with a large number of subplots being jettisoned in the adaptation , leaving only the main plot of a man eating shark and of the protagonists mission to kill it . One can't help thinking the producers of this movie should have done something similar The major problem is that much of the running time is taken up with a bunch of bad guys wanting to get their hands on a very expensive Greek opal . In many ways the story resembles another Benchley story THE DEEP which might not be a problem as such but when you've got a film called KRAKEN : TENTACLES OF THE DEEP then a prospective audience is expecting a giant squid to be the focus of the story rather than humans . The producers seem aware of this shoehorning a squid attack just to remind the audience there's a squid central to the plot when in fact it's the producers themselves who obviously need reminding As it's produced by Nu Image Films the production values are rather poor with the squid being a rather obvious CGI creation . Like nearly every film featuring a giant squid it makes a roaring sound ( Squids are mute ) and can grab people off the decks of ships ( Considered impossible by leading scientists ) and of course when someone gets devoured underwater there's a big bubble of blood rising to the surface . Not only that but biologists are all in their early twenties , have blonde hair and walk around in bikini tops thereby exposing their admirable mammary glands . One can't help thinking Nu Image Films and The Sci-Fi channel are in cahoots to get more guys to sign up to university science classes . I doubt however if anyone who worked on this film would be able to spell the word science
Seen It All Before	I've never understood the cross genre concept of mixing a horror movie into a war film . I did like THE KEEP mainly due to the art house flourishes ( One of the things people detested about Michael Mann's adaptation ) but have so far missed out on seeing THE BUNKER and DEATHWATCH . I guess the appeal to film makers is that it's easy to kick start a story of having a bunch of soldiers turn up at a deserted locale where they find a demonic force trying to kill them one by one which isn't a million miles away from the plot of say PREDATOR or DOG SOLDIERS . But when you stop to consider the horrors of war do we need supernatural elements to horrify an audience ? BELOW is somewhat different from the films mentioned above because it does somewhat lack a sense of time and space . The American submarine where the story is set could easily have been set on a spaceship in the future and to be honest the movie does feel very similar to EVENT HORIZON . There's little gore involved from director David Twohey which is a both a good and bad thing since he doesn't use the gimmick of explict violence to shock the audience but makes the film a bit too talky for its own goodBELOW can probably be summed up in thus - If you liked EVENT HORIZON you will like BELOW . If you thought DAS BOOT was terrifying without any supernatural elements you probably won't like BELOW
Poor FX And A Poor Script	! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! This movie was spoiled for me right at the very start with some laughably bad back projection , even though I was hypnotised by Annie Garrets cleavage I couldn't help noticing how fake it looked ( The rock face not the cleavage - Boy was that real ) which killed any potential tension because instead of watching a group of characters fighting for their lives I couldn't think of them as anything more than a bunch of actors pretending they're people in a life threatening situation Did I mention Annie's cleavage ? Good because it's worth mentioning twice . Unfortunately the action them moves to K2 . Did you know it's very cold up there ? You do ? Well that's a major bummer because Annie keeps her and the film's prize assets firmly underwraps in case of frostbite . Much of the film does obviously take place on location amongst rolling mountains unlike the fake mountains at the start of the movie but VERTICAL LIMIT's main failing from then on is its very lacklustre script which tries to be a high concept thriller with a low concept subplot featuring family loss , but there's too many plot holes in the former ( Why nitro ? ) and too much tedium in the latter to make this a memorable or even interesting film . If the story had been about Annie stuck up a mountain on a very hot day I would have no problem watching it over and over again
At Least It Didn't Take Itself Seriously	I've never seen an edition from TALES FROM THE CRYPT so I can only judge BORDELLO OF BLOOD by its own merits and I'm afraid I don't have much opinion one way or the other . It's a camp horror movie featuring a brothel that's a front for vampires and instantly reminded me of FROM DUSK TILL DAWN but is slightly more enjoyable . It doesn't take itself too seriously which works in its favour other wise I'd be pointing out plot holes like how come the cops haven't noticed that many of the town's male inhabitants have been going missing . I could have done without the sexual innuendo and wise cracks though " I think you'd better step outside " " No thanks I don't have time for a < Sexual act > " Not sure if I'd be watching the TV series on a regular basis after watching this feature length spin off
Didn't Knock Me Out	After a recap of the most unlikely world heavyweight boxing contest in history ( One fighter is American , one is Russian and both are white ) ROCKY V actually gets off to a good start as we're introduced to a fast talking opportunist Don King clone called George Washington Duke , and we then find out that Rocky and his family are going to be falling on hard times . I really had high hopes for the movie at this point since a Don King type exploiting boxers who are in dire financial straits is a very realistic plot However things start going awry for a cynical viewer since we're treated to dumb jokes : Knock knock Who's there ? Madam Madam who ? My damn foot got caught in the door again and an excess of honey coated sentiment . We're shown a flashback of Rocky remembering his mentor and trainer Mickey Goldmill and it's impossible to watch this sequence without grabbing for an insulin injection . It also shows up what a wooden actor Mr Stallone is . There's also other subplots that won't appeal to a more cynical audience like Rocky's son finding love amidst a tough school I will be honest and say that this sequel is far far better than ROCKY 4 which was basically an MTV video but did we really need a franchise involving a movie that deserved one sequel at most ?
Updating The Series Hasn't Improved It	In my review of PURE HELL OF ST TRINIANS I mentioned that the comedy is very much dated when watched today . I guess the idea with THE GREAT ST TRINIANS TRAIN ROBBERY was to update it to the 1960s : It references the great train robbery of 1964 ( Interesting to note the connection with THUNDERBALL ) , it mentions " a new Labour government correcting the mismangement of 13 years of Tory misrule " and the movie is shot in colour with a new title tune . However despite these attempts to make it accessible to a cinema audience in 1966 ( Who would have gone to the cinema to watch a black and white movie ? ) this film suffers from the other failings of the series - it's badly plotted with characters and situations coming and going with little focus . like the other movies featuring the pupils from hell there is little screen time given to the eponymous girl pupils who seem to be there as a plot device more than anything else and even in 1966 native audiences would have probably found the parochial humour too British when compared to American financed Brit productions like DR NO , ZULU and ALFIE thereby dating this movie as soon as it came out
Disturbing - And Not In A Good Way	I've only seen FIRESTARTER once and that was about 18 months ago on the Sci-fi channel . It's mainly a forgettable movie with a plot that's been reused a few times on THE X-FILES . It wasn't until I was flicking through this site killing time that I remembered seeing it and would have totally forgotten seeing the movie in the first place if it wasn't for the fact that this movie is disturbing and I don't mean that in a good way ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The story revolves around Andrew Mcgee and his daughter Charlene who are on the run from government spooks who are after Charlene because she has telekinetic abilities to make things combust . It's a simple plot but there's two elements to the story that disturbed me . One is the introduction of the main villain John Rainbird ( The McGees have been captured by the spooks at this point ) who in order to find out the secret of Charlene's powers tries to gain her confidence . What I found so disgusting about this is that it's like watching how a paedophile may manipulate a victim , it really made my skin crawl and considering Rainbird states he'll personally kill young Charlene after he's " Got what he's wanted " the allusion to child molesting and child murder is complete . Okay I accept that the audience detesting Rainbird and wanting him to be cruelly killed is accepted as part of the drama but what I don't accept is the number of people killed by the Mcgees who are just doing their job . This was the second reason I disliked the movie intensely , in several scenes government officials are burned to death after trying to arrest the Mcgees . Okay the McGees could claim self defence like the action sequence at the end where they flame the government base but if you heard on the news today that several government law enforcers were killed in the line of duty after trying to arrest suspected terrorists / criminals where would your sympathy lie ? Would it be the with the law enforcers or the suspected terrorists / criminals ? These scenes of fiery deaths are even more disturbing watching Charlene being played by the angelic child actress Drew BarrymoreOne other thing I can recall about FIRESTARTER is that the cast are wasted . Louise Fletcher and George C Scott both won Oscars in the 1970s ( Okay Scott turned his down but you know what I mean ) while there's some classy support from character actors like Martin Sheen and Freddie Jones but ultimately I found myself asking what are these actors doing in such a low brow movie ? In fact FIRESTARTER is so bad I started wondering why Heather Locklear agreed to appear in it
Hardly A Special Story	After Catherine Tate appeared in the final episode of Doomsday fandom went in to meltdown as to her casting and led to the first murmurings that Russell T Davies should step down as executive producer . These rumblings were ridiculous and I was going to wait until after I saw her in the role of Donna Noble before passing judgment . After seeing her I thought Tate was okay in the role but The Runaway Bride was slightly less than an okay story One weakness is the rather univolving plot . It's one of those stories in which there's a lot of running around but not much else . There's also bits that didn't seem thought through very well such as the return of the killer santas ( Were they included just to show that it was a Christmas special ? ) or having the villain washed down a plug hole . As for the villain herself Sarah Parish was absolutely terrible and her performance ranks alongside those seen in the Colin Baker and Sylvester McCoy eras . Why do normally capable thespians snarl and cackle like some pantomime dames in these type of roles ? Hopefully the little ones enjoyed this story than more critical adult fans of the show
Very Silly	Anyone remember Tom Berenger ? He was quite a prolific actor in the late 1980s fresh from his success as the bad guy in PLATOON , and was in my humble opinion one of the more convincing tough actors of that era , but for some inexplicable reason soon find himself starring in more and more low budget , low quality projects . Worse he now finds himself playing supporting roles in low budget , low quality straight to video projectsTHE SUBSTITUTE was made when Berenger's career was in free fall and as you'd expect it's hardly impressive material . Some of my disappointment might be down to how the story plays out , seeing as it's about a former merc becoming a teacher in an inner city ghetto school in Miami I was expecting something along the lines of DANGEROUS MINDS , but this movie plays out totally different . In many ways it's like a revenge thriller produced by Cannon from the 1980s with some absolutely ridiculous plot twists and bizarre scenes which is unforgivable because THE SUBSTITUTE is a good film in parts , namely when Mr Smith talks about his experiences in ' Nam . This would have worked far , far better as a drama rather than a thriller
A Guilty Pleasure	Yeah fair enough , this is reckoned to be the worst disaster movie ever . Agreed there's some really terrible acting involved with Michael Caine either OTT or totally wooden from scene to scene with the kid playing Paul giving a " I'm really terrified because I'm waving my head from side to side and saying no , no , no an awful lot " acting style . That said I do have a soft spot for THE SWARM because it is rather enjoyable due to the lapses in logic and science , and who can fail to be emoured by the laughable dialogue like " We've been losing the war against the insects for 15 years but I'd never thought it'd be the bees - They've always been our friends " or " Has this nuclear power plant made any provisions against killer bees " ? Don't take it so seriously and you might just enjoy it
Too Cliched	A sequel to BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI seems like a bad idea but RETURN FROM THE RIVER KWAI is unrelated to the David Lean classic apart from the title . This film does unlike the other Kwai film give us a realistic portrayal of Japanese P . O . W camps with amputations carried out on fully conscious patients and summary executions but that's all it has in it's favour . The characters are stereotypes with the British all stiff upper lipped while the Aussies call everyone " Mate " and say " Ps off " a lot
Perhaps The Most Typical Bruckheimer Production	You can just imagine Jerry Bruckheimer sitting at the studio offices in a totally disinterested mood as his colleagues discuss the pre planning stages of TOP GUN . Dismissing anything that vaguely resembles a good idea Jerry turns to them and says " Forget about complicated plots and great stories . Hire me a couple of hunky actors with great teeth and write me a couple of songs for the soundtrack " and his colleagues comply Personally speaking the above attitude seems kind of lousy if you want to make a good film but it's logical if you want to make a successful one . Tom Cruise and Val Kilmer , if the teenage girls don't rush out to the cinema to see either of these guys sure as hell every dentist in the country will , so right away you've got a ready made audience . Add to that lots of macho big boys toys ( In this case fighter jets ) which will appeal to a teenage male audience and you've got an even bigger ready made audience . Plus you can release a soundtrack which means more money and advertising for the movieYes indeed TOP GUN was a mega success at the cinema which proves Jerry Bruckheimer knows his stuff . However as many , many people have noted there's a big difference between a GOOD movie and a SUCCESSFUL movie and watching TOP GUN after almost 20 years after it came out it comes across as being shallow , thread bare and rather jingoistic . From the very first scene of fighter aircraft flying off the carrier to the closing credits director Tony Scott seems to be making something that's a cross between a recruiting film for the US Navy and a music video , there's romance for the girls , a few dog fight for the boys but much of it seems aimed for the next MTV slot . There's not a lot here that will challenge the mindI also couldn't noticing the flag waving either , in just about every scene a character proudly boasts that " The United States has the best fighter pilots in the world " . I'm not dissing anyone across the pond who's served their country but the undisputed kings of the sky are the Israeli airforce who manged to destroy 240 Egyptian fighters in one single day during the 1967 six day war . They also shot down 38 Syrian aircraft in dogfights , again in a single day , in June 1982 . The Israelis have no equals when it comes to fighter pilots . I can understand Hollywood getting all nationalistic since they had such a right wing president ( A former Hollywood actor no less ) at the time but the " God bless the United States - we're the best at everything we do " attitude does grate very quickly especially to non Americans and a later Bruckheimer production PEARL HARBOR drowned in its patriotic fervor with an American fighter pilot almost winning The Battle Of Britain single handed A lot of people flocked to the cinema when it was first released and a lot of people bought the soundtrack too , but as a film it is rather shallow , uninvolving and if you can't remember the 1980s then you might be ever so puzzled why this film made so much money . If truth be told I'm slightly puzzled myself and I suggest you go out of your way to watch AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN which is a very similar movie but a far better one For a film that strangely negates the skill of the Israeli airforce I couldn't help noticing that this movie was inspired by an article written by Ehud Yonay . I've not checked up on this guy's background but wouldn't Ehud Yonay be an Israeli name ?
There's No Honour Amongst Thieves . . . .	. . . . Is what DON'T SAY A WORD screamed at me in the opening heist sequence . This is very true to life , thieves stab each other in the back and once they're caught it's a race to turn stool pigeon and make a deal with the DA . However after the opening robbery we're treated to the domestic life of hero shrink Nathan Conrad . Cheer as Nathan tucks his daughter into bed , weep with awe as Nathan gives his wife a blanket bath , gasp in amazement as Nathan shows the audience his culinary skills in the kitchen , but don't worry the story does improve when Mr Bean and the bad boys reappear in the story MILD SPOILERS As said the story does pick up here but your attention is drawn to some gaping plot holes . The bad guys have set up CCTV cameras in Nathan's home and have also bugged a patient's room at the local psychiatric hospital . Actually this is later explained so they're not necessarily plot holes but your attention is drawn to these details at the time so they certainly play out as holes in the plot . You also have to suspend your belief that the Bean boys can break into Nathan's flat and kidnap his daughter without Mr & Mrs Conrad noticing anything or hearing anything , but there is a massive gap in logic at the climax of the movie . The bad guys need a number from Elisabeth a patient of Nathan's and it transpires that Elisabeth is the daughter of the robber who ripped off the gang at the start of the movie and the number they're after is the number of a grave where both her father and a jewel is hidden . We're shown via flash back the gang catching up with the father killing him and then being arrested , and it's after this that Elisabeth puts the jewel hidden inside her dolly into her father's grave . Now if Elisabeth did this AFTER the gang had been arrested how would the bad guys know the number is related to a grave when they've all been in custody before , during and after the burial ? Doesn't make sense does it ? DON'T SAY A WORD is a disappointment mainly down to the run of the mill script which is a shame because a film with Michael Douglas playing a good guy and Sean Bean a bad guy should be a sure fire hit . Douglas and Bean and the rest of the cast do try to rise above the material but there's not much material to rise above in the first place
Running On Empty	It's obvious that by 1988 the Vietnam war film had nothing more to say . From the pondering self pity of THE DEER HUNTER to the cruel humour of FULL METAL JACKET the sub genre had burnt itself out in a similar manner as napalm had burnt out the jungles of South East Asia . SAIGON ( As it's known in Britain ) doesn't make any pretence at bringing anything new to Hollywood's love affair to the ' Nam and tells us nothing we didn't already know : War is hell - Check The South Vietnamese regime wasn't worth the life of one GI - CheckAll US colonels are crazy - Check SAIGON doesn't really feel more than a gimmick film , the gimmick being that it's a murder mystery set during the war in Vietnam . I should also point that the murder plot is very unconvincing , especially so in the last ten minutes where the murderer is revealed and it becomes a race against time to save his victim . If you want to see either Willam Defoe or Scott Glenn in a movie masterpiece rent PLATOON or APOCALYPSE NOW instead
What Terrible Acting	There's a few things that caused me to dislike this film , namely that director John Guillerman fails to bring any excitement or other worldliness to " Kong Island " , compare the locations used here which resemble Hawaii ( You'll never guess where the location filming took place ) with the original movie . Oh and the man dressed up as a giant ape looks exactly like a man dressed up in a monkey suit . It must have hard for the cast to take King Kong seriously . In fact ' s my main criticism about this remake , it's very poorly acted . Jeff Bridges has always been good at playing cocky jack the lad types in films , but here he has all the charisma and charm of a tree . Jessica Lange is okay at standing around playing Dwan the supermodel but as soon as acting talent is required like showing fear or any other type of emotion she fails . Strange that Lange and Bridges continued to work in Hollywood with great acclaim after their performances here because they are fairly awful . I guess they were treating the film with the respect it deserved . Hopefully Peter Jackson will show Hollywood how to do a remake
Highly Unlikely Sports Drama	Perhaps the above summary isn't really a criticism since ESCAPE TO VICTORY isn't a film that is to be taken seriously . Well I hope it isn't because to have the then 48 year old Michael Caine to be playing a English international footballer who was world famous in the 30s must have meant he was at the height of his footballing skill when he was in his late thirties ! And we have Pele the greatest football player ever as the inmate of a prisoner of war camp during the second world war . Just one problem though , Pele is a black man ! Did the Germans ever take a single black man prisoner during the second world war ? Write in if anyone knows . Trivia note : The English football supporters have their own orchestra which constantly plays the theme tune to the classic Michael Caine caper movie THE ITALIAN JOB , not that this ever improves the team's performance .
Like A Brian DePalma Movie	Ken Russell directed this weird ( Not very ) erotic thriller and if I hadn't known that I would have staked my life that the director was Brian DePalma . Absolutely everything about CRIMES OF PASSION screams DePalma , from the gaudy cinematography that is lit a little too brightly , to the domestic storyline that turns into a stalk and slash plot , to even the title this screams " Depalma , DePalma , Depalma " Unfortunately since Brian DePalma is increasingly seen as a poor mans Hitchcock over the years Russell should have tried emulating a style of his own . Sure an erotic thriller in the style of TOMMY or BILLION DOLLAR BRAIN would have been bizarre with a capital B but at least it would have been a unique cinematic experience . Stories about prostitutes living a dangerous double life and being stalked by a religious maniac were an all too common sight in the 1980s video market . Oh and Anthony Perkins plays the same role he played in almost every movie he made in the 1980s . Yawn The only thing of any real note to CRIMES OF PASSION is the controversy it caused . I guess the studio were the happiest people to hear this since no publicity is bad publicity , but as for the controversial sex scenes . . . What controversial sex scenes ? There aren't any and the only controversy I can think of is of China Blue dominating an on duty policeman with a truncheon . Needless to say he didn't come quietly HA HA HA HA HA HA HA H
I Was Bored Because . . .	. . . There's two things ( Amongst others ) I find boring . One is the sport of golf where boring ( OMG are golfers boring ) men with absolutely no dress sense strut around whacking a ball into a hole a few hundred yards away . The second is a Kevin Costner performance . Can there be a less charismatic leading man from the last 20 years ? A commie outlaw in merry olde England , a man living amongst red indians , a man investigating the murder of a president , a man sailing the oceans in search of land - No matter what role he plays I have to struggle to stay awake when he's on screen . I yawned all the way through this due to the plot and the leading man , and I've had to take two long naps while writing this review , that's the effect TIN CUP had on me The movie isn't helped by the screenplay that revolves around Costner ( I can't remember his character's name because I didn't think I was watching a character be played out on screen - I was watching Kevin Costner playing himself yet again ) getting ready for a golf tournament while trying to juggle a relationship . So right away you know that the climax takes place at a make or break tournament where he either wins or loses the tournament and he wins or loses the gal , that's if anyone cares in the first place and I know I didn't . In the meantime we have to suffer Kev wearing sun shades , smiling , having a beer and hear him utter a rude word or two . I think he might have tried to sing but I was struggling to stay awake at this pointIf you're an addict of either golf or Kevin Costner you'll enjoy this movie . If you're a fan of both then you must be the saddest person on Earth , and if you're a fan of neither then only watch this if you can't sleepZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ
Rather Disappointing	I'm a massive fan of prison dramas which is reflected in OZ being my all time favourite American TV show . I guess the appeal lies in a type of smug voyeurism of wanting to see bad things happen to bad mens ' bottoms , but I found Don Siegel's RIOT IN CELL BLOCK 11 to be rather disappointing . Okay I knew since it was made in 1954 it would be devoid of bad language , graphic shankings and gang rape but even so it's a rather weak film compared to prison portrayal in earlier movies like EACH DAWN I DIE and WHITE HEAT . The problem lies in the preachy tone of the movie with riot leader Dunn being something of a prison reformer . Yeah that sounds ridiculous since he's a violent anti hero rather than some limp wristed tree hugging do gooder on a salary , but that's what he is in essence , he wants to see prisoners rehabilitated to rejoin society rather than being made to suffer . There's also a problem of making a B movie with such radical themes ( Quite ironic that Siegel would later make DIRTY HARRY where the only good criminal is a dead one ) and that is the cast isn't very good with Emile Meyer as the warder being especially irritating in his performance . like i said a disappointing movie
I'm Too Old For This	I guess being born 36 years ago I'm too old to enjoy THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS by about . . . . oh twenty years ? It would be flippant to criticise something that was produced solely for MTV addicts so I won't mention that Rob Cohen's direction is just a feature length music video where the chicks are too fit to be true or that when someone walks around they do so in sexy slo mo , or that the soundtrack is intrusive , or that the cars are too fast to be realistic or that the multi ethnic problems of street culture are ignored . In fact that is a valid criticism as the bloods , crips , underclass and middle class students all get together and no one seems to have a culture issue . Vin Diesel is another valid criticism . Am I alone in thinking that he's the only leading man in film history who rivals Steven Segal as most unconvincing actor ever ? Oh and I have never ever seen so much product placement in my life . Aren't there any laws against this sort of thing ? By a very strange irony I have a FAST AND FURIOUS T-shirt . Ironic in the sense that I wore an item of clothing for a film whose existance only seems to involve advertising products
I Wonder How Many Complaints It Got ?	ALL FOR LOVE ( as it titled when it was broadcast at the weekend ) is a romantic period drama featuring Captain Saint Ives a French officer in Napoleon's army who is captured by the British and imprisoned in Scotland where he meets and falls in love with a young maiden who visits the prison . There's also a storyline involving a murder . I will be honest and confess that I wasn't too taken by the movie since I'm not much of a fan of period dramas and the screenplay feels somewhat episodic but I will say that this is well acted by everyone involved and it's got a good cast that features Miranda Richardson , Anna Friel , Richard E Grant , Michael Gough and Jason Isaacs . The costume design as you can expect is also excellent I'll be very surprised if this movie doesn't get any complaints after being broadcast on BBC2 at teatime . Captain Saint Ives lies in bed with a prostitute where a nipple is fully exposed and there's a scene of French prisoners bathing that includes full frontal male nudity not to mention a murder scene where blood is clearly seen . You really do have to worry if BBC schedulers have any type of clue as to what they're doing
THE NAKED GUN was better	I loved THE NAKED GUN films but waited till REPOSSESSED turned up on television before seeing it . A lot of people were conned in the 1990s by companies tricking people into thinking they'd be watching something similar to THE NAKED GUN by casting Leslie Nielson and releasing the video cover as something similar in style to THE NAKED GUN releases . DRACULA DEAD AND LOVING IT and REPOSSESSED both did this but don't be fooled because very few if any of the production team who worked on the classic comedy trilogy worked on this movie or the awful DEAD AND LOVING IT REPOSSESSED is a very hit and miss film with little in the way of memorable gags . The jokes that do work best are the groan inducing ones similar to what you'd find in THE NAKED GUN , jokes like " Young lady pull your dress down " and " Are you getting off ? " . Mind you I will give this film credit for being funnier than SCARY MOVIE 2 but neither movie is as funny as THE EXORCIST
Didn't Joe Eszterhas Write A Similar Script ?	I'm the sort of guy who stays behind to read the closing credits of a movie . I'm also the sort of guy who makes a note of who the producer , director and screenwriter is . I guess that's the difference between the average IMDb user and the average movie watcher . The movie watcher is only interested in the genre of the movie and who stars in it and very little else . Being a regular contributor to this site means I notice names average movie watcher has little interest in . The downside to this is that a name appearing on the credits can prejudice my view of a film Take JADE for instance which was written by Joe Eszterhas . Did my knowledge of Eszterhas mean that I think this movie is very similar in tone to BASIC INSTINCT whereas it's not and any comparison lies in my own biased knowledge of the screenwriter , or is JADE genuinely similar to BASIC INSTINCT ? Certainly this is a movie that seems to have been produced with the same market trend for erotic thrillers that were being made at the time , with the worst one being that one with Madonna and Willem Defoe The plot revolves around a murder and a senior DA is brought in and the main suspect is a femme fatale with dubious sexual tastes . Cue lots of sexual intrigue , sleazy deviants and plot twists , few of which are convincing . And being the sort of guy who makes notes of who the director is I couldn't help noticing that William Friedkin is the guy who made THE FRENCH CONNECTION a film famous for a car chase . We get to see a car chase here which ends in the death of several million Chinese . If someone is thinking of doing a bio-pic on Chairman Mao they could do worse than hire Friedkin as the director ! I will say a couple of good things about JADE . The first is that Linda Fiorentino is very well cast as Trina Gavin who just oozes an understated smouldering sexuality , she's far better than than Sharon Stone in BASIC INSTINCT and a million miles better than Madonna in BODY OF EVIDENCE . Secondly I just love the very haunting quasi Celtic song The Mystic's Dream by Lorenna McKennitt . But apart from that JADE isn't really worth going out of your way to see
Man Brags About Sex Life	This story is about an English couple , Nigel and Fiona Dobson on a cruise ship where they meet a crippled American called Oscar who tells them of his relationship with the love of his life a young French woman called Mimi Is there anything less compelling than someone discussing their sex life ? I know a lot of people detest having to look at their friends holiday picture snaps but having to listen to other peoples sex lives really take the biscuit and who thought this would have been a good idea for a movie ? I guess since the director is Polanski many people watched this for voyeuristic reasons to see if it explains Polanski's psyche but it's a fairly dire uninvolving movie with unsympathetic characters , I mean we've got Mimi who is what the Brits would call " A bit of a slapper " going out with someone old enough to be her father . Did I mention Roman Polanski is the director ? And after losing Mimi Oscar decides to seduce women he meets at the supermarket . Did I mention the characters are unsympathetic ? Oh and Oscar gets back with Mimi after he's been crippled and she embarks on an affair with a dancer . Did I mention she's a bit of a slapper ? The ending is rather depressing and as the credits roll you feel that the movie has been a waste of time
Rather Simple Story With Effective Moments	THE PURPLE PLAIN is a British war film which means it's rather understated when compared to its American counterparts . There's not a massive budget involved which means little in the way of spectacle and if truth be told the special effects involving a RAF fighter-bomber coming under attack from Japanese flak is somewhat unconvincing . It also contains a few too many stiff upper lipped chaps I do give credit to the movie for bringing some type of psycological thought to the story though . The movie revolves around Canadian RAF pilot Squadron Leader Bill Forrester who is a suprisingly complex character for this type of movie . Forrester is a man who knows what grief is and it threatens to tear him apart . However the complexities and characteristics of Forrester soon become pushed into the background as the story concentrates on the adventure antics of the hero trying to escape from behind enemy linesTHE PURPLE PLAIN isn't a movie that's dated well . No doubt when it was released in the mid 1950s audiences ( Especially those who crewed an aircraft or fought in the Far East ) could relate to it more but it seems slightly cliched now . But like I said it does try to be a character study instead of a straight forward war movie and it does contain some effective moments
Badly Dated And Plot less	I can't claim to be an expert on THE ST TRINIAN series . I have some vague notion that it's about some hellcat girl pupils which in today's political climate would probably never been considered as a film seriesStrangely enough the film starts with a liberal agenda after the pupils have burnt down their school and are shown compassion , but at this point the film deviates from what you'd expect . The title is THE PURE HELL OF ST TRINIANS right ? so why does the film then revolve around Flash Harry and a couple of other characters being stuck on a desert island with the naughty schoolgirls absent for most of the narrative . It's also difficult to work out what the plot is since the movie feels rather episodic . It is interesting to see foreign office types going to a city called Bahgdad with some of the comedy coming out of this situation but this makes the film feel even more dated than it already is No doubt made for a British commercial market THE PURE HELL OF ST TRINIAN is something of a reminder of more innocent times but that's probably its only reason to watch as entertainment in 2005 . Compare this with the CARRY ON films of the early 1960s and see what series has aged better
Moving Towards The End Of Hammer	By 1971 it was becoming more and more obvious that Hammer film studios were on the way out . HANDS OF THE RIPPER is a case in point where even the idea smacks of desperation - The spirit of Jack The Ripper posses his own daughter ! Yeah okay no one was expecting a documentary but this plot seems to be scraping the bottom of the barrel for stupid premise and you do find yourself questioning why on earth the producers brought Jack The Ripper into the story . Was this to give the movie a snappy title ? The production values are unimpressive and the cinematography gives the whole movie a cheap TVM feel but you know you're not going to be watching a classic Hammer horror as soon as the title starts because the music is laughably inappropriate . I think the composer was trying to make the theme tune haunting and touching but the music resembles something out of a soppy romantic movie . I will give the cast some credit as they do take their roles seriously in what's a far from serious movie I didn't enjoy this film much and it instantly reminded me of the Phantom Raspberry Blower Of London Town from The Two Ronnies which I'd been laughing at in the weeks before I saw this
Who Was This Marketed For ?	MONKEYBONE is a movie with a bizarre title ( I thought perhaps this might have been a sequel to Michael Jackson's MOONWALKER ! ) which would crop up quite often on Sky Movies . Strangely it would usually be broadcast about 10pm at night and after finally seeing the movie I'm still perplexed as to what audience the movie was made for since I could imagine this would have appealed for a family audience . Okay the basic premise is rather dark with Stu falling into a coma but you can imagine children would have enjoyed this when the cartoonist finds himself in a dimension surrounded by his creations : " Mommy , I know why she's called Kitty because she's really a cat . Mommy look at all these funny cartoon people " But as the story continues you find yourself questioning its suitability to a family audience " Mommy you can see the naked man's bottom . Mommy why is the man having his insides taken out ? Mommy why are you taking my hand and leading me out of the cinema ? " The problem with this surreal comedy is that it's too surreal and won't appeal to anyone very much . Both adults and children will find the content just a little too crazy to appeal to both camps . Whatever MONKEYBONE is trying to be it's not a family film
Enjoyable For All The Wrong Reasons	I heard that Tiger Woods got his name after his father's life was saved by a comrade in ' Nam . This led to visions of the heroic cliche of someone running onto the battlefield slinging a wounded buddy over their shoulder and dashing hundreds of metres dodging machine gun fire and exploding shells . According to this biopic Col Earl Woods were sitting in a living room disguised as the jungles of South East Asia where a snake popped into view . It wasn't just any type of snake , no siree , it was one of those ones you use as a draught excluder . Thankfully someone saves Earl's life by shooting the head off the draft excluder thereby meaning we have a story to tell . In the next scene we're shown a general taking Earl into his office gives him a cigar and we're treated to some top class dialogue " Hey Colonel you've done a couple of tours in country . It's about time we got you behind a desk " " No thanks sir , I'm an infantryman at heart " Not even John Wayne could have come out with such modesty and considering Earl spent the opening sequence dressed in a green beret uniform you have to consider why he considers himself a mere infantryman ? In fact you have to consider if the screenwriters knowledge of Vietnam extends beyond watching THE GREEN BERETS over and over again As you may have noticed no one who has commentated on this movie actually thinks much of it as a bio-pic and some people don't think much of it as entertainment either but I disagree with the second point , it is entertaining but not the way the producers envisaged . I mean we're not shown any scenes of Tiger throwing tantrums where specatators cough at the wrong moment or a photo journalist gets into Tigers line of view . We're not shown any of Tiger's obvious prima donna attitude or the fact when he looses another tournament it's always someone elses fault . Watching this bio-pic on the Tiger is like watching the " Springtime For Hitler " sequences from THE PRODUCERS thinking it's a documentary on the second world war
Annoying Little Man In An Annoying Little Film	There's an early scene in ARTHUR 2 ON THE ROCKS that sums up this movie . It's the scene where Arthur taps on a fellow millionaires car window to be told " You're an annoying little man " . Couldn't have said it better myself sir . Annoying , that's the word and that's the whole film - Annoying Some people may say that's the whole point of Arthur Bach , he's supposed to be annoying and I'm not disputing any of this , my beef is not the way that he's written but by the irritating manner he's played by Dudley Moore who also executively produced ( Usually the sign of a bad movie when the executive producer and star are the same person ) this unentertaining sequel . Moore plays Arthur to the hilt and goes way over the top and never missing an opportunity to tell the audience that this guy's a drunk who thinks he's funny , and there's nothing less funny than someone who thinks he is . Portraying a drunken character is never easy at the best of times and Moore totally fails in his attempts He's not helped by the script though which has one of those premises that has a good idea but doesn't seem to be well developed at all : Arthur and his wife are trying to adopt a baby after falling upon hard times so Arthur must stop drinking and get a job . It's the kind of idea that personifies good drama of the main protagonist being split between need and desire ie Arthur must needs to stop drinking in order to achieve a better life but he desires to carry on drinking . Unfortunately the drama never really surfaces and the audience are mistreated to numerous scenes of Arthur telling unfunny jokes to the people he meets which doesn't make for a good film
Another Crap TVM	Another TVM that's a waste of time . The plot revolves around a ballsy police captain - And yes she's a woman - trying to weed out poor practice and corruption in her department . Apart from the usual twee faults of a TVM production there were several things that irritated me about this film . 1 ) Suzanne Pleshettes's performance . If you have the misfortune of seeing ALONE IN THE NEON JUNGLE check out the way Pleshette is unable to keep her head still . It really is distracting the way she shakes or nods her head while speaking . 2 ) Despite being set in 1988 everyone wears clothes from different eras . We see people ( Pimps I take it ) walking about dressed like John Travolta in SNF , punks even though they died out a few years before , and bikers who look like they're straight out of a early 70s road movie3 ) The hookers in this all wear tights ( Pantyhose I think they're called in America ) but I'm led to believe most hookers have sex with their clients in the back of their car so are tights a practical item of clothing for a streetwalking working girl ? And it just shows what poor entertainment this film is when I find myself asking an abstract question like thatOh and ALONE IN THE NEON JUNGLE also features one of the most incomprehensible lines I've ever heard . When trying to break a corrupt cop the heroine says " Do you know what they do to cops in prison ? They rape you by throwing you from the top tier " Can someone send me a private message telling me what the hell getting raped by being thrown from the top tier is ? Oh and despite cops getting blown away in Pittsburgh prostitution and burglary seem to be the only crimes the police department worry about
Billy Angel	I almost made a fool of myself when I was going to start this review by saying " This movie reminded me of BILLY ELLIOT " but then I looked up the resume of screenwriter Lee Hall only to find out that he was the guy who wrote BILLY ELLIOT so it's Mr Hall who's making a fool of himself not me Am I being a bit cruel on him ? No because Lee has something most other aspiring screenwriters from Britain don't have - He has his foot in the door , he has previously written a successful British movie that won awards and made money at the box office and what does he do next ? He gives the audience more of the same Young Jimmy Spud lives on some kitchen sink estate . He is bullied at school and no one loves him . The only thing keeping him going is that he has aspirations to be a ballet dancer . No actually he has aspirations to be an angel but considering his household he may as well be a ballet dancer . He has a macho waster of a father who thinks " Ballet dancers are a bunch of poofs while his granddad says " Ballet dancers are as tough as any man you could meet . I remember seeing the Bolshoi ballet . . . " Yup Ballet is a main talking point on a run down British council estate those days - NOT . Come to think of it neither is left wing politics which seems to be the sole preserve of middle class do gooders who live in nice big houses , so right away everything about this set up feels ridiculously false Another major criticism is that this is a film that has no clue who it's trying to appeal to . I have often criticised Channel 4 for broadcasting movies at totally inappropriate times ( THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT at 6 am for example ) but they showed this at 2 am and for once they've got it spot on . Considering the story involves politics , ballet dancing ( Gawd I hate it ) lung cancer and poverty there's no way this can be deemed suitable for a family audience but since the main protagonist is an 11 year old child and features angels and ballet dancers ( Don't blame me if I seem obsessed with the subject - there was no need to refer to them ) there's not much here for an intelligent adult audience either . Of course if Lee Hall had been told at the script development stage by the producers that he should write a story featuring a schoolboy and an angel and had flatly refused saying that he wanted to write about other themes and stories then I will apologise but throughout the movie you do get the feeling that once the film was completed it was going to be marketed to the exact same audience who enjoyed BILLY ELLIOT
Take Out Jane Russell And You're Left With A Crap Movie	OMG has there been a movie icon hotter than Jane Russell in THE OUTLAW ? I don't think so either . Her smouldering sexuality is the yardstick in which to judge all woman on Earth and the likes of Monroe are second best when compared to this definitive sex goddess . And to think some people describe the likes of Jay-Lo or Abi Titmuss as the most beautiful woman who has ever lived Unfortunately Ms Russell is the only thing THE OUTLAW is remembered for , which is by no means a bad thing since this is an absolutely terrible movie . From the opening scene featuring a sheriff who gives a performance that resembles a circus clown giving a portrayal of a homo-erotic wet dream to the final credits this movie is an ordeal to sit through . It's badly directed with tons of very poor acting and ridiculous back projection and is so factually incorrect as to be laughable . Did I say it was laughable ? Maybe that's why the musical score has a comedy soundtrack complete with a WAH WAH WAH WAH sound that belongs in a three stooges feature ? I would have happily given THE OUTLAW but because of the presence of Russell we're treated to something of a movie landmark - We're treated to on screen sex . Billy The Kid ravishes Rio Mcdonald in a hay loft 30 years before Clint Eastwood did an identical scene in HIGH PLAINS DRIFTER and in a later scene Rio asks Billy if he'll look at her while he does it , and the audience is left in no doubt what " It " is . Boy this must have caused people to drop dead in their seats on its initial release . Despite the controversy it's still an awful movie though
Dreary Brit Flick	This is the sort of movie that the deluded British film industry loves and the average British film goer hates - A low concept drama about a woman trying to find her birth mother . It'd be a miracle if you could fill a telephone box with this premise never mind a cinema . There is of course an argument that the plot is both real and sensible , especially if you compare it with a plot about humans , hobbits , elves and dwarfs going on a dangerous quest and fighting massed armies of goblins , but be brutally honest , what film would you prefer to watch ? Mike Leigh directed the brilliant classic BBC teleplay ABIGAIL'S PARTY , but I'm afraid that's what he is - a TV director . SECRETS AND LIES is directed in a rather flat static way with extremely variable performances . As always Brenda Blethyn is very good , Marianne Jean Baptiste is average at best as is Timothy Spall but Phyllis Logan is terrible , notice how she speaks one line with a northern regional English accent then speaks a couple of more lines in a broad Scottish accent ? What , you noticed ? Strange how the director didn't . Maybe he fell asleep while making this . I know I fell asleep watching it
Camp B Horror Movie	One wonders what the producers were thinking of when they set up the premise of " Mosquitos become infected by sucking the blood of an alien crew who have crashed in to the Deep South causing them to grow " . If you're gonna have aliens in a movie then surely giant mutating mosquitos are unnecessary to the plot ? Likewise why introduce aliens if they're just going to kick start the plot ? Why just not use a chemical leak ? The latter point draws to your attention that this is a very retro type of horror movie with giant insects killing people that we'd often see in the 1950s . Perhaps that's why the aliens were needed ? so that the audience would be made aware that it's not really a film that should be taken seriously and is in fact camp B movie nonsense The characters are all clichéd stereotypes such as hunky and courageous male lead , nice girl establishment heroine , noble ethnic minority figure , nasty redneck criminal , comedy character with nearly everyone else marked down as red shirt who's just there to be killed . It's a somewhat cheesy , perhaps too cheesy to be a total success as this type of undemanding film and it is very predictable but it's hardly the worst film I've seen over the last few weeks on the Zone Horror channel and the producers and the rest of the crowd should feel a sense of pride with that
Very Dumb	Despite being a very silly film I did think the original CANNONBALL RUN did have several amusing moments . Unfortunately this sequel takes all the bad points of the original and modifies aspects of its own that make it a far lesser film One aspect is the whole feel of the movie . The original was produced as a straightforward road movie similar to THE GUMBALL RALLY whilst here we see post referential lines and parodies of other movies like THE GODFATHER and SOME LIKE IT HOT which makes it resemble something more akin to HOT SHOTS and Repossessed while still retaining bits that are almost identical to the first one . For instance did we really need another set piece battle involving Jackie Chan and a bunch of bikers ? CANNONBALL RUN 2 does have a very funny scene where a bogus nun whispers into Dean Martin's ear who gives a shocked expression . He turns to Sammy Davis Jnr and whispers what was said . Sammy's jaw drops . " You are sick " . I genuinely thought that was amusing . Oh and we get the final silver screen appearance of old blue eyes though strangely I couldn't help thinking that someone edited this via another film . Perhaps Joe Pesci might consider that this wasn't a fitting swan song for Sinatra and he might do another film after LETHAL WEAPON 4 , certainly Sinatra deserved better as his last cinema role
A Snuff Movie	The title sequence is bad enough , a mixture of stock footage and back projection which is so unconvincing it reminded of the title sequence of THE NAKED GUN series . This a really badly made film but the most objectionable thing is its use of stock footage . Films are always made as entertainment , but any form of entertainment that uses footage of real pilots burning to death or sailors drowning when their ship is sunk makes me feel slightly disgusted . As poor as it was PEARL HARBOR didn't fall into this questionable trap
Only In America	I remember the BBC coverage of the Oscars in 1995 . Barry Norman was asking the Brits in Hollywood - Among them Tracey Ullman and Alan Parker - what they thought of the years nominations and the British view was unanimous that FORREST GUMP was nothing more than an overated mediocre movie . After seeing the film for myself I've got to agree with the standard British view - This is an overated mediocre movie It's impossible to believe anyone outside America could love this movie . The overated ( Third time I've used that word in this review ! ) Tom Hanks plays Forrest the local town idiot who experiences many of the truimphs and torments of 1950s 60s and 70s America , and it's all produced , played and written in a sickly sweet way , so sickly sweet you should watch this with a bucket in your hand so you don't get any vomit on the carpet . Amazing fact . Both American and non American voters on this site give FORREST GUMP an identical voter average - 8 . 1 . I'm at a loss to explain this
Probably Harryhausen's Least Impressive Effort	Ray Harryhausen is a special FX god who knocks todays CGI wizards into a corked hat . Compare the skeleton scenes of JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS with many of today's movies and tell me what effect is more convincing ? No contest is it ? Unfortunately the problem with THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD is that the audience is sitting there waiting for some great stop frame animation to come along and the film drags its feet in this respect . Twenty five minutes into the running time and there's only one small sequence featuring the Harryhausen effect , instead the audience have to put up with a bunch of not unknown British television actors standing around talking . The stop frame animation sequences do eventually come but how many children would have been bored senseless by this time ? Watching THE GOLDEN VOYAGE OF SINBAD today is of interest for only two reasons . One is that the heroes are obviously Muslim which you probably won't be seeing in too many movies these days while the other is that the producer of DOCTOR WHO at the time Barry Letts decided to cast Tom baker in the title role after seeing him in this movie
Good Idea Badly Executed	The good news is that this is a spoof documentary . The bad news is that it's not a very good one which is a shame because a great number of people who set their video recorders to tape this will no doubt empathise with Jamie Campbell and Joel Wilson with what it's like trying to build a successful movie career The problem with this spoof is that the humour falls short . one of the wannabes claims to be Alex Garland . Is posing as the screenwriter of 28 DAYS LATER a good idea I ask myself ? In another sequence we're shown a character asking an Afro Caribbean female where her black box is , which is only memorable because it's probably the first and last racist / sexist joke that a Channel 4 production got away with . When legendary internet film critic Paul Hunter said " Their films sucked the life out of me " at the start of the mockumentary I wondered if he was a critic or a prophet A good idea but one that's badly developed If someone is going to make spoof documentaries wouldn't it be more entertaining seeing people flick through a Los Angeles phone book calling up everyone called Bruckheimer asking " Hello . Is that Jerry the film producer ? "
Probably Doesn't Hold Up Today	In 1977 ITV had a " Late night adult movie season " on Monday nights . There's two things you have to consider 1 ) Late night in British TV terms in those days meant 10 . 30 pm . Up until the mid 1980s TV stations would close about 12 . 30 am 2 ) Adult movies shown on television were a world removed from the gore and exploitation seen in video nasties of the early 1980s ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Seeing as these movies were on too late for me I never got to see any of the movies scheduled in this slot with the exception of ASSUALT , though I did read up on what movie was being shown via the TV Times . With the exception of NO BLADE OF GRASS every movie shown seemed to be about a serial killer and this movie is little different , which is a pity since the opening gives the impression that it's going to be a supernatural horror where schoolgirls are being murdered by a demon stalking the woods near the local school . The first third fools the audience into thinking that this indeed is a horror film featuring a demon but then it settles down into a whodunnit as to who the sexual predator is I saw the movie again in the early 1980s and was bitterly disappointed with it . It's not a movie that holds up to repeated viewing if memory serves me right , it has several red herrings like a woman thinks she's being stalked but it turns out to be a police bodyguard and contrived where the villain is caught because he stands beside a red light and justice is dispersed because he chose a bloody stupid escape route To sum up I have to agree with the person who said this is typical of British movies of the late 60s / early 70s . It's very similar to THE BEAST IN THE CELLAR . Once you know what the plot is it's a very flat movie
Not As Good As NAKED GUN	SPY HARD starts with an in joke of having Mr T pilot a helicopter and that's about as sophisticated as the film gets . It's a spy spoof with refferances to IN THE LINE OF FIRE , SPEED , PULP FICTION etc and even includes a sly nod to FELLOWSHIP OF THE THE RING years before that movie was filmed ! . Leslie Nielson does his Frank Drebin routine under the surrogate name of Dick Steel . It's entertaining enough but does get very silly in places and never gets close to the hilarity of THE NAKED GUN series
The Rules Of Plagerism	To all you wannabe movie makers out there don't worry about plagerism because you can only be sued if you tear the top sheet containing the screenplay credits off and insert your new top sheet saying you're the author of the screenplay . That's the literal and legal meaning of plagerism , trust me I've been to film school and I know what I'm talking about and this knowledge must come as a relief to the producers of CHRISTMAS RUSH which is identical in plot to the original DIE HARD movie and when I say identical I do mean identical in every way even down to the bad guys , some of whom are German - I did say identical didn't I ? - taking the hero cop's wife hostage . Did I mention this film's identical to DIE HARD ?
I'm Not Scared	I was up watching BBC1 round about midnight so guess what was on ? That's right an American TVM which was called LIVING IN FEAR and amazingly didn't star Jane Seymour or Victoria Principal in a disease of the week plot . But that didn't stop this TVM from being formuliac . As in all these type of films it starts with a dramatic flashback over the opening titles - A woman falling down a flight of steps - then a caption appears informing us that it's now twenty years later as a newly wed couple arrive in town . And being a TVM it's a middle American town while the newly weds - Chuck and Rebecca - are middle American white Anglo-Saxon protestants . Suffice to say Chuck has a very dark secret from his past and Rebecca soon finds herself in mortal peril . The only difference between LIVING IN FEAR and most other TVMs is that this one is slightly more violent than the usual fare and contains the F word a couple of times Oh hold on there ! If it contains the F word then it surely can't be one of those American mainstream network TVMs . Then why is it written , directed and acted as if it is ?
Dirty Old Men	The problem this film has is the same problem the TV series had and that's the laddish Stan and Jack . There's nothing wrong with laddish characters but Stan and Jack are played by actors who seem to be in their late 40s / early 50s ! And there's something objectionable - not to mention crediblity defying - as they cop off with girls young enough to be their daughtersAs for the rest of HOLIDAY ON THE BUSES , I found it instantly forgettable . It's basically a 30 minute episode spun out to 90 minutes with having all the action take place at a holiday camp instead of a bus stationAmazingly almost a third of voters on this site have given it a 10 ! Come on guys , this film doesn't deserve more than a 5
Hardly A Gripping Thriller	When you see a film title like GRIP OF THE STRANGLER that stars Boris Karloff you're not expecting a romantic musical . Bizarrely there's long segments in this film where the film does indeed resemble a romantic musical . We're introduced to Karloff's character James Rankin whose daughter has fallen in love with a young gentleman and he wants to marry her . Cut to the inside of a theater where can can girls kicking their legs out over their heads . If someone wanted to make a film that would appeal to dirty old men then fine but GRIP OF THE STRANGLER isn't a title that's easy to market to depraved reprobates . Goodness me I thought we'd be watching a film involving people getting strangled every ten minutes and within ten minutes you'll be wanting to strangle the producer Some people have commentated that this is a film that doesn't know what it's trying to be and while this is patently obvious there's a feeling at the back of my mind that it's trying to copy the style of a couple of films directed by Mark Robson that also starred Karloff namely ISLE OF THE DEAD and BEDLAM . Unfortunately the production team have neither the style or skill to pull it off and instead we have a very unfocused B movie at the very best
Not As Bad As I Expected . . . .	. . . . But that's probably because I was expecting the worst movie ever made . This remake of the classic Brit thriller is far from being the worst movie ever made but it is rather substandard . Director Stephen Kay seems to have been influenced by MTV and this shows up in his directing , a funeral scenes is accompanied by a Moby song , a punch up is accompanied by Rush Holme With Love by Mint Royale ( A track that seems to be to film soundtracks this decade what Voodoo Chile was to film soundtracks the last decade ) while the final sequence closes with a track from Grove Armada . I do confess I do like MTV but if you don't you'll hate this directing style . There's two aspects to the script that I disliked . One is the dialogue that tries to be super cool with lines like " Hold on there slick , all of a sudden you're the fin ' good guy " and " We'll take it to another level " which sounds false and unconvincing . The other is changes made to the original 1971 movie . I won't spoil it for you but nearly everything from bleak original has been changed to a completely inferior story . If you liked the way everything worked in the original you'll dislike the way everything plays out here The cast are very uneven and strangely for a thriller it's the female cast members that give the best performances especially Rachael Leigh Cook and Miranda Richardson . It goes without saying Sly fails as a violent anti hero while Alan Cumming is very annoying and camp . Mickey Rourke spends the entire movie posing , John McGinley seems to be on speed while Michael Caine makes little impression . This remake isn't as bad as some people have made out though it's not nearly as good as the original . I give it
Yawn . Yawn . Yawn	The opening of MORTE A VENEZIA resembles a Duran Duran music video with classical music and this is the highlight of the movie " In terms of what Theo ? " In terms of everything , but especially excitement . I doubt if there's ever been a more sluggish slower moving movie than this one . Yeah okay it's a European art house movie so I wasn't expecting Charles Bronson to massacre hordes of bad guys but even so I did expect some substance if not an actual plot The film revolves around Professor Gustav Von Aschenbach visiting Venice . Gustav visits Venice and goes on a gondola , Gustav eats in an expensive restaurant , Gustav looks out of his hotel window and if it's excitement you want Gustav has a flashback Bad enough if this was the entire movie but it gets worse because Gustav notices a pretty boy teenager . So you've got a middle aged academic lusting after some teenage boy he has seen , some old queen is becoming obsessed with a stranger . Great idea for a movie ? I don't think so either and thank gawd it remained a yawn fest instead of some sleazy precursor to gay porn I notice a lot of people who praise this movie have tried to intellectualise it . I can only be monosyllabic and unpretentious in my view and say that the only subtext I could relate to was the physical and emotional disintegration of Gustav but it wasn't caused by the effete beauty of the teenage boy - It was caused by watching such a boring and ostentatious movie
This Is A True Story Is It ?	I'd never heard of the movie PANTHER until it was shown on Channel 4 tonight . I was under the impression that this was going to be a true story about the rise of the Black Panther movement but right from the opening titles the doubt was sown in my mind as the words " Screenplay by Melvin Van Pebbles based on his novel " appeared . Eh ? Novel ? By definition novels are works of fiction so if the screenplay is based on a novel that means it's not a true story Something else I noticed in the credits were some bizarre casting choices with well regarded actors like Joe Don Baker and Angela Bassett appearing alongside non actors like Chris Rock and Bobby Brown and as can be expected the performances are very hit and miss . In fact the casting matches Mario Van Pebbles directing perfectly since one moment it feels like a farcical comedy and the next moment a polemical diatribe on race and a moment later a docu-drama . I doubt if this was Van Pebbles intention , but I will give him credit since he probably upset everyone regardless of race by painting nearly every single white person as being racist while nearly every black person is an anchronistic home boy from the 1990s . Just as well no-one thinks this is a true story . Or do they ?
Just Another TVM	I've been hearing a lot of this new bird flu that has killed dozens of people in South East Asia over the last three years . Apparently it's on the thresh hold of mutating into something very contagious and millions upon millions of people are going to be wiped out in a global pandemic . Just thought I'd mention this in case you haven't got round to writing your will yet . I'd also thought I'd mention it since I was watching something called CARRIERS tonight which wasn't about naval warfare but opens with a scene that's a cross between OUTBREAK and an episode of THE X FILES I saw many years ago . I thought I'd be watching something with added resonance after hearing the stories about the danger posed by bird flu but after the not unimpressive opening CARRIERS descends into a cheap and cheerful TVM and like every other TVM you'll see the lead characters are female , one of which is a ballsy authority figure while the other lead female is a mother of young children . It goes without saying there's a sick child subplot too What is irritating about the TVM format is that it overwhelms the potential of what could have been quite a good film if it was made for cinema . There's a fairly gory scene of someone coughing blood all over a nurses face and a very impressive jay walker getting run down stunt but these bits are quickly forgotten as the mood descends into family sentiment since this - And just about every other TVM ever made - was made for an essentially female audience
I Can't Believe The High Ratings For This	I missed the first few minutes of RAVENOUS which worried me that I might have had my enjoyment of the movie spoiled . Alas if I catched the opening it wouldn't have made any difference whatsoever since this is a totally confused movie that changes mood from scene to scene and has a very underdeveloped script ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Take the scene where the army patrol take Colquhoun to the cave . Colquhoun then stabs the army officer to death and then takes his gun and shoots the Indian scout dead - All in front of an armed soldier ! Why didn't the soldier blow Colquhouns head off ? That's because he's seemingly aware of the fact Colquhoun can't die . In other words the characters are aware of what the screenwriter knows , a major fundamental fault when writing a script . There is a major plot twist later in the film when Colquoun reappears back at the army fort under the name of Ives , an American army officer but this seems to have been written into the screenplay only as a major plot twist . Think about it for a moment . Doesn't it start to fall apart when you think about it ? As for the myths of cannabilism , my ancestors the Picts believed if they ate the hearts and brains of their enemies they would assimilate the knowledge and courage of their dead foes as did many primative tribes but that's all they were - myths and legends , there's no scientific basis for this theory but the screenplay here does believe that if you go about eating fellow human beings you will become immortal . I know it's only a film but this takes fantasy too farDirector Antonia Bird is every bit as guilty for this farce as screenwriter Ted Griffin . As said the mood seems to change from scene to scene and much of this is down to the soundtrack . I did enjoy the Britpop soundtrack to her earlier FACE but here the technobeat score is both annoying and anachronistic . Worse than that she fails to get a decent performance out of Robert Carlyle . Watch the scene where the soldiers enter the cave and Colquhoun suddenly gives a Leo Sayer impersonation . A totally silly and ridiculous performance from one of Scotland's favourite sons who is usually excellent in everything he does . Bird also makes a cock up with the final sequences . First of all an army officer returns to the fort and tries the stew which the audience knows fine well is composed of human meat . Just so the director makes sure we get it the stew contains massive bones . We don't everything pointed out to us thank you . As for the climax of the good guy and bad guy fighting it out it resembles STRAW DOGS meets a Tom & Jerry cartoon . I don't think even the screenwriter envisaged such an OTT endingRAVENOUS flopped at the cinema and I noticed it was also difficult to find on video . After seeing the film I'm actually suprised it went beyond script stage
Very Boring And Unfunny	Last years academy awards was a classic year because . . . A ) Steve Martin was a brilliant host and B ) There were some shock winners This year's awards were very boring because . . . A ) Billy Crystal wasn't as good as Steve Martin and B ) There were no shock winners Before everyone writes an angry private message to me I will point out that in no way was Crystal bad it's just that I didn't find him all that good apart from his New Zealand one liners and his plea to Bill Murray not to walk out . As for the rest of the jokes during the ceremony can someone please tell Owen Wilson and Jim Carrey they're not funny . As for the Oscar awards themselves I was absolutely delighted to see RETURN OF THE KING pick up all the Oscars it was nominated for ( But I can't help thinking Andy Serkis deserved a best supporting actor nod for Gollum ) and the academy recognising this film for being the masterpiece it is was the closest we got a surprise winner , everything else was so predictable with the only real contest being between Bill Murray and Sean Penn for best actor . Penn won much to the heart breaking disappointment of Murray . I couldn't help noticing Francis Ford Coppola seemed disgusted with the result , I doubt if Penn's next starring role will be a Coppola productionIn terms of shocks and presentation I do hope next year's ceremony will be an improvement and we get to see Steve Martin in a cheeky moodAs a footnote we in Britain get to a see a slightly different Oscar show . In the American presentation there's ad breaks while over the pond we get to see Johnathan Ross interviewing guests for their opinions during the ad breaks . This year his guests were composed of Rob Brydon , Roni Ancona and Alistair McGowan and what this trio's connection to Hollywood is I have no idea and none of them had either interesting or funny to say . If the BBC insist on flying over guests to LA to talk about movies could they please use people with a passionate interest in movies . There's hundreds of people who contribute to this site wondering why they weren't invited
Too Many Issues - Not Enough Comedy	When I was a film student in London I was the only Scot in class which led to the inevitable question " Do you set your screenplays in Scotland Theo ? " I replied I didn't because setting a story in a specific geographical location lessens the marketability of a script because the parochial nature only appeals to a specific audience BHAJI ON THE BEACH would be an example of what I'm talking about where a bunch of Indian women travel from Birmingham on a day trip to Blackpool . Does anyone think a bunch of women singing the Cliff Richard hit Summer Holiday in Punjabi is funny ? Have you got to be Hindu to appreciate the joke ? Perhaps I'm being quick off the mark to condemn the movie through its small minded ethnicity because I'm not entirely sure if that's the film's problem . What is certainly a problem are the far too many issues crammed into the story . Things like domestic abuse , teenage pregnancy are touched upon and because of the characters ethnic background racism is makes an appearance too in a story that's overwhelmed by its social conscience and underwhelmed by laughter . If you want to send a message try Western Union instead of celluloid
Big Names Aren't Always Enough	On the surface this might appear to be a relatively entertaining film since it stars two big names , but stop to consider the careers of both Julia Roberts and Brad Pitt . Roberts was unbelievably lucky to have won the Oscar for ERIN BROCKOVICH while Pitt is obviously a film star due to his sexy boy looks . You're right i'm slightly jealous of Pitt's physique and his face and even more jealous still that he's made a massively successful career out of it and like everything else he's appeared in THE Mexican shows Pitt is not much of an actor The plot revolves around gangster Jerry Walbach being sent down to Mexico by the mob to collect an antique firearm called " The Mexican " and while he's away his girlfriend Samantha is kidnapped by a hit-man called Winston Baldry who also wants to get his hands on The Mexican . I'm not sure if the premise would have allowed for many laughs but what's obvious on screen is that Roberts and Pitt try and milk the humour for all it's worth . This is a mistake because the comedy should come out of the situations the characters find themselves in not by Roberts and Pitt mugging for the camera , shouting or waving their arms about trying to convince the audience that this is a funny film . Even worse is the casting of James Gandolfini as Winston since he's written as a gay version of Tony Soprano , effectively we've got Gandolfini playing a distractingly similar role that he's best known for . Thankfully we don't see JK Simmons playing the head of The Ayran Brotherhood but his character is such a wimp I found myself wishing he'd say something like " From now on Jerry your ass belongs to me " while craving a swastika onto his victim's flesh . It's probably also a mistake to have Gene Hackman in here since his scene seems to have been written just so we'd get a cameo from a living legend . Anything that prolongs the running time of this movie receives harsh judgement from me THE Mexican is a comedy that I found to be far from entertaining . The casting of such big names must have cost a lot of money and more time and attention should have been taken with the script and you do get the irritating feeling that the producers thought having a couple of big names in the movie everything would have taken care of itself . Obviously it didn't . Some people on the message boards have complained that this is the worst movie ever when in fact it's not even the worst movie Brad Pitt has appeared in , but unless you're a die hard fan of either Roberts or Pitt there's not much point in seeing this amigo
Mediocre	Computing . Can there be anything more boring ? Sitting in front of a computer all day typing away at some keys all day every day , tap tap tapping . That's much of the problem with this movie , the heroine sits in front of a computer VDU tapping the keys and no matter how many looks of agitation she gives , or how much suspenseful notes the composer strikes or how many extreme close ups the director uses there's not much excitement down to the fact that there's few things less exciting than watching somebody on a computer There's a few other problems too much of them factual errors regarding how computers work . Is it possible to hack into a computer that is both turned off and not connected to the internet ? I guess that when THE NET was made 10 years ago very few people would understand how computers worked so the screenwriters would have been able to BS at length but since we now live in a global village where nearly every household in the western world has their own computer the audience are certainly very clued up on the factual errors of this movie . And of course there's too many instances where someone acts stupid or out of character at crucial times in order to progress the plot which makes THE NET a very mediocre movie
Confused Anthology Tale	It's difficult to believe now but at one time Rod Steiger was as highly regarded as Marlon Brando . I say it's difficult to believe because instead of being remembered for great performances in ON THE WATERFRONT and IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT spent most of the 1980s appearing in horror B movies and when you stop to think of it Brando career had also disappeared from the map during that period , and now when I think about I'm having difficulty in trying to remember a good DeNiro performance However I can't fault Steiger who gives a pretty good performance in THE ILLUSTRATED MAN . He plays a rough drifter called Carl who befriends a young drifter called Will , and then . . . . well that would be telling . The one thing I couldn't help noticing is that most of the thought seems to have gone into the linking story rather than the anthologies themselves . Compare this with British anthology tales where it seems the other way round . The segments seem underdeveloped , filled full of holes , and don't make a lot of sense . In fact this about the only time when I've thought an anthology film would have worked a whole lot better without any anthology segments
Very Dull	This is considered to be the weakest story of series two and it's not very difficult to see why . Coming after a couple of stories , one of which is considered to be a modern classic ( The Impossible Planat / Satan Pit ) while the other ( Love And Monsters ) is one of the most radical pieces of television produced Fear Her was never going to be all that well received , but its Luke warm reception is to do mainly with the fact it's a very dull predictable story If you watched the " next time " trailer from the previous week then you'll know in advance as to what the story is about and therefore there's no suspense . You also can't help notice that because the plot was one of those written on the back of a cigarette packet efforts then there's so much padding centered around on dysfunctional family issues , in this case single parenthood . Really I often think some of the writers would be more at home working on EASTENDERS or CORONATION STREET . All this is bad enough but we've got a bloody stupid sequence of the Doctor carrying the Olympic torch ! It shows had badly constructed the episode was when you've got to include crap like that
Nothing To Do With Sea Food	The title sequence is phemomenally literal . We see an animated prawn wooing a mate and the sequence finishes with the mummy and daddy prawns herding their off spring away from camera . You can imagine the sequence designer being told the title of the movie by the producer and nothing else so you can't blame the guy for being so literally minded . Come on with a title like THE AMOROUS PRAWN what did you think this film was about ? As for the rest of the movie there's little I can recall apart from Ian Carmichael being cast against type as a working class corporal and since I only saw it a few hours ago that probably tells you something of its quality . It's one of those British " Blimey where'd I leave my trousers ? " type farces featuring a bunch of squaddies pulling a scam on American tourists , too gentle to be compared to the CARRY ON franchise and too slapstick to appeal to sophisticated audiences . It's this type of unambitious movie made by studios that quickly killed off the British film industry since this years British success story was DOCTOR NO , a film that was produced and financad by Americans and appealed to a world wide audience
Plot less Love Story	For the life of me I have no idea what type of movie director Diane Kurys was trying to make here . It centres around the relationship between American director Steve Elliot and English actress Jane Steiner . It contains long - Too long - scenes of romantic European cities with romantic music in the background but at the same time is possibly too explicit to be a simple love story . For example Steve gets Jane to tell him an erotic lesbian fantasy " I can feel her lips on my nipples as I rub my hand between her legs . . . " and there's some nudity . But the problem with MAN IN LOVE is that there's zero plot . Okay I wasn't expecting car chases or Bruce Willis crashing through windows but the story ends up going nowhere . In many ways it's like a meaningless Mills & Boon story that might strike a cord with women who have just experienced a holiday romance . No doubt French film students will think this some sort of romantic masterwork but I didn't care for it apart from the lesbian fantasy monologue
Globus And Golan At Full Throttle	If you're not old enough to remember Yoram Globus and Menahem Golan here's the rundown : They're a couple of film producers and finaciers from Israel who set up the Cannon film company in the early 1980s . The only Israeli to get a worse press than these two was Menachim Begin . Begin probably deserved the bad press but Globus and Golan were a god send to film makers because no matter how bad your script was they'd happily fund your movie and would normally employ directors who couldn't direct and actors who couldn't act . In fact you often got the impression that people would just walk up to Yoram and Menahem ask them for some money and they'd oblige without seeing the film maker's resume . If only producers nowadays were so trusting . THE YOUNG WARRIORS isn't a Cannon film but Globus and Golan did finance it and it has their signature all over it . It's badly directed , badly acted , badly edited but it's the script that jumps out and attacks you with its awfulness . It starts with a bunch of high school jocks getting involved in all sorts of zany pranks , in fact the first 20 minutes of the movie plays out like a sex comedy and it's something of a shock when THE YOUNG WARRIORS turns into a vigilante movie . But it's not just any type of vigilante movie like EXTERMINATOR 2 or DEATH WISH 3 ( Notice a connection ? They're both sequels and they're both vigilante movies made by Cannon films ) , no siree this is a laughably bad vigilante movie about pretty boy high school jocks and their poodle going on a mission to wipe out scumbags . This film is proof that Globus and Golan were giving money to people regardless of their film making abilities and you have to worry about people who seem to spend their entire reserves on making movies set entirely around vigilantes
Oh Look , It's Britney !	As everyone else has mentioned it makes a nice change watching a soft core porn film that seems silicone free , but as with all these type of movies there's not much of a story involvedThe only outstanding thing about FORBIDDEN is the presence of Renee Rea . It sounds really weird but Ms Rea face wise resembles a slightly chubbier slightly older Britney Spears . See this movie if you don't believe me
Is There An Explanation ?	MILD SPOILERS _ BUT YOU PROBABLY KNOW THE PLOT Woman gets raped and decides to take out her rage on all of mankind . Oh did I mention the rape victim was mute ? That's the problem with MS 45 , Thana the rape victim decides she's going to kill men but is there any logical explanation to any of this ? Surely the whole film would have better if we had Thana give a voice over as to why she's bumping off any man she comes across ? There's just not enough development to this plotAs you'd expect from a film by Ferrara it's not a complete waste of time . it's far better than I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE and pseudo intellectuals will have a field day pointing out the irony of the woman holding a knife like a penis as Thana goes on a killing spree at the end . But the script is somewhat silly and underdeveloped and hinders any serious comment the film could have made
Seen It All Before	Jean Claude Van Damme's movie career seems to have gone to hell in a handcart so how ironic to see him playing a character who meets the same fate in a literal manner at the very start of the movie ! It's also interesting to note how very , very similar the plots of his movies play out regardless of who the producer , director or screenwriter are . Van Damme usually plays a character who is living in France then due to a set of circumstances finds himself in another part of the globe where he has a brother who dies and it's up to Van Damme to get revenge helped by a character he's just met . Look at AWOL or LEGOINAIRRE or many other films that feature the headline " Starring Jean Claude Van Damme " and they all feature nearly the same type of story structure . This doesn't mean they're identical of course , just very similar and if you've seen one Van Damme movie you've basically seen them all . It's the same with MAXIMUM RISK
I Do Hope This is A Spoof	Some people can't get enough of these " stalker from hell " type movies right ? We've had SINGLE WHITE FEMALE , UNLAWFUL ENTRY etc and there was nowhere for the genre left to go . Enter MATERNAL INSTINCTS which spoofs this type of thriller Tracy Horton wants a baby . She goes into hospital and it's found she's suffering from cancer of the womb so she is given an emergency hysterectomy which means she cant have children . This sets up the story for some comedy touches . At least I think they were comedy touches , well of course they're comedy touches I mean no one can take take the dialogue seriously can they . I mean what sort of idiot would write a line where a character wakes up in hospital and says : " You mean I can't have children ? Why didn't you just kill me ? " Does anyone need me to point out that Doctors aren't allowed to kill their patients on purpose ? If you want to get killed on purpose move to London and attract the attention of the police . Tracy doesn't seem to know this so it's left to other people to point out simple truths to her like : " If you bought a lottery ticket yesterday you could have been a millionaire today " Obviously Tracy is very frustrated about not knowing this because it seems to turn her into a sociopath , I mean she can't have children and she never buys a lottery ticket so who wouldn't be frustrated in her position so she takes her anger out on Dr Eva Warden , the woman who was responsible for saving her life . I won't spoil what happens but look out for the climax which rips off the original TERMINATOR movie . Very sophisticated spoof that knowingly winks to a critical audience who always ask awkward questions like " Why didn't Tracy have children long before this " Probably because they cast someone who looks like a cross between Roseanne Barr and Elvira . Would you want to give her a baby ? Would you even be capable of getting aroused ? Very sophisticated spoof . I do hope it's a spoof
Over Produced Tear Jerker	What a great cast , Meryl Streep , Robert DeNiro , Diane Keaton and Leonardo DiCaprio . This is a certain sure fire box office hit . So what's it about ? A single mother whos sister is dying from Leukaemia ! AAAAARRRRRRGGGGGHHHHH Let's be honest , no one is going to watch a plot that is basically TVM material no matter how big the cast , so what's the point of making it ? Couldn't the producers have saved themselves a massive amount of big name actors fees by making MARVIN'S ROOM a television production ? And leonardo DiCaprio as a moody , sullen , troubled teenager ! Whatever his merits as an actor - And I'll reserve my final judgement untill after I've seen GANGS OF NEW YORK - he's most certainly not James Dean or Marlon Brando
" It's Not Chocolate "	I can remember basically all of the ARMCHAIR THRILLER shows produced , some more than others though I often can't remember plot details . Perhaps that less than five people have voted on A DOG'S RANSOM and I am the first person to comment on it shows how unregarded it is ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! This starts with someone getting their dog stolen and recieving a ransom note along the lines of " Give me money or I'll sell your doggie to a South Korean gourmet chef " . The police are informed and a young PC is assinged to the case . Good job there wasn't any human beings kidnapped because the police would be far too busy to do anything . As the story continues it's revealed that a Polish immigrant is the kidnapper who is later murdered . He is actually murdered by a CID officer who at the end of the story kills the young PC in order to cover up the crime . How all this ties up I can't remember There is a very memorable scene in this very unmemorable thriller where two girls receive a pakage through the post . " Yum . Chocolates " drools one as she opens the package that is addressed to her friend . She opens one of the chocolates , pops it into her mouth then suddenly gives a shocked expression " What's wrong ? " her friend asks " It's not chocolates " " Then what is it ? " as she takes the box of chocolates and examines them " AAAAAARRRRRRRGGGHHHHH " She throws the box away as she finally realises that the box of chocolates addressed to her are composed of these things that come out of dogs bottoms and are very common on street pavements
Not A Classic	" Steven Seagal sets the screen alight in the all action classic - UNDER SIEGE " said the BBC announcer before the transmission . I beg to differ Mr Announcer . UNDER SIEGE isn't the worst action film ever made but its no classic either . It can best be described as an ultra violent episode of MACGUYVER with the hero living on his wits and making all sorts of deadly booby traps with anything that comes to hand . The best aspect of the film is the performances oof Busey and Jones as the bad guys . Conversly the worst aspect of UNDER SIEGE is the performance of the leading man . We could sit all day on one of the boards and discuss who is the greatest ever action star but there can be no doubt that the worst one is Steven Seagal . He has the facial expression of a totem pole and the voice of a speak your weight machine that's overdosed on tranquillisers , and seeing as UNDER SIEGE features Seagal's greatest ever performance as an actor it comes as no surprise we don't see him on cinema screens anymore " You're good . You're very good " No you're not Steven you're very bad and the only way you'll set my TV screen alight is if you come round to my flat with a flamethrower
Unfocused	! ! ! ! ! POSSIBLE MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ALONG FOR THE RIDE ( As I know it - I've never heard of it called FOREVER LULU ) has an opening very similar to film noir , then becomes a road movie then tricks the audience into thinking they'll be watching a thriller about a " disturbed mental patient going on rampage " but then the film pulls the carpet from under the audiences feet as it turns into a mawkish tear jerker . This isn't a mixed genre road movie , it's an extremely unfocused movie , just when you think it's going in one direction it does a U-turn and goes into another direction entirely . There's also some other aspects in the script that bring the film down : The dialogue veers between the flowery and the banal , a good example being " I just wanna suck the light from the stars " which sounds like a lyric from a Throwing Muses album . The lines not helped by the next line being the painfully obvious " Lulu , are you taking your medication ? " I can't say ALONG FOR THE RIDE is very well directed or acted either . Melanie Griffith frequently shoves her wonderful cleavage into the camera but if we're using this criteria to judge films then surely PITCH BLACK is the greatest film ever made ? ! Patrick Swayze just doesn't do enough to communicate the pathos and torment his character is going through which I found very surprising . To do this I'd have thought all he had to do would be reflect upon a few years back when he starred in DIRTY DANCING and GHOST and compare it to his present status . I'm sure he'd have no problem turning on the tears in that case
Too Incredible To Be Funny	BOAT TRIP is the kind of movie that has a good premise but remains under developed . A couple of horny young men sign up for a sex cruise but since they've annoyed the travel agent he gets his revenge by putting them on a gay cruise . Be honest there's all types of laugh out loud opportunities with this kind of plot but for some unknown reason laughs are few and far between No I take that back because the reason isn't unknown at all and is very obvious - There's a lack of credibility involved . The two protagonists Jerry and Nick are told by the travel agent that there's three girls for every boy , a ratio that would make The Beach Boys envious . So they go down to the harbour along with a bunch of well toned young men , walk around the cruise ship brag to each other what they're gonna be doing to all those hot chicks , visit the bar which is full of hunky young men who are not wearing much and only realise it's a gay cruise when Lloyd Faversham tells them . Considering Jerry and Nick were expecting a ship to have a 75 % population of women it's impossible to believe they wouldn't have noticed something was up ( No jokes please ) as soon as they set foot upon the ship . I know it's only a film but even so there's a distinct lack of credibility involved The gags themselves are unfunny and predictable and as soon as Nick asks : " Do you know where I can get off ? " you know that the punchline is going to be " yes try The Hole In One " . I couldn't help thinking that much of the potential humour was toned down because the producers didn't want to be accused of homophobia so we've got an entirely daft movie that both gay and straight people will dislike . Mind you no doubt the cast and production team enjoyed working on the movie . They spend several weeks filming on a cruise ship in the Med and they get paid for it ! Some people have all the luck unlike the audience for BOAT TRIP
There's A Killer On The Loose	! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Someone's going around bumping off cops and you really can't him since the cops . . . 1 ) Beat up suspects . Though to be fair they'll beat up anyone regardless of skin colour so at least they're not racist cops 2 ) Swear a lot 3 ) Spout terrible dialogue 4 ) Get drunk in bars and decide to drive home 5 ) Have sex in a room full of strobing light effects thereby giving voyeurs a seizureActually this was slightly better than I expected it was going to be . My only real complaint is when the murderer was revealed as the police captain who had killed the hero's father years earlier . I'm still still trying to work out what the motive for all this was . Perhaps I missed something due to a seizure ?
Spare Me The Self-Pity	There were two things I hated about WASTED : The directing and the script . I know I'm opening myself up to ridicule but Stephen T Kay's direction is too much like a . . . . like a . . . . well like a MTV pop video . It's shot ( I think ) on digital video against an intrusive soundtrack , often out of focus and often with rapid cross cutting . If you're not a teenager you'll find many segments of WASTED unwatchable due to the stylistic approach . As bad as the directing was it was the script that yanked my chain . The story is told through Samantha , a poor little rich girl who spends much of the film talking through voice over ( Strange how the voice over never seems idiosyncratic enough to have come from the same character ) telling us of the pressure of her exams , the pressure of home life , her social solitude and it's all this that led her to take drugs . It's for similar reasons like parental break up that her two male friends ( I thought she was supposed to be lonely ? ) to start taking drugs . Oh poor little Sammi in her nice house and her problems how my heart bled for you and your chums - NOT . What WASTED doesn't mention is that no matter what someone is addicted to , be it drink , drugs , nicotine or chocolate that person has to work at becoming an addict , they're not a victim of external forces , they're commiting an act of free will . Both TRAFFIC and TRAINSPOTTING made this point very well , people become addicts because they want to . To portray them as victims in any way is wrong patronising and very possibly dangerousBy the way , if MTV are anti drugs will they stop playing videos from stars who freely admit taking drugs ?
Almost Ruined By Its Post Modern Art House Values	As I said in my review of LIFE IS BEAUTIFUL I am not a fan of holocaust movies and find them to be consistently over rewarded at film festivals . I also find them to be a poor subject for a movie for several reasons not least because how can you successfully translate so much human suffering into a movie ? The answer is you can't . But MY MOTHER'S COURAGE ( As it is known in Britain ) is a lot going for it not least because it doesn't go in for a sweeping spectacular scope in order to tell a story . This another problem with the holocaust genre - the narrative often starts before the Second World War with smiling Jewish families , the Nazis invade Eastern Europe ( 1939 in the case of Poland . 1941 in the rest of the region ) the families are deported and the story continues until liberation in 1945 giving little time to concentrate on detail . This movie is different since the main part of the running time revolves around a train journey , and it's little details like toilet facilities on the train that make MY MOTHER'S COURAGE such a human tale of suffering , narrative wise this film doesn't really concern itself with millions upon millions of murders by the Hitler regime over a period of years , it's more concerned with a day in the life of Nazi victims who are going to end up in one of their death camps hence we've got a human story that humanity can relate to more . I also wish to stay something that may possibly make me unpopular and that is the way some of the Nazis are portrayed as being decent human beings . No don't pick me up wrong , I'm not sticking up for Nazism but scene where Elsa sits in the train carriage with the German officer towards the end of the film is unique as is Elsa's monologue towards the officer Have you worked it out yet ? I found MY MOTHER'S COURAGE beautiful , haunting and touching , far more so than say SCHINDLER'S LIST and yet I have only awarded it ! That's because the director Michael Verhoeven has made it into an inaccesible self referential pretentious art house movie of the worst kind . The story starts off with the real life George Tabori ( Son of Elsa ) addressing the audience then walking into a film studio where this production is being made and talking with Verhoeven and the cast . I have no idea what the point of all this is but it fails to work . We also have to endure ridiculous scenes where Tabori walks into the narrative and talks addresses the audience and says " Good morning " to the Nazi guards ! I wouldn't say this totally failed attempt to out do Lars Von Triers in a bizarre post modernist contest totally ruins the movie but it comes very , very close indeed and the story would have worked much better without this ridiculous gimmick
Really Strange Direction	This is a family movie that was broadcast on my local ITV station at 1 . 00 am a couple of nights ago . This might be a strange decision on the part of the schedulers but THE REAL HOWARD SPITZ is a rather strange film , strange in the way it doesn't want to upset its audience . Come on there's nothing kids like more than sadism and that's why Roald Dahl was such a popular author for children . It also explains why DOCTOR WHO was such a successful show across the world . In this screenplay you're just dying for pulp fiction author to do something nasty to the kids but this doesn't happen . I'm not advocating child abuse but to see Howard Spitz lose his rag at the little ones would have made the movie rather better . Can you imagine how much worse KINDERGARTEN COP would have been if the producers had gone all PC ? I mean if you're making a movie centered around a children's author who hates children shouldn't the story show and not tell ? Much of the problem lies with director Vadim Jean and you do get the feeling he doesn't know how to handle the material which is bad news for the movie . As someone previously noted the soundtrack is haphazard and Kelsey Grammar is very wooden . I guess he was trying to play it dead pan just like in that show he's famous for but it fails to work here and there's many scenes with quiet ridiculous camera angles which seem unintentional but which are very distracting . But at the end of the day the main problem remains that the potential is ruined because no one wanted to offend the audiences sensibilities
Instantly Forgettable	! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ! I saw MIB 2 a couple of hours ago and it wasn't untill I typed this review that I suddenly realised I can hardly remember a thing about it ! Now let's see I remember special effects . . . . . well CGI which is so common nowadays I'm not sure if it's classed as a special effect anymore . Oh and the usually impressive Tommy Lee Jones is in it , but he doesn't actually appear until the mid way point of the film and this leads to a subplot with Agent K teaching Agent J what M . I . B operations involve . Oh yes those cute worm guys are in it just like in the first film , oh and so's that guy who can grow a new head . Ah I'm starting to remember what's wrong with this sequel - it's very very similar to the original . In fact it covers very little new ground which is okay if you loved the first MEN IN BLACK film but I didn't , I found it typical Hollywood Summer blockbuster FX laden fare . And I found the sequel worse in this respect
I missed The First Five Minutes . . . .	. . . . So I don't know if this is a factor of not being able to make head nor tail of this sequel . To my mind it plays out entirely different from what I was expecting , where the original movie ended led me to believe this sequel would involve the most dangerous pyramid scheme in human history - and unless you've seen RINGU that last sentence will make no sense - but here we have something that threatens to come close to the Brian DePalma films CARRIE and THE FURY and I bet that Gore Verbinski and Ehren Kruger will milk that aspect for all it's worth in the Hollywood remake . It's good in places with a scene involving aura photography being very chilling especially with creepy music being played over the soundtrack and the ending does answer the question I had about the ending of the Hollywood version of THE RING , but this is still an inferior reworking of the original that left me confused with scenes like the bit in the swimming pool , just what was all that about ? Some people on this page are pleading not to see a RINGU 3 produced . I couldn't agree more . I give RINGU 2 a mere
Directed By Walter Hill ?	As soon as this prison movie starts you realise it was directed by a young inexperienced director who has been influenced by rap videos on the MTV channel and multiple viewings of OZ . As soon as a character is introduced BOOM a rap track starts and we see a caption giving the characters name , their crime and date of sentence . One can't feeling that this young director wanted to include a flashback scene but possible litigation by HBO stopped him . The real bad news is that the director of UNDISPUTED isn't a young hip director who has potential - the director is Walter Hill and it's obvious his career is in free fall as he bombards the audience with all types of choppy MTV effects This wouldn't be so bad if there was a great storyline but the script doesn't even reach being mediocre and it's really quite bad . Heavyweight champ James " Iceman " Chambers is sentenced to 6 to 8 years for rape ( Gosh I wonder who that could be based on ? ) and the prison Mr Fix-it Mendy Ripstien arranges for Iceman to go head to head with prison champ Monroe Hutchen . I take it Ripstien is Jewish ? And he's sentenced for tax evasion ! Hey don't worry about clichéd stereotypes or anything like that . Oh and despite being a maximum security prison Mr Ripstien has friends who are white , Latino and African American . Even Hutchen has a colleague who's white . Hey anyone who wants to see what a success American ethnic diversity and multiculturalism is really must get themselves sentenced to some serious time in an American maximum security prison where everyone respects one another and never judge anyone on the colour of their skinI suppose the laughable unreality of a melting pot inside an American prison stops everyone noticing the rather poor casting choices in this film . I notice Ving Rhames is very often filmed from the chest upwards and rarely takes off his shirt . Is this because the audience won't be fooled into believing a 42 year old man with a fair amount of flab is unconvincing as a heavyweight boxing champ ? I think it might . Wesley Snipes is well buffed but it's painfully obvious he's far too short to be considered a heavyweight and in reality he'd only be a middleweight in boxing terms . That said I doubt if the audience will be able to connect with either fighter anyway since one's a rapist and the other is a murderer so why should we be cheering on either man ?
As You'd Expect From A TVM	This is a sequel to a previous made for television movie ? What you mean producers of TVMs are trying to beat Hollywood at its own game by making sequels ? I fail to see the logic in this since franchise movies are entirely down to money . Having said that it would explain why I felt that AN UNEXPECTED LIFE was underdeveloped where characterisation was concerned . Who are these people ? Why are they so upset about grandma coming to stay ? and so on It's strange but AN UNEXPECTED LIFE feels like it's a sequel to every TVM ever made , or not so much a sequel more a remake . Is there a scene where a sibling feels rejected about a new arrival ? Yes . Is there a weepy court scene involving children ? Yes . Is there a scene where a grown up has angry words with a parent ? Yes . Is everybody going to love one another at the end ? Yes . Will DVD rentals increase when this type of movie is shown on network ? YES YES YES YES
Fans Might Like It . I Didn't	I had heard of the cult TV sci-fi comedy MYSTERY SCIENCE THEATER 3000 but had never seen an episode . I also knew what the show involved and its premise hadn't exactly struck me as ground breaking ( Though possibly this might have influenced DVD commentary tracks ) but after seeing the praise showered upon by commentators I decided to watch MST 3000 THE MOVIE , after all if I didn't like it I didn't have to give a good reviewSorry guys but I didn't like this and it won't be getting a good review from me . The problem lies in two areas . First of all is the fact that this show has all the potential to be entertaining family fodder with its really cute robot characters ( And just think how much merchandising potential there lies in there ) but for some reason the producers have pitched the show towards a juvenile teenage schoolboy audience with juvenile humour which brings me to the second problem : Whether you think the humour is juvenile or not doesn't matter because it's unfunny , a good example is when a character from the film THIS ISLAND EARTH appears and the MST 3000 audience shout " Sieg Heil " - it's seconds before that character is revealed as being a German thereby ruining any potential laughs from the joke . In fact I only smirked once during the film and that was a joke involving Pete Townshend which probably wouldn't have been funny in 1996 when this movie was made
A Fairly Poor Disaster Movie	This is an incredibly mediocre disaster movie . So mediocre and ill thought out that you can be forgiven to thinking it's a spoof if it wasn't for the fact that AIRPORT 75 isn't even bad enough to be good . Say what you like about AIRPORT 77 and AIRPORT 80 : THE CONCORDE at least those flying accidents were entertaining A light plane crashes into the cockpit of a jumbo jet killing or maiming the flight crew so it's left to stewardess Nancy Pryor to try and fly the plane to safety and right away you can see a little flaw to this plot - What is it stewardesses do ? That's right they walk up and down aircraft serving food and drink to passengers so gawd knows why the producers thought because someone works on a plane they have an extensive knowledge of flying one . There must be amongst the passengers better qualified would be pilots , though perhaps a bimbo stewardess publicly announcing that the flight crew are either dead or incapacitated would anyone with a pilot's licence please go to the flight deck might cause a panic To be honest causing a panic amongst the passengers brings me to another major flaw with the film . look at the scenes of the passengers in the background . When the scene is supposed to be dramatic we can clearly see extras with totally bored faces and when there's a slower scene where nothing happens extras in the background look like they're having a heart attack through fear . It's difficult to know who to blame , the director or the actors but it's oh so very noticeable Despite the relatively big names the production values are very cheap looking leading me to believe that most of the budget was squandered on Heston's fee . The cockpit looks exactly what it is - a studio prop with back projection in front of it and the whole feel of the film screams that it's a made for television movie . There's no doubt that this is the weakest in the AIRPORT franchise
Didn't Set My Heart Alight	! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The premise goes like this : A store gets burnt down and assistant Sergio is asked by the father of the man who started the fire to take the wrap to which Sergio agrees . So far so good , but there's a fair lapse of logic involved Sergio agrees to do this for the sum of 25 , 000 dollars but why ? Come on guys if you were a good looking white boy would you run the risk of getting a long spell in a tough jail ( A very real possibilty for arson ) for the sake of 25 grand ? I know I wouldn't , and seeing as you'd have a criminal record no employer would want to touch you with a barge pole so is $25 , 000 dollars all that much for a life of workfare and welfare cheques ? There's also something else that seems to have gone without notice from the premise , since Mister Lumpke has told Sergio that his son did the fire he seems unware of the possibility that he may know too much . Wouldn't alarm bells be ringing in your mind about someone wanting to keep you quite if they told you something ? I guess we're not suppossed to think about such details since A PYROMANIAC'S LOVE STORY isn't suppossed to be an intelligent thriller , it's a light hearted romantic comedy / chick flick that's probably best apprieciated as a girls night in . Looking through this comments page it is obvious that the movie has its defenders but as a cynical male I wasn't too impressed and William Baldwin does go way over the top
Rather Boring	One thing I have noticed about British horror movies from the 1970s is that they don't hold up to repeated viewing THEATRE OF BLOOD is a case in point as are all those Amicus anthology movies . Add THE BEAST IN THE CELLAR to the list Much of the drama of this movie revolves around the build up of a plot revelation at the end . Once you know what the revelation is this becomes a rather flat film . It does open with a fairly good hook but after that we're treated to long boring sequences of two old ladies making small talk . Correct me if I'm wrong but how many people watch a horror movie expecting a couple of old ladies making small talk ? The only sort of interest to be found in THE BEAST IN THE CELLAR is the anti-smoking stance . Some people have mentioned that this is an anti-war or anti-military film but watch carefully and you'll see that everytime a squaddie lights up for a fly puff he gets killed . Rather strange considering attitudes to smoking weren't nearly so hysterical as they are nowadays
Not As Good As The TV Show	This film version of James Herriot's series of novels isn't much cop compared to the television show of the same . This movie is the prior piece but there's nothing very memorable about . The plot is more or less composed of " Will young James get married to his girlfriend or not ? " , hardly the most original or compelling premise for a movie , and we're treated to little in the way of these blackly comical scenes of animals and their owners having mishaps that made the TV show enjoyable . Perhaps the worst problem is that Tristan ( Played by boyish mischief in the show by Peter Davison ) is more or less a peripheral character in this movieThe cast are passable ( Simon West was rather famous when this was produced while Anthony Hopkins was almost totally unknown ) but they seem to lack the flair that Christopher Timothy , Robert Hardy and Peter Davison brought to the long running series
Disappointing Thriller	With the exception of the new series of DOCTOR WHO , this has got to be the most publicised BBC serial of the year , and with good reason I guess since Robert Harris is a popular and acclaimed novelist whose books make very informative reading ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! However watching ARCHANGEL it becomes very obvious that his novels work as informative and very well researched novels only suited to the printed page to make them anyway successful . The FATHERLAND TVM set in a Nazi dominated world of the 1960s is hated by fans of the novel , while ENIGMA doesn't really lend itself to the way the movie was marketed and it's the same with this BBC miniseries Is the Russian tundra a good location for a thriller ? There's a limit to how much the human eye can take before it starts suffering from snow blindness , in fact the cold snowy landscape depressed this viewer more than anything else . Oh and because of the plot we treated to lots of simplified ex positional dialogue for the benefit of a mass audience who don't know the first thing about Uncle Joe Stalin . Exposition in a book is one thing because you can dedicate many pages of characters thought process , but watching it on a television screen means the characters and dialogue come off as unnatural But ironically it's Harris's plot where everything comes apart - Stalin had a son who no one knows about and is trying to force the new Russia into communist dictatorship again . Sorry I don't buy that due to the gaps in logic . Communism wasn't founded under Stalin nor did it end with the death of Stalin so why the big deal about new communism on the march ? And why would killing Stalin Jnr signal the end of a potential communist era ? The flaws with this political thriller are the same as the ones of Ira Levin's novel about Hitler being cloned . They are somewhat ridiculous plots but are so well written that the reader won't notice these flaws . Watching it played out on screen is a different matter
Badly Written	I watched this hoping to find out something I didn't know about modern history's most infamous man and couldn't help thinking that history has been rewritten in HITLER : THE RISE OF EVIL . Hitler was so obsessed with his niece that he threatened to have one of her admirer's shot . Hitler turned up with a gun in his hand to arrest Ernst Rohm . Forgive me for asking but haven't the writers confused Adolph Hitler with Tony Montana from SCARFACE ? That's bad enough but what really offended me was that there's entire chunks of historical context missing in this mini series . Germany lost the first world war and the allied powers made Germany pay a heavy price for doing so . It was this economic environment that led the German people to have someone - anyone - to restore their pride and that's why they turned to Nazism . The German humiliation of the 1920s caused by the allied powers seems to be entirely missing therefore there is no way that HITLER : THE RISE OF EVIL can be taken seriously as a historical document , and I haven't even mentioned that Himmler and Goering are conspicous by their absence There is one positive point about the mini series and that's Robert Carlyle in the title role . Okay some of his mannerisms are wrong and his voice is a little too loud ( Archive recordings show that Hitler had a soft seductive voice ) but Carlyle is a charismatic actor and he does manage to communicate Hitler's own charisma on screen . Comments in the British press that Carlyle resembles the synth player from Sparks more than Adolph Hitler are unfounded and he gives one of the better interpretations of Hitler . I liked the performance by Robert Carlyle but I hated everything else about this mini series and wondered why on earth it was made in the first place . There's nothing to recommend it to serious history fans
I Forgot That I Watched This	Normally when I watch a movie that I'm planning to review for this site I scribble down a few notes while watching it . Today's Wednesday and I found a piece of paper in my pocket that contained a few notes on LAKE PLACID . If I hadn't found that piece of paper I would have had absolutely no recollection that I saw this on Saturday night . That's forgettable LAKE PLACID is . By some irony it wasn't really necessary for me to take notes watching this boring and predictable movie because it can be summed up with the words " JAWS rip off " featuring some dumb people getting eaten up by a crocodile . The characters are just like the one dimensional cardboard cut outs you'd expect in a film like this : A cynical cop , a female palaentogolist , a tough game warden and a rich mythological expert who's also a philistine , you'll never guess ( Yawn ) who ends up as dinner and who falls in love ? It could be worse though because at least LAKE PLACID doesn't take itself seriously , but one thing that confused me is why the producers allowed some gore and bad language to creep in pushing the film's certification to a 15 ? This could have easily have been a PG family film
A Product Of Its Era	Lindsay Anderson was very much a European film maker , whereas the likes of David Lean , Ridley Scott and Alan Parker make spectacular movies involving visuel scope Anderson's movie are more about social commentary and subtext , so much so that the message often ends up taking over the entire film whose primary function should be to entertain the audience What you think of IF comes down to what you think of British film makers . I'm very much of the view that cinema should be a universial medium ( The best Brit movie makes are those who try to emulate Hollywood in my opinion ) , if you want to send a message try pony express , and I find the movie dated , pretentious and too set in the 1960s . 1968 was the summer of love and the year of student rebellion in France . You can just imagine every single French leftist worshipping this movie especially the climax . French new wave film makers will also admire the abstract surrealism of some scenes but a mainstream international will dislike it , and many will dislike it intensely
Very Average	This is yet another female friendly TVM though one that stars a relatively well known movie actress in the shape of Anne Archer who plays Theresa Sullivan whose husband is a cop killed in the line of duty . Seeing as it's a chick flick there's several angles the storyline can take Widow whose husband was killed finds some skeletons in cupboard about relationship or Widow whose husband is killed finds herself struggling to make ends meet or Widow whose husband was killed finds out who killed him Any of these premise would have worked as a theme / plot to a film but for some strange reason the producers chose all three as part of the storyline which means this TVM is rather unfocused . Not only that but if there wasn't already enough going on we have a subplot involving a teenage daughter's dislike of her mother's new boyfriend Also keep your ears open for some laughable Noo Yoirk accents
Yuck	This involves two people Richard and Natalie embarking on an illicit affair . Bad enough that Natalie has just got married but the relationship goes beyond adultery since Richard is Natalie's brother . Yup you read that right . If you thought the incest plot from BROOKSIDE was bad you ain't seen nothing yet Stephen Poliakoff judging by his previous work isn't a bad writer but he's written a very poor script here . It's been pointed out that there's no motive / explanation as to why Richard and Natalie have embarked on their incestuous relationship which is a mistake by the writer and is there a poorer subject for an audience than incest ? Alan Rickman is an actor who I can take or leave , he's certainly best cast as cartoonish villains and as Sinclair the husband of Natalie he seems unable to do anything with the role . I also had a serious problem understanding how anyone could fall in love with Sinclair , he's one of those bores you find at every golf club propping up the bar as he tells everyone what a success he's made of his life , but even so I doubt if that would have been enough to drive Natalie into the arms of her loving brother - YUCK . If anyone gives an outstanding performance then it's Clive Owen as Richard , you almost feel sorry for him as he realises the relationship is over but seeing as the relationship is with a blood relative you may as well feel sorry for Adolph Hitler in that case
Is That It ?	The main selling point to this short film is that the score uses the music of Matt Johnson ( AKA The The ) as its soundtrack one of the most under rated British musicians of the late 20th Century . If you want doom , gloom and articulate adjectives on alienation The The is the soundtrack for you , music that makes Pink Floyd and Nirvana sound like The Spice Girls in comparison and which probably contributed to Matt remaining as very much a cult artist . Ironically enough despite singing about emotional and social devastation his fan base is almost entirely composed of the middle class . So much for being able to relate to doom and gloom eh ? Regardless of this I was very interested in what tunes would be used . Perhaps the shockingly poignant Red Cinders In The Sand or the angry Absolute Liberation or the live version of Another Boy Drowning or a dozen other appropriate songs . Unfortunately the score used comes from Film Music a very limited and hard to find release and I can't help thinking the reason it's hard to find might say something about the quality of the music . I have the music on a bootleg CD and I'm thankful I didn't have to spend a single penny on it As for the story itself I'm completely perplexed as to the high rating . Five people have given MUG an average user rating of 9 . 6 which leads to believe all these voters have either worked on MUG or it's the only short film they have seen . The narrative follows a mugger going about his work and considering the shockingly high rating I was expecting more from Gerard Johnson's short film - Much much more but it doesn't deliver any type of smart ending . I had thought perhaps the mugger might have stolen a woman's handbag run in to a quiet dark alley where he's accosted by a bunch of skin heads who upon seeing the handbag jump to the conclusion that he's a homosexual and proceed to give him a bloody good kicking , but we're not even treated to this slightly predictable though painfully ironic ending as the story just fizzles out and led me to whine " Is that it ? " In the summer of 2005 I saw the Homegrown Hollywood series of short films on BBC and must have seen over a hundred shorts . If MUG had been broadcast alongside them I wouldn't have said it was one of the worst but by the same token it wouldn't have stood alongside Brendan Muldowney's shockingly effective masterpiece THE TEN STEPS or the disturbing VIRUS or the quirky and amusing ARTHUR'S AMAZING THINGS as great examples of short film making . MUG is a film that can easily be found on the internet and is available at the official The The website for download and hopefully people can take the opportunity to watch it and then give it a far more appropriate rating on this page
Deadly Dull	As soon as the electronic title music starts you know you're going to be watching a deadly dull 80s film and this is a deadly dull 80s film . Worse it's a deadly dull 80s film with a 70s screen icon ! . I'm unable to emphasise just how much transporting Dirty Harry Callahan to the 1980s fails to work . Pony tailed punks , smack head heavy metal singers , designer suits and padded shoulders , video nasties , and health clubs do not belong in a DIRTY HARRY sequel . But by far the worst aspect to THE DEAD POOL is the extremely boring plot brought to us by a poor script which lacks any wit or quasi fascist subtext . If the producers were stuck for ideas - And I'd be shocked if they were - maybe we could have had a story involving Scorpio's twin brother taking revenge on Harry Callahan . An obvious plot idea perhaps but at least we'd get another memorable performance from Andrew Robinson as a pyscho killer . And I can guarantee Scorpio's brother would be a better shot than the bad guys in this film
Yet Another Stalker Thriller - Yawn	The plot of this TVM revolves around Jeffrey Quint who visits a bar and lets himself get talked into a game of liar's dice by a man called Neil Jones who he has just met and I think the producers might have a problem in getting the audience involved because this set up is difficult to relate to unless you play liar's dice in bars with strange men but I guess all the other plots like being stalked by a policeman who attended to your house after you've been burgled or being stalked by a nanny who looks after your children or being stalked by a flat mate have already been used as plots in films so this only leaves getting stalked by a man you've just met in a bar who plays a game of liar's dice with you as the premise for a story . I've no idea what liar's dice is either As you might expect Jeffrey rants and raves to the police that someone is trying to kill him while he police don't take him seriously and why should they because we see Neil in a variety of disguises bringing flowers to Mrs Quint which is very nice of him . Well it would be if he wasn't a raving psycho . Why can't we see a film where a stalker is just stalking someone because it gives them a hobby ? I'm sure that's the one plot we haven't seen yet
Something I Noticed . . .	. . . About SWEET NOTHING is that all the comments on this page have praised it while 174 voters have only given the movie an average rating of 5 . 0My own opinion is that this is a very flawed movie . Take the opening sequence when we're shown the fate of Angel . Think about that for a moment , as soon as the opening credits stop rolling we know what the ulitimate outcome of Angel's life is going to be so right away there's no surprises for the audience . This sums up what's wrong with the movie - It's badly written and I can give several instances : The voice over : Very distracting and it's not even used as expositionGaps missing : Angel tries the crack pipe for the first time and the story jumps via a caption " Three Years Later " . What ? Angel has been a crack fiend for three years ! Strange that there's been absolutely no consequence of his habit within that time . Very unconvincing Goof : Angel is a former marine but his former marine buddy refers to him as " Soldier " . Former USMC members would would refer to each other as " Marine " not " Soldier " Sorry guys but I didn't think much of SWEET NOTHING . It's badly structured and not very well acted . It does make the accurate point that no one is forced to take drugs but there's umpteen better drug movies out there
It's Not That Bad	This gets an average of 2 . 3 from IMDb users ! I will be be honest and say I didn't think much of BLOODY MURDER but it's by no means the worst horror movie I've seen either hence I didn't make any smart ass comments about the movie's title like BLOODY MURDER TO SIT THRUStrangely enough I thought I'd be watching a self referential SCREAM rip off as the opening credits rolled , the fact that it features some nutter waving a chainsaw and wearing a hockey mask might have had everything to do with it but the script doesn't really play out like that later on . Also early into the film it's revealed that a bunch of horny teenagers are staying at a deserted Summer camp on the river . Oh gee I bet these horny teenagers are going to get sliced and diced one by one in stomach churning and graphic ways but again BLOODY MURDER doesn't really play out the way you're expecting it to and for that I give it some credit for pulling the rug from the audiences feet This might be why many of the comments on this page have slammed the movie - They're expecting very graphic scenes of sex and death and witty post modernism while in effect the movie is far from being graphic , witty or post modernist I gave BLOODY MURDER but then not being much of a horror fan my expectations were limited . Perhaps someone expecting to see a high body count should bare this in mind
An Inferior Role Reversal Of SCUM	As everyone seems to have noted SCRUBBERS seems to be nothing more than SCUM made for a female audience . The structures are very similar ( Hardly surprising since SCUM author Roy Minton co-wrote this ) with a relatively thread bare plot getting in the road of episodic incidents . Even the fact that we see British TV stars like Robbie Coltrane ( More or less unrecognisable in a small role ) , Kathy Burke ( As Waynetta Slob ! ) and Pat Wicks from EASTENDERS ( Before she met Frank Butcher ) make comparisions with SCUM inevitable But when all is said and done this a very poor follow up to SCUM mainly because of three reasons 1 ) The poor acting . Despite being a low budget movie the cast of SCUM at least played their parts with intensity especially Ray Winstone . There's no such acting tour de force here and if memory serves me right much of the acting is plain awful 2 ) There's no real stand out scene as in SCUM that people discuss like the scene in the greenhouse . There are slightly sickening scenes like the puppet show but they're unconvincing and seem written in to shock a blase audience . Mind you could say the same with the greenhouse scene in scum so I don't know if it's a valid criticism 3 ) What is a valid criticism is that there's no great lines to qoute in SCRUBBERS . Try discussing SCUM without saying " Where's yer tool ? " or " I'm the daddy now " or " You want fin ' stripping ? " A needless and inferior follow up to SCUM probably made to cash in on the success of the 1979 film which became a massive hit on video round about the same time
Good Casts Don't Always = Good Movies	LAST ORDERS involves some of Britain's greatest actors playing characters who are taking the ashes of their late friend to be sprinkled off Margate Pier , their friend in question being played by British acting legend Michael Caine Impressed ? I wasn't because there's very little in the way of plot , with much of the story being told in flash back but don't expect anything resembling PULP FICTION or MEMENTO because this is just about as low concept as a movie can get , if you're able to get to the end credits without nodding off you have done very well . Perhaps your idea of extreme sports is watching paint dry ? The more I think about it the more I'm disappointed with it . Look we've got Michael Caine , Helen Mirren , Bob Hoskins and Ray Winstone in the same movie and little happens . Wouldn't have been much better if Hoskins and Mirren were getting bothered by the IRA trying to muscle into their patch so they hire Caine as an assassin who gets jailed for throwing a man off a tower block and he has to pay protection money to Winstone who rules the prison wing . That would have been a great British movie
Who Is Eric Roberts ?	Once upon a time in the mid 1990s I used to write for DOCTOR WHO fanzines and the whole of fandom was holding its breathe about the new American produced DOCTOR WHO TVM . As soon as it was announced that the Doctor's arch enemy the Master was going to be played by Eric Roberts everyone scratched their heads and exclaimed " Who is Eric Roberts ? " . I should point out this was before the IMDB came online when all you had to do was type in a name into this website to their resume , but one helpful soul wrote into a publication I wrote for to explain that Eric Roberts was best known for a role where he starred opposite F Murray Abraham , the film was called BY THE SWORD and was about a fencing school . Actually looking back now Roberts is best known for THE POPE OF GREENWICH VILLAGE and RUNAWAY TRAIN but that didn't stop the person putting the boot into both Roberts and BY THE SWORD and his mind was made up that this American Master with his southern drawl was going to a debacle . Strangely most fans were furious about Roberts playing the Master but after they saw the DOCTOR WHO TVM a great many fans ( Myself among them ) thought Roberts performance was the best thing about the disappointing American production Yeah I'm digressing but BY THE SWORD was a film that I wanted to see simply because it was the first time I'd heard the name of Eric Roberts but I didn't get the chance to see it untill this weekend and I was fairly disappointed with it . I know nothing about fencing ( Everyone else on this page seems duty bound to mention if they fence or not . I don't fence ) so I don't know how accurate it all is , but as mentioned the film feels somewhat anachronistic even if you saw it on its release in 1991 , the hairstyles seem a few years out of date along with its mixed teenage cast doing a little dance routine that makes you wonder if it wouldn't have worked a lot better if it'd had been produced by Jerry Bruckheimer in the mid 1980s . You could argue this would have meant the relationship between Max Suba and Alexander Villard being off centre for most of the film but I wasn't convinced about their love / hate relationship and Abraham and Roberts have given much better performances before and since BY THE SWOR
I Did Have Reservations At The Start . . . .	. . . . because the opening title sequence is very bland . Compare it to the shocking title sequence of the 1960s BBC documentary THE GREAT WAR . As the film goes on we're introduced to the characters and I couldn't help noticing that one is Southern English , a couple are Northern English , a couple are Jocks , a couple are Irish while the sarge is a scouser . I'm sorry but I was convinced that British army infantry regiments of the period were composed of " Pals battalions " , that is battalions composed entirely of men from the same home town . Take for instance the 16th battalion of The Royal Scots which was formed in one week and was called " The Hearts battalion " because it was composed mainly of supporters of Hearts football club . The 16th Royal Scots even had 16 Hearts players in its ranks so I don't believe for a moment that any British army infantry platoon was as regionally mixed as the one here The more THE TRENCH goes on the more I found myself questioning the accuracy of the movie especially its mood and its sense of time and place . A British made trench in France in 1916 . Since when did the Brits build trenches like the one seen here ? It even has a concrete floor that the Germans would have been proud of which seems to go against I've seen in photographic evidence . The film also has an anachronistic cynical air , what on the eve of the Somme ? The British troops had witnessed day upon day of hellish bombardment of the German positions and a lot of British soldiers had begun to feel rather sorry for Jerry , and no one but no one in the British lines had any reason to doubt anything less than a swift , spectacular British victory . Of course one day and 20 , 000 dead British soldiers later changed these thoughts , in fact some historians describe the date 1st of July 1916 " The day British idealism died " . One final point - As at least one other commentator mentioned THE TRENCH contains a large amount of swear words . It has been documented that one criticism by the real life survivors of BAND OF BROTHERS was that the HBO / BBC drama contained too much swearing and that people in the 1940s used far less profane words than people use nowadays . I'm inclined to believe them and I'm also inclined to believe people in 1916 probably swore less than people in the 1940s so I doubt if the men in the trenches used the " F " word in every sentence Unfortunately who German bullets didn't claim on that grim day have been killed by the passing of time so the chances of someone who was there writing into this site and telling us their opinion of THE TRENCH are very remote . A pity because I'd be very interested what they thought of it . As for myself I found the ending moving ( How could it not be ? ) but the rest is rather poor history and a rather poor film that seems to have homo erotic undertones
Story Story Story	Janet Mcteer is from the North east of England . I feel I should point this out because the people there talk with a very recognisable brogue that is in many cases totally unintelligible to the human ear . So the fact that an actress from that region of Britain was Oscar nominated in a role as a trailer trash mom called Mary Jo Walker should tell you how convincing her accent and over all performance is . Kimberly Brown as her daughter Ava is almost as good I thought I'd just mention TUMBLEWEEDS good aspects first then mention that I intensely disliked this movie because it's totally low concept and ignores the three most important rules for writing an entertaining screenplay Rule 1 : StoryRule 2 : Story Rule 3 : Story This movie revolves around Mary Jo moving home with her daughter every time a relationship fails and we're shown a long endless list of talky scenes where nothing much happens all directed in a hyper realistic fly on the wall documentary style by Gavin O Connor . I should be charitable and say that this is no doubt a film that will appeal to moms and that's who it's marketed for which is why I didn't give it a much lower mark . If you're a 38 single male you'll find it an ordeal to sit through . You've been warned
Chaotic Movie ( Geddit ? )	Is it possible that screenwriters can get so bored typing away at a keyboard they decide to write another movie while they're one third way through a screenplay ? This is the impression I got from watching director / writer John Terlesky's GUARDIAN MILD SPOILERS This starts off with a USMC recon mission to Iraq during the 1991 gulf war , then about a third of the way through it changes into something along the lines of NEW JACK CITY , while the final third becomes a supernatural fight between good and evil . I also couldn't help noticing that other films are " paid homage to " , films that have a body jumping demon as in SHOCKER and FALLEN or a leather clad heroine like in THE MATRIX while a secret military mission against natives who believe in supernatural legends owes a little to PREDATOR Despite the unoriginal material and a ending that left me totally confused ( Did Mr Terlesky just get bored writing fight scenes ? ) there is some entertainment to be found in GUARDIAN mainly because the whole feel of the movie keeps switching around thus making it somewhat unpredictable . It's by no means a great movie though
Very Intrusive Direction	This Canadian TVM is based on a real life case where the mounties couldn't get their man due to foul ups and red tape and this led to a child rapist and murderer to carry on with his obscene crimes . This is a TVM with a lot of potential but the script and performances aren't as well developed as they should have been . Despite these flaws the one major problem that did jump out of the screen and grab me by the throat was the direction by Anne Wheeler which is totally inconsistent . Sometimes you feel you're watching a fly on the wall documentary , sometimes you feel you're watching a stage play , but worst of all sometimes you feel you're watching a MTV trailer . Like I said this had potential but everyone in general and the director in particular had to go and ruin it
Pointless	! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The original DEATH WISH was fairly good but soon found itself surpassed in intellect by TAXI DRIVER and entertainment value by THE EXTERMINATOR so it seems somewhat pointless making a sequel to the groundbreaking vigilante drama . The problem with the sequel is that it asks us to suspend our disbelief enough to imagine that Paul Kersey's daughter is gang raped a second time and then brutally murdered . You really have to wonder if anyone is that unlucky , but it gets even dumber , according to this script if you rent a seedy hotel room in a sleazy part of LA you'll have no problem bumping into the scum who raped and murdered your daughter . Must be a very small town ? And apparently if the cops seal off a street a vigilante can still easily turn up at a criminals doorstep to execute him and manage to escape if he fails to do so . I could go on about the ridiculous plot holes but I won't bother . DEATH WISH 3 had even more plot holes but at least it was great entertainment unlike number two in the series . The only entertainment to be had is watching Laurence Fishburne ( Yes that one ) body popping while wearing pink sunglasses
Deadly Dull And Cliched	CONTAINS SPOILERS SPECIES is an extremely dumb and derivative SF horror film . Not only that it's extremely predictable The plot is this : human egg is mixed with alien DNA which leads to the creation of an alien girl , alien girl escapes and a bunch of spook types have to hunt her down because the future of humanity is at stake . Think of a medley megamix of A FOR ANDROMEDA , FRANKENSTEIN , THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT , LIFEFORCE , THE X FILES and a climax that rips off ALIEN and you've got the idea . Or should that be several other folks ideas ? Most of the actors try to do their best with their sketchily written characters , well apart from Michael Madsen who may very well be doing his best , but the more films I see him in the more obvious it becomes that Madsen lacks any range , and he plays a government hitman in SPECIES , oh gee hope I didn't spoil anything for you there . Without doubt the best performance is by Michelle Williams who plays the young Sil and who manages to communicate the fear and suffering the hunted alien must be going through , such a pity she turns into a bimbo non actress . The one really bad thing about this film - with the exception of the dialogue - is the CGI , it really is bad in some places like the tendrils coming out of the young Sil's face , and it never ever rises above being mediocre at best . Still despite its many flaws SPECIES is an absolute masterwork compared to the sequel
The 80s Have Dated	Watching this reminded me of how bad everything was in the mid 1980s . It was bad enough that the cold war was still on when any moment WW3 could have broken out , but to have crap music , crap hairstyles and crap fashion is just too much . Maybe it wouldn't have been so bad if someone had dropped the bomb because then we'd be back to the stone age with better hairstyles , better clothes and - with the exception of Matt Johnson and U2 - cavemen could make better tunes than anyone in SPOILERS As everyone has said CRITTERS is more or less a reworking of GREMLINS . This is something else almost unique to the period when someone comes up with a hit movie then we get a tidal wave of movies apeing the original's style . Yeah I know it still happens today but it's slightly less obvious now . In fact CRITTERS is a rip off from GREMLINS and THE TERMINATOR with the scene where the bounty hunters walk into the diner and start blasting away , I could have sworn I heard " I'll be back " . And am I alone in hating the scene where Steve ( Billy Zane - Yes that one ) is attacked by the critters and April and her brother run out of the barn leaving him to his fate ? Hopefully April will never get another boyfriend ever again if that's how she treats her datesSorry , I think I'm taking this film far too serious
Almost Bearable For Non Wisdom Fans	How could anyone hate the comedy capers of Norman Wisdom ? Me for a start . Just how much mileage is there in a man with an ill fitting suit falling over while screeching " Mr Grimsdale " in a silly voice ? I wouldn't say it was mileage I would say it was inch-age . You have to forgive the unsophisticated slapstick approach of Wisdom comedies because they were produced in a far less sophisticated not to mention less cynical era but I'm never in a forgiving mood where Sir Norman Wisdom is concerned ON THE BEAT is - if not better than most of his comedies - certainly by no means Wisdom's worst comedy . Much of this may be down to the fact that Wisdom plays several roles : Tough , fearless Inspector Pitkin , criminal mastermind Giulio Napolitani and wannabe cop Norman Pitkin . Okay he's hardly going to win an Oscar but at least Wisdom doesn't pratfall about too much , and there is a sequence where Pitkin leads what must be the whole Lodon met on a wild goose chase which is almost charming in a surreal type of way . If we're going to be cynical then we have to ask when Pitkin applies to be a policeman why isn't he given a sarcasm test ? No doubt Wisdom fans ( Yes both of them ) will love this movie while everyone else will merely dislike it
What's Going On ?	I firmly believe that the best Oscar ceremony in recent years was in 2003 for two reasons : 1 ) Host Steve Martin was at his most wittiest : " I saw the teamsters help Michael Moore into the trunk of his limo " and " I'll better not mention the gay mafia in case I wake up with a poodle's head in my bed " 2 ) Surprise winners : No one had Adrien Brody down for best actor ( Genuine applause ) or Roman Polanski for best director ( Genuine jeers and boos ) but they won Last year's award ceremony wasn't too bad but there was little in the way of surprises and I was happy to see RETURN OF THE KING sweep the awards even if it wasn't the best in the trilogy ( FELLOWSHIP was much better ) but what let the BBC coverage down was Jonathan Ross getting a few of his sycophantic mates round and pretending they were hilarious when they were anything but . So when I heard Sky were doing the coverage for British TV I was expecting Barry Norman and Mark Kermode to be doing the links , but instead we ended up with Jamie Theakston and Sharon Osbourne ! Oh gawd if British TV are desperate for film critics ( Obviously they are ) I'm sure both Bob The Moo and Theo Robertson will happily fly over to LA to give their honest opinions on the winners and losers Chris Rock wasn't too bad , but he's no Steve Martin while the location seemed to resemble a sports hall with seats put in ! Not much of a glitzy arena in my opinion . The main problem I had with the ceremony was the format with the " minor " Oscars handed out to the winners who were sitting in their seats ! There's no such thing as a " minor " Oscar and just because the award is for Best Animated Short or Best Costume Design they're as well deserved as Best Picture or Best Director . All the winners should be allowed to march up to the podium . What a bunch of arrogant snobs the Academy are becoming and I quite agree with the comments that this format is disgraceful and if it wasn't for the surprises this could possibly have been the worst ceremony in history . As for the awards themselves Best Supporting Actress - Cate Blanchett . No great surprise for a competitive category Best Supporting Actor - Morgan Freeman . No real complaints since Freeman is one of America's greatest living character actors Best Actor - Jamie Foxx . Most predictable award of the night . Yawn Best Actress - Hilary Swank . Major surprise since everyone thought Annette Benning was going to win simply down to academy politics but Swank did deserve it and gave the best speech of the night Best Director - Clint Eastwood . Major surprise since everyone thought Scorsese was going to get the award simply because he'd never won one . Actually I'm glad about this because if he didn't deserve it for TAXI DRIVER , RAGING BULL or GOODFELLAS he didn't deserve it for THE AVIATOR Best Film - MILLION DOLLAR BABY . Again another major surprise since everyone thought the academy would split the awards for best director and best picture while I thought the Hollywood friendly plot of THE AVIATOR would have made it a dead cert for Best Picture while MDB's controversial subject matter would have turned a lot of voters off What these awards perhaps illustrate is that this year the voters have decided to ignore Oscar politics and genuinely give out awards to people who deserve it something they haven't done in the past , I mean A BEAUTIFUL MIND beating THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING for gawd's sake ! And long may the academy vote with their heads instead of their hearts
Too Serious To Be A Family Film	I see Mindy has given an in depth synopsis of THE GOLDEN SEAL which revolves around a young kid called Eric trying to save a mythical golden seal from greedy hunters . I won't reiterate the plot except to point out how uncomfortable the serious tone of the movie made me feel and there's scenes that shouldn't have been included in something that's marketed as a family movie like Eric being assualted by his father Talking of which Eric's father is played by Steve Railsback an actor who received great acclaim by playing Charles Manson in HELTER SKELTER . Railsback always gives an intense performance and I'm sure you'll remember him as the eponymous Duane Barry in one of the all time great episodes of THE X FILES . Unfortunately he always gives an intense performance whether the role calls for it or not which makes his performance in LIFEFORCE somewhat laughable and he's rather laughable due to his OTT acting in THE GOLDEN SEAL For a family film it doesn't get my seal of approval
Very 1980s	I don't believe the original ROCKY should have won the Oscar for best picture but in themselves the franchise is fairly inoffensive with my favourite one being ROCKY 2 and by far my least favourite being ROCKY 5 . ROCKY IV is very strange because more than any other movie in the series it's the one that has dated the most , it's painfully obvious it carries all the production values of a movie made in the mid 1980s with its MTV feel . Drago gets into the ring and we get a musical montage with the godfather of soul and a bunch of dancing girls . Rocky drives a car and the movie suddenly turns into a not very good pop video where we're shown the highlights of the first three movies . You won't need me to tell you that there's a rather pro American bias to the movie too , not as bad as RAMBO ( Can you guess the connection between John Rambo and Rocky ? ) but still very cheesy in its jingoism There is another problem that I can't quite put my finger on in that despite having a ring of truth about some aspects the movie doesn't develop them very well which gives a slightly ridiculous feel to everything . It's summed up by having one of the fighters train in a high tech gym in America while the other one does cross country running in the austere Siberian tundra . The crazy thing is that it's the American who's training in Siberia while the Soviet is using the American high tech Gym . Can you see what I'm getting at ?
Contains One Memorable Scene	It wouldn't be obvious at the time but the heroine of QUIET AS A NUN is Jemima Shore a character who had her own series in the the early 1980s and was played by Patricia Hodge , whilst here Shore is played by Marie Aitken ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! This ARMCHAIR THRILLER is slightly more memorable than most because of the atmosphere generated that climaxes in a memorable cliffhanger to one of the episodes . Jemima is investigating a catholic run order that has a legend of a nun who was locked into a room in a tower and left to die . Late one night Jemima goes into the tower where the nun supposedly died and sees a nun rocking back and forth in a rocking chair , the nun is aware of Jemima's presence and turns - The nun has no face . Jemima screams and falls down the tower steps A very scary cliffhanger . However Jemima Shore isn't associated with the supernatural genre so anyone expecting ghosts and spirits is going to be very disappointed as it's revealed in SCOOBY DOO tradition that the nun with no face is entirely human and is involved with a scam with her lover
These Boots Were Made For Walking	A lot of people have complained about Timothy Hines version of WAR OF THE WORLDS . Apparently much of the running time is taken up with the lead character walking around England's green and pleasant land during a Martian invasion . Think yourself bloody lucky if you saw that film because it does at least feature an alien invasion , with LEGEND OF THE LOST we don't even have the benefit of an iconic high concept plot , all we have is three people walking around a desert Seriously that's all there is to this movie three people spending 90 % of the running time ( A rather ironic phrase all things considered ) walking to a legendary lost city and the other 10 % walking back again . Seeing as it's a John Wayne vehicle you'd think there might be some objectionable right wing action scenes with The Duke spreading American values by taking on and defeating some angry Arabs in combat , but we don't even have that dubious pleasure . If we had it might have at least have made the journey more exciting . Oh hold on why did I say " more exciting " ? I should have just said " exciting " and left it at that This is a rather boring movie even by the standards of 1957 and is only of note for its colour cinematography by Jack Cardiff and perhaps by the strange ambiguous ending . Apart from that you're probably better off going for a walk in the sun . It can't be any more boring than the walk the characters in this movie experienced Oh I forgot to mention that if Wayne's character in LEGEND OF THE LOST is such an expert of trekking through the desert then why does he do this during the heat of the day ? Any schoolboy will tell you that you go trekking during nightfall
Nowhere Near The Best Anthology Movie	A lot of people have been praising ASYLUM as one of the best horror anthology horror movies they've seen . I must disagree with this popular point of view . It's by no means the worst anthology movie ( The contenders for that accolade are far too many to speak of here ) ever made but it's by no means the best when you compare it to THE HOUSE THAT DRIPPED BLOOD or VAULT OF HORROR . I remember seeing this for the first time as a teenager in the early 1980s and I could remember very , very little about it unlike many of these type of horror films . I guess that should have been a good thing since I watched it on TV last night and couldn't remember the shock twists . After seeing the entire movie again I now know why I could remember little about it - It's so forgettable ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Story 1 ) As in every other movie of this type there's a story about an unhappily married couple which always leads to disaster or in the case here murder . I've never understood why any of the characters don't resort to opening a joint bank account with their spouse then do a runner with their bit on the side . The story itself is rather daft and features a major goof of a hand physicaly shoving Ruth's parceled arm around which is either an editing mistake or a revealing mistake Story 2 ) Peter Cushing is wasted in a walk on part while the story itself is so silly it has to be seen to be believed . DOCTOR WHO was much better at making showroom dummies come to life Story 3 ) The screenwriter of ASYLUM is Robert Bloch who also wrote the original novel of PSYCHO . I knew this before I watched the movie and even if I hadn't I would have been slightly reminded of PSYCHO watching this story . You can work out well in advance how the story endsStory 4 ) Well I do give some credit to Bloch for making the framing story a story in its own right , but again it falls apart when you think about in any great detail , and can anyone name a movie where a character played by Robert Powell survives to the final credits ? Rather disappointing stuff . Four out of Ten
Never Marry Herr Hitler	I couldn't help noticing that many people in the opening credits who made this film had Jewish sounding names . I didn't think too much of it at the time but as SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY progressed I couldn't fail to notice that the villain is softly spoken and is capable of as much charm as he is of flying into extreme rage , listens to teutonic music , is obsessed with regimentation , doesn't smoke and believes in the virtues of a health regime . Did I mention he's got a moustache ? Good job the bad guy isn't called Adolph ' cos that'd be too obvious so the writers give him the non third Reich sounding name of Martin otherwise women everywhere might think it's a good idea marrying someone with all the character traits of Adolph Hitler . Hey wait a minute ! Wasn't Martin Burney Hitler's private secretary ? Despite enjoying the sly not so subtle characterisation of Martin - Which I don't think was coincidental - I didn't enjoy anything else about this film . Despite having an A list female star and the inclusion of sex and bad language this film often resembles one of those TVMs that deals with domestic abuse and is brimming with banality and ridiculous melodramatic coincidences . Come to think of it Martin Burney reminds me more of Dick Dasterdly than Hitler
A Bad Way To Sell Records	This movie was Jerry Bruckheimer's idea to sell some records . No seriously it was . The thinking behind it is that if you made a film full of pop songs you could stick the tracks on a LP , sell it and make even more money for the studio . You could also release a few tracks as singles and intercut the promo video with clips from the movie so that when MTV play a track you're actually getting free advertising for the movie . This is a good business deal but an artistic disaster because many of us still have nightmares about Hollywood movies from the 1980s and I rate the mid 1980s as the poorest time in artistic terms for American film making and FLASHDANCE opened the door to this " Let's make a 90 minute pop video instead of a movie " type film makingJennifer Beals plays Alex Owens a dancer who works as a welder to make ends meet and right away logic disappears with this career choice . Welding is a fairly sophisticated trade , it's not something you walk into and learn in five minutes . There's other gaps in logic like ballet dancing and " flashdancing " being somehow similar . ie if you apply to be a ballet dancer and do some hot , dirty flashdancing the male judges might want to meet you after the audition but you won't get the job . it's kind of like saying that screen writing , novel writing and play writing are somehow the same when they're not But I guess none of this mattered to Jerry when he asked director Adrian Lyne to make the movie . Actually Lyne almost makes a very sexy movie , JenniferBeals is very sweet and innocent looking . Fortunately I sussed out why her face is brightly lit in close up while her silhouette is darkly litin long shots except when the camera cuts to close ups of her heavenly toned body . That's because a body double is used most of the time and frequently the body double is a man ! I bet there's a few naughty boys who are feeling guilty not to mention slightly disgusted to know that
Unoriginal And Unentertaining	How on Earth do I go about reviewing VIRUS ? I thought perhaps I might use some copy and paste reviews of DEEP RISING , THE X FILES and ALIENS but according to IMDb guidelines this isn't allowed so perhaps someone can tell me how screenwriter Chuck Pfarrer got away by stealing other peoples ' plots ? It's the screenplay that's to blame . Didn't the producers notice that this plot has been done to death ? It's amazing how anyone could get away with this at a film pitch and VIRUS remains one of the most unoriginal movies I've seen in a long time which makes for a very predictable and unentertaining film . You know what's going to happen on screen a good few minutes before the wafer thin characters do which means the audience doesn't care about the people or situationsThe directing isn't much better sadly and right from the very opening sequence we're treated to a ridiculous scene where the characters speak in Russian . Considering the characters are Russian this isn't bizarre in itself but what makes it incredibly weird is that subtitles appear when people mention characters names or give chess moves - Subtitles don't appear elsewhere in the dialogue meaning we don't have a clue what the connection between the ship and the space capsule is ! Wouldn't it just have been easier to have them talk in English with Russian accents ? It might not be logical but considering there's no logic to this film it would have been consistent which is more than can be said for the accents in this unentertaining dumb movie
I Never Eat In Cafes	It's often said that a short story is the most difficult thing to write . I agree that's true and that's probably the reason why I've never seen a short film that satisfies me , and I agree with the other reviewer who comments on the fact that DUMPING ELAINE is confused . Why do a young couple keep revisiting the cafe if they've broken up ? And why do the two waitresses seem so interested in them ? Gawd their whole interest in life seems to revolve around this on / off relationship . Why can't people just mind their own business ?
Very Enjoyable Unlike Where I Live	Someone once asked me " What's the inhabitants of the isle of mute called - Mutants ? " " No Corporal " I replied " It's the isle of Bute and they're called Brandanes " But come to think of it when I walk down the streets of Rothesay on the Isle of Bute and see the inbred lumpen underclass drinking on top of empty heads I do think Corporal Williams may have been right . It is the Isle of Mute and the inhabitants are Mutants SLIGHT SPOILERS Anyway you get the drift , I live on an island and I come across mutants all the time so I was going to relate to a film dealing with mutant babies being confined and I wasn't disappointed by what I saw . ISLAND OF THE ALIVE is a very entertaining bad taste horror comedy , maybe not a classic like Peter Jackson's BAD TASTE but still fairly good as the film opens with a woman giving birth in a New York taxi cab and a cop trying to shoot the new born baby , while the next scene features the knowingly stupid line " It took four bullets before it died - That's some baby " , and of course there's scenes of the mutant killer babies ( Done by stop frame animation , none of this CGI rubbish ) going on killing sprees , and I haven't even mentioned Michael Moriarty doing a great Al Bundy impression . I've no idea why people are slagging this movie off , it's supposed to be silly . My only criticism about ISLAND OF THE ALIVE is it slows down in the final third and the expected HUMANOIDS OF THE DEEP ending with the mutant infants emerging from the sea attacking everyone in the city doesn't appear which made the ending a complete anti-climax . And if Larry Cohen is thinking of doing a sequel to ISLAND OF THE ALIVE showing what happened to the mutant youngsters after they've grown up he should come to the Isle Of Bute . He won't need a script , only a camcorder
Wasted Potential	Kathryn Bigelow directs this thriller in a somewhat cold detached manner similar to latter day Kubrick but you stop noticing the directing once you notice the subtext which is very anti-gun . I don't have a problem with that , but the more the story continues the more Oliver Stone ( I take it he was responsible ) decides to hit us over the head with his polemical anti-gun and anti-capitalist views by having the villain as a Wall Street trader . Worse it's a Wall Street trader who seems to resemble Freddy Kruger or The Terminator , so as you can imagine any potential intelligence the premise might have had soon becomes forgotten . The irony is that the ending is so absurdly right wing and over the top not even Michael Winner would have taken it seriously .
What Went Wrong ?	On paper this should have been excellent . We have Robert Aldrich who made some very intelligent , cynical movies like ATTACK , THE DIRTY DOZEN , TOO LATE THE HERO and ULZANA'S RAID directing a novel by acclaimed author Joseph Wambaugh and featuring amongst others notable actors like Louis Gosset Jnr and James Woods before they became well known . But since it was made on celluloid and not on paper that doesn't appear to count for very much THE CHOIRBOYS is a mess . There's little plot to speak off and is so cluttered up with characters that it's impossible to understand where the screenplay is going and of the characters themselves they're very unlikable . Since the characters are amoral policeman I thought perhaps someone had the idea of making this as a precursor to HILL STREET BLUES and I guess somewhere along the line that's what the intention was , of an off beat black comedy but the writing , directing and acting is so heavy handed it's like watching a very bad adult version of POLICE ACADEMY with only the sequence of a man taking his pink poodle in the park coming close to raising a smile Did I start this review by asking what went wrong ? After seeing the movie in its entirety I feel I now have to ask did anything go right ?
Netfarce More Like	When this TVM was made in 1999 I was still somewhat ignorant of the internet . Certainly I'd heard of it but being something of a Luddite I failed to see why more and more people were becoming interested in it and it wasn't until August 2001 that I become connected to the world wide web . One thing I did notice about NETFORCE is that if I remained ignorant about the internet this TVM wouldn't have appeared so bad to me ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! One thing that really irritated me is how the writers seem to have confused computer technology with an all encompassing thing called " the internet " . For example the bad guys are able to gain access to the security systems of a maximum security prison via the internet . What you mean the computerised door locking system must connected to the internet in some way ? We see umpteen examples of this ridiculous thinking that because something is computerised it must be connected to the internet in someway ! No . No . No . Computerised systems and the internet are not the one and the same . For example if the internet collapsed tomorrow computers would still work even if it means you can't send emails or write reviews at the IMDb . I could still use my computer as a word processor or play computer games etc the world wouldn't suddenly revert to the stone age because the internet failed There's also several other blunders which led me to believe that the writers are nowhere near as being smart as their audience . If a computer hacker is deleting his system this can be jammed by sticking a floppy disk in the hard drive ! What a floppy disk ? It's never explained why this stops the system being deleted , perhaps the good guys were carrying a back up copy of the villains system ? We're also told to believe that some real hot internet systems can't be traced because they don't use cookies ! As for the VR sex - WTF ! There's also a ridiculous aspect to the team known as " Netforce " . Each member is a computer wizard and a crack secret agent . In effect they're a combination of a computer geek and a Delta Force member . Is this logical or realistic ? Why does a member have to be both a computer expert AND an elite law enforcement agent ? Why can't the organisation employ computer wizards to track down rogue computer operators and then send a crack team of commandos to round up the bad guys ? The whole feel of this TVM screams " TV pilot " and I don't believe for a moment that Tom Clancey and co didn't toy with the idea that this would end up as a long running series but the flaws are instantly obvious . There's only a certain amount of plots in any genre and this techno thriller lasting three hours has used up all potential plots in one go . Be honest , just how long could you tolerate Scott Bakula as an action hero who spends 50 % of an episode typing on a computer , 40 % of an episode flirting with his female colleague and 10 % of an episode shooting bad guys ?
I'm Not Recommending It	Two old men sitting on a park bench . I don't really have a problem with this scene - Only problem is that it's not a scene it's the entire movieYup movies don't get anymore low concept than this . They also don't get anymore boring than this either , but there's worse to come because these two old men are chalk and cheese . One is Nat Moyer who is Yiddish communist while the other is Midge Carter a former golden gloves champion who's also black . Let me see now , a Jew and a black man sitting on a park bench getting along fine . Well I guess it's possible though unlikely , but if this film has such an inoffensive scenario why play up to the Jewish stereotype ? Why make them loud tribilistic rabble rousers who take hebrew oaths ? Slightly ironic that the Jews seen at the start of the movie are exactly the type of Jews seen in Nazi propaganda films in the 1930sStereotypes aside moi dearz the problem with I'M NOT RAPPAPORT is that it's written for an entirely different meduim than cinema , it's based on a stage play and it shows . Walter Matthau sleepwalks through his role as Nat while this commentator almost slept through the whole movie
Something Of A turn Off Because Of Its Content	too noticed a somewhat anti male subtext from Linda Carvalho's previous short film EVER AFTER and while it was somewhat flawed it was at least somewhat entertaining in my opinion . I'm afraid I can't really say the same about TOUCHED which deals with the very serious subject of domestic abuse Young lawyer Menna is assaulted by her partner Thomas and the story is told is through flashback and voiced over conversation that Menna is having with her counsellor . My fellow reviewer Bob has mentioned that much of this short fails because of Sara Hunter's performance but the impression I got was that the actress is miscast , I couldn't take her seriously as a lawyer because she comes as a girl about town . I could certainly believe that she was a professional career woman , just not a lawyer . I do feel that it's Carvalho's script that's the problem , especially the narrative . For example Menna gets a phone call saying she's got to be in court in 30 minutes , she looks into the mirror and sees her bruised and battered face looking back . I was compelled to know what happened when she turned up in court looking like this but this is never followed up in anyway , and watching a woman being constantly slapped is in no way entertaining for myself or most men so as a story or as entertainment TOUCHED has failed
Hardly A Disney Classic	Seeing as it's Easter the Tv companies in Britain have been showing several Disney films of which SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON is one . To be honest this far from being a Disney classic , yeah it's a family adventure ( Literally ) but doesn't have the impact of 20 , 000 LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA . This down mainly to two reasons 1 ) The episodic nature . There's the threat of pirates throughout the movie but they don't appear towards the end so we're treated to superflous scenes of the family building tree houses etc . What this movie needed more than anything is danger rather than wish fufillment 2 ) Francis the irritating kid with the whining American accent . Oh dear lord actors should never appear with animals or children and audiences shouldn't have to suffer them either . It's not often that I see a film where a child is in danger from a tiger and I found myself cheering for the tiger It's not the worst Disney movie I've ever seen , it does star John Mills who always give a good performance and it probably done pretty well at the box office at least compared to recent Disney mega-flops like THE LADYKILLERS and THE ALAMO
Interesting In One Aspect	Lets not kid ourselves , Big John Wayne didn't do this as a war film he did it as a western . Look at the actors here they're far too old to be elite combat troops , they're all Victor McLaglen wannabees but without the talent . If they'd cast totem poles they wouldn't have been as wooden as this cast . The dialogue is straight out of a very bad B western - " That packs our pistol " - and the battle scenes are a parody of an indian attack . Watch the scene where the injuns are attacking the fort , oopps sorry I mean where the VC are overrunning the American base , Injun music suddenly appears on the soundtrack as the VC raise the North Vietnamese flag . When someone told big John the VC were reds he must have thought they were redskins . You got a better explanation ? Despite this atrocity of film making THE GREEN BERETS does have one bizarre aspect that makes it compelling . George Beckworth undergoes a character arc . 10 years later we'd see the same type of formula character arc take place in THE DEER HUNTER , PLATOON etc . The important difference here is that Beckworth starts off as a liberal opposed to American intervention but ends up being so pro war he mans a mortar team . Compare this to the story narrative of APOCALYPSE NOW . No doubt Colonel Kilgore went on to become a peace campaigner and flower arranger
Pulls Its Punches	The thing that struck me about this TVM were the two leads . Delta Burke looks like Monica Lewinsky's older sister while Ryan Merriman looks like David Duchovny's kid brother . It's uncanny it really is . The problem I had with this issues based TVM is that it pulls its punches . Jack doesn't actually come across as the twisted tortured youth that lyricists like Roger Waters or Matt Johnson write about , nor does he make a convincing mother beating thug . And being a TVM you just know it won't be ending in a graphic and senseless murder And there seems to be an element of people coming onto this IMDB site in order to give a DANGEROUS CHILD . Almost a quarter of people who voted for it gave it a ten . It's by no means the worst TVM ever but it's not LORD OF THE RINGS either . I gave it a
Not A Truly Good Film	Oh dear . I'm probably going to upset a lot of middle class middle aged woman by confessing I didn't like this movie at all for several reasons1 ) I have a very low tolerance level on middle class metropolitan characters in movies . I am by no means a Maoist but I find it difficult to relate to middle class women who have friends with children who can play a cello 2 ) There's a limit on how many times I can watch a character weeping in one movie . If I hadn't disliked her so much I would have worried about Nina losing so much salt from her body due to the amount of tears she cried3 ) It was bad enough when the movie was drowning in sentiment ( The amount of tears from Nina would have drowned the movie anyway ) but then the movie has a plot twist featuring Alan Rickman's character which made TRULY MADLY DEEPLY silly more than anything else 4 ) This doesn't feel like a cinematic movie . It feels more like a play produced for television which isn't surprising since director Anthony Minghella started out in the theatre then moved onto script editing jobs in television There are one or two good points . Despite playing annoying characters the cast do a fairly good job , and there are some touching moments like the scene where where we think Nina and Sandy are alone : " Nina you're beautiful " " Who's beautiful ? " Only to find out they're surrounded by friends of Nina come to do up the house , though unfortunately as I said the film's attempts to touch the audience this way quickly becomes overkill . This movie also deserves some credit of only costing 700 , 000 dollars a sum it made into a profit several times over to become the most successful British production that year , so thanks for keeping the British film industry going But at the end of the day TRULY MADLY DEEPLY is a mawkish chick flick and will probably only be remembered as Anthony Minghella's debut as director
The Clichés Are Badly Executed - Snigger	A man who takes the law into his own hands after someone has committed an unforgivable crime against an innocent victim is a cliché and it's this cliché that Sly Stallone plays in LOCK UP . Does anyone know any different words for " cliché " ? because I'll be using that word an awful lot in this review . No ? Oh dear Sly plays a character called Frank Leone who finds himself being transferred by a maximum security hellhole ( cliché ) run by a sadistic warder ( cliché ) . Despite it being the worst place imaginable in the dialogue the system itself isn't so bad because inmates are allowed to service cars ( cliché and plot point ) and receive contraband and many of the inmates are really good guys ( cliché and plot point ) . In fact there's only a couple of really sadistic inmates ( cliché ) who have it in for Frank and considering Frank's composed of solid muscle you'd think they'd hit on much softer targets but I guess scary big men using weaker inmates as their sex slaves would have been rather clichéd and predictable . Still that hasn't stopped the producers using every other cliché in the book This is very predictable and fairly grim from an entertainment point of view . Stallone never was a great actor and fails to convince as Frank . Worse still not even the great Donald Sutherland seems able to do anything with his role and despite using real life inmates for crowd scenes they come across as just a bunch of extras from a central casting agency which shows you how bad a film LOCK UP really is
Not Really A Nigel Kneale Script	I knew the studio politics before I saw SEASON OF THE WITCH . That is I knew that the producers had decided to release a film every year under the Halloween banner that had absolutely zero to do with Michael Myers so there was no disappointment on my part that this wasn't a stalk and slash sequel . What disappointed me was the credits reading " Written by Tommy Lee Wallace " when I knew fine well who wrote the screenplay . However after seeing the movie I could see that Kneale's contribution had been diluted to death and that's why he wanted his name removed ! ! ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! It's easy to see what parts of the plot belong firmly to Kneale , namely the central story of Stonehenge being used to destroy the children of America ( Similar to QUATERMASS ) and of a sinister factory being used for a covert invasion ( Similar to QUATERMASS 2 ) along with concepts welding the supernatural and science together . Unfortunately the rest of the script lacks Kneale's strength of painting strong characters and making memorable dialogue . Worse the script shows signs of being so written to death someone has forgotten to explain why the bad guy is planning to kill all the children on Halloween , or at least that's how it seems on first glance The producers deserve some credit on trying to do something different to a movie franchise , but it's obviously a failed experiment . If only they'd let Nigel Kneale do his own thing
Too Mythical	FAMILY revolves around the Cutlers , a family of gangsters from the mythical old school . Well it's not so much mythical but cliched as we're shown a mild mannered old geezer who runs the family and his two sons who want to move up in the business . It's somewhat strange watching ambitious criminals running protection rackets . Didn't it cross their minds that a better way of making money would be to get school kids hooked on crack cocaine ? Of course not since they belong to the old school which means " We don't hurt women or kids , we keep to our own , it's business etc etc " As the previous commentator said it does feel like FAMILY is trying to be a little too much like the British version of THE SOPRANOS but did anyone notice the subplot of the daughter Jacquelene not being allowed a boyfriend otherwise her nasty brother would be taking a knife to her lover ? I'm not sure how this subplot developed but since it also appeared in SCARFACE I guess the producers thought it might have been a good idea to include it . The show ends with a vague hint that there might be a second series but since the first series included every cliche in the book I doubt if there's ideas left for the show to continue
Somewhat Confused	Maryam arrives in the UK as an illegal immigrant then tries to claim asylum in this confused short film . I say confused because I have a large amount of difficulty in what it's trying to say to the audience . Certainly we are supposed to be on the side of Maryam and there's no way anyone is going to confuse this with having a " Little Englander " agenda , it's just that if it's to be viewed as polemical statement it fails to a large extent I have to point out to readers overseas that asylum and illegal immigration are the hottest hot potatoes in British politics . When NON PEOPLE was made a year ago tabloid headlines were screaming about the number of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers being granted leave to stay in this country and the British home office meekly bleated that being signatories to the 1951 UN convention on refugees and EU human rights law they couldn't deport refugees back to their country of origin if there was the slightest danger they'd face either the death penalty or inhuman treatment even if their application for asylum had been turned down . This is the political context that NON PEOPLE is set in To be fair the drama does point out that Maryam is given a council house house and a £40 ( About 70 dollars ) allowance by the state which while accurate is different from what all the do gooders say about the way asylum seekers are treated by the British state . It's this honesty from director / writer / producer Elena Karathanassi which confuses the drama because later on we're shown something dishonest where Maryam has her application for asylum turned down ( The application takes a ridiculously short time . Normally this process takes many months and often several years ) and finds herself living on the streets with absolutely no money . In real life even if Maryam's application had been turned down she'd still have been given residency and benefits paid for by the British taxpayer I can't say I was impressed by NON PEOPLE . It's confused since it says illegal immigrants are badly treated AND well treated by the British state and the technical aspects are hardly outstanding either , though perhaps the murky cinematography is an attempt to make the story look like a fly on the wall documentary . The one stand out aspect is the performance of Bita Taghani as Maryam and I'm slightly surprised that this is her sole appearance in anything
Is This A Drinks Commercial ?	Dave who is a former cop and former drunk takes his wife on a fishing trip and sees a plane crash and rescues a young girl from a watery grave which sets up the plot Did I mention Dave is a a former cop and former drunk ? Good because this might be important apart from Dave being a former drunk . In fact the director and the screenwriter thinks it's so important that Dave used to have a drink problem they drown the audience with a subtext involving alcohol . Umpteen scenes take place in bars even when it's not all that necessary to the plot while nearly every scene not featuring a bar involves characters drinking or referring to alcohol and all the scenes look like they're shot ala booze commercial . Bar scenes look like beer commercials , office scenes look like bourbon commercials and scenes shot on boats off the coast look like rum commercials . I don't know if I'm reading too much into this but since the message that Dave is a former alcoholic is hammered home it drew this reviewer's attention to the number of scenes featuring drink The problem with HEAVEN'S PRISONERS is not only the amount of scenes that seemingly promote drink it's the number of scenes in general . This is a screenplay that needed streamlined in the first draft since nothing much really happens in the first place and when they do they don't really progress the plot very much . Of course it's a character driven story but it's also film noir in nature and the film noir genre isn't known for it's character development so when a character is introduced we know who they are and there's no need to go over the same ground to explain who they are . This is a movie that last for well over two hours when in fact chopping off a good 45 minutes would have been a very good thing . No doubt Baldwin , Roberts and Hatcher had high hopes with this movie improving their careers but it's a damp squib for all involved
A Pig's Ear	I wasn't expecting much from this conclusion to the two part Dalek story but even then this was a very disappointing episode . It get's off to a bad start with Tennant degenerating in to his overblown mockney voice . He's had a season and a half to perfect his performance and he's still bloody irritating But it's Raynor's script that is to blame for Evolution Of The Daleks being one of the worst Dalek stories to be broadcast . The whole narrative suffers from half baked ideas and plot holes . Is it ever revealed why the Daleks are converting humans in to pig creatures ? I know the Daleks have used humanoid slaves before like Ogrons so why no do it again instead of kidnapping humans who will be missed ? Why didn't Dalek Cann neutralize the human Daleks until after they'd destroyed the two Daleks ? Why give the human Daleks ray guns capable of destroying Daleks when firearms would have been just as effective ? etc So instead of a coherent and compelling story we've got an empty and shallow runaround story paying " homage " to other stories like Genesis Of The Daleks and Evil Of The Daleks . Even James Strong directing is awful in places such as " the gossiping Daleks " in the sewers or the pig men in the lift . But to be fair even Martin Scorsese himself would have a problem making this Dalek story a classic of DOCTOR WHO
I Preferred The Sequel	I really enjoyed THE SPY WHO SHAGGED ME . It was the first film in the series I saw which may possibly explain why I enjoyed the original a lot less . THE SPY WHO SHAGGED ME cuts to the chase very quickly while AUSTIN POWERS : INTERNATIONAL MAN OF MYSTERY is held by the very obvious and necessary need to explain who the eponymous hero is . Of course it's silly to criticise the other aspects like " Oh there's no Fat Bastard in this movie etc " because it's my own fault for watching the franchise in the wrong order I can't help thinking however that the jokes are somewhat weaker here . I watched the movie on Sunday night and I'm having some difficulty in trying to remember the gags . There's two that stick out in my mind , one is the scene with Dr Evil's cat which will upset cat lovers everywhere ( I laughed out loud at this scene ) and the other is a visual gag that stands out in its unoriginality of a man walking about naked thatI first saw done in THE BENNY HILL SHOW thirty years ago and has been done to death since then Not a bad effort from Mike Myers but my gut instinct is that THE SPY WHO SHAGGED ME is the funniest movie in the series
Oh Good , A Film Where The IRA Are Bad Guys . . . .	. . . . . . Oh hold on they're not the peace loving pacifists of the provisional IRA they're a mad mental IRA splinter group that this film is at pains to point out have nothing to do with the " nice terrorists " who murdered over 1800 people in the 70s 80s and 90s . To be fair to the film adaption of PATRIOT GAMES the source novel suffers even worse from this objectionable point where the bad guys are not the IRA but a distinct breakaway organisation called the Ulster Liberation Army . But this is still a naive film . As far as I know the SAS don't go around illegally wiping out terrorist training camps ( If only they did ) and once again we see an IRA terrorist played by an uberhunk . This happens with disturbing regularity in movies : Sean Bean , Pierce Brosnan , Richard Gere , Brad Pitt all have played Irish terrorists . Listen next time someone makes a film about the IRA ( Which I hope will be never ) can we see a short balding actor like Danny Devito or Joe Pesci take on the role ? Politics aside I still don't think much of PATRIOT GAMES . It's just one of those average generic revenge thrillers that doesn't have to feature IRA terrorists , or terrorists of any ilk . If the hero was walking past a bank and stopped an armed robbery , or walked past a drugs bust and shot one of the drug dealers you could have a film with more or less the same plot and structure - and a lot more credibility Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel . It's also a poor excuse of an action film
Didn't Think Much Of It . . .	First time I saw it and didn't think much of it now I first saw this in the mid 1970s as a child . I was from the last generation of British children who had a common interest in the second world war . I used to like buying war comics like Battle and Commando and used to love watching all those B & W war movies , but I was disappointed with THE McKENZIE BREAK first time I saw it probably because the plot mainly involved British guards going into a prison compound , getting beaten back by the German prisoners - Repeat every 15 minutes After seeing it again recently I do realise that my memories are somewhat simplistic but that doesn't mean the film has suddenly improved in my eyes . If I have to be brutally honest then I have to say it has diminished further . Since I first saw this movie I have seen many similar movies like BRIDGE ON THE RIVER KWAI , THE GREAT ESCAPE etc films that are either more dramatic or more entertaining than this one , that's probably the problem with TMB it's rather serious in its tone without being compellingly dramatic and the one subplot that I found interesting during its recent broadcast of one of the prisoners being a suspected homosexual by his Nazi peers is rather unexplored There's a couple of other things that stuck out in my mind about this movie and not in a good way . One thing was when a character mentions that a couple of prisoners escaped and made it into the Irish free State . As every schoolboy from my generation knows not one single German prisoner held in allied captivity escaped back to Germany . I know it's not implicitly stated that these two escapees made it back to Germany but it's unlikely they'd be interned in Ireland . Secondly I couldn't help noticing a large German contingent were wearing Wermacht uniforms . Where would they have been captured and why go to all the trouble of keeping them in a Scottish POW camp ? Wouldn't they have been kept in the same region they were captured ? A very average film that will only appeal to people interested in men standing on roofs singing Nazi marching songs
I wasn't Blown Away	When you mention the name Cecil B . DeMille you realise right away you're not going to watching social realism you're going to be watching action , adventure and above all spectacle , and REAP THE WILD WIND gets off to everything you're expecting , a shipwreck in glorious technicolor . Okay there's an anachronism or two with a rescue ship being commanded by a fine Southern lady , but this is Hollywood and Cecil B Demille can do whatever he wants . Unfortunately after this very bright start it becomes more and more obvious that Demille isn't doing very much since much of the ( in ) action is taking place in a house . Where's this giant squid I heard about ? When you mention the name John Wayne you realise right away you're not going to be watching some pansy ass debating society you're going to be watching action , adventure and fists flying , this is Hollywood and The Duke can punch whoever he likes . Unfortunately it becomes obvious that this was made early in Wayne's career and his character isn't the main focus of the story . This isn't too bad since I've never liked John Wayne's one dimensional performances but again no matter who the star of the movie is there's far too much talk and not enough action . Where's this giant squid I heard about ?
Perhaps Too Cluttered With Too Many Characters	I have to be honest and confess that I'm not a Robert Altman fan . His movies suffer from being cluttered with too many characters having their own sub stories which detract from the narrative COOKIE'S FORTUNE can be used as a good example . For the first half hour of the movie we're introduced to the characters of a small deep south town called Holly Springs , yes that's right a film that lasts two hours wastes quarter of its running time on umpteen different characters . After this has taken place an event happens which sets up the main plot of where a black man is blamed for something he didn't do and if you're able to stay awake at this point you're doing well Did I mention this was a comedy ? I thought I have to mention it since some people might be confused that this might be some type of hard hitting drama like IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT and the movie continues in the same type of unlikely manner of blackly comical characterisation and plot twists . But if you like Altman you'll probably like this movie . I don't much and I didn't much
Flogging A Cloned Horse	A lot of people were bitterly disappointed by ALIEN 3 because there wasn't enough action . Personally I liked that movie though not as much as I liked ALIENS and seeing as ALIEN 3 performed badly with cinema goers and critics the studio has decided that RESURRECTION will be an action fest similar to ALIENS . Unfortunately they made a mess of it ! ! ! ! ! SPOILER TO ALIEN 3 ! ! ! ! ! First of all did they have to bring Ripley back ? She was seen plunging to her death in ALIEN 3 and by a totally unconvincing plot device involving cloning she's back . There's another problem with this and that's her character has been altered , she's no longer capable of showing much in the way of sympathy as in the previous two sequels and therefore the audience find it hard to sympathies with her William Gibson wrote a script for ALIEN 3 set on a space station dealing with modified aliens and space commies but was eventually turned down because there was little substance to the story which was basically just a series of action set pieces . RESURRECTION involves a space station where space villains battle modified aliens . The first half is set up to introduce the wafer thin characters while the second half is a non stop auctioneer featuring set pieces of humans against aliens . I was just wondering why Gibson's ALIEN 3 script wasn't good enough to be produced this rather similar script was ? I guess it's all down to box office considerations . Unfortunately by trying to make money at the box office the studio have ruined the franchise with this movie I haven't seen ALIEN VS PREDATORS yet and to be honest have little inclination to , but ALIEN RESURRECTION is by far the worst of the first four ALIEN movies I've seen
Time To Say Goodbye Baby	Despite enjoying the sequel more than the original I thought GOLDMEMBER was the weakest in the Austin Powers trilogy possibly due to the air of entire self indulgence that runs throughout the movie . This is personified by the appearance of Michael Caine as Nigel Powers . You can just imagine Caine picking up the script and reading : " Nigel is surrounded by four sexy skimpliy dressed bimbos in knee length boots " and Caine thinking " Well I grew up in absolute poverty and fought in The Korean war so what have I to feel guilty about " In other words the cast are in serious danger of enjoying themselves far more than the audience and you do get the feeling the film is more for the people who worked on it rather than the worldwide audience Take the highly intrusive self referential pre title sequence cameo appearances . How does the film benefit from this ? It doesn't . Likewise there's some clumsy continuity from Jay Roach . For example Austin is in the villains base and chase's after the villain , the only thing is the base is crawling with the villain's henchmen and at no point do they interact with what's going on . I should also confess that having seen this movie several days ago only one funny sequence sticks in my mind . One where Austin grabs the wrong end of the stick involving Mini Me while there's several scenes that stick in my mind because they're painfully unfunny like the subtitles and the joke that was recycled from the previous movie . Watching GOLDMEMBER isn't quite a painful cinematic experience but certainly the producers could have come up with something far better . Hopefully this will be the last ( And it's certainly the least ) in the Austin Powers franchise
Less Opera Please - We're British	I haven't seen the classic 1925 version or the 1943 version , in fact the only version I've seen of PHANTOM OF THE OPERA is this 1962 very British film . I say " very British " because not only is the action transferred to London but their seems to be a little Englander mentality of sticking two fingers up at the pretentious European crap that is opera . ( ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ) The scene I enjoyed most is when the arrogant glum singers are doing their rendition - And how good their rendition is I have no idea , it's probably crap since it's about a French heroine - of Joan Of Arc . Drop curtain . Raise curtain and international opera star Maria stands there as Joan . She opens her mouth and a sound similar to chalk being scraped against a blackboard rises throughout the theatre . Oh gawd she's singing , then stops as she sees the screen to her side ripping . She stands petrified and suddenly makes an even higher pitched wailing as a stagehand swings into view hanging from a rope . Scene fades out . Next scene fades up to reveal that Joan Of Arc has been canceled while Maria has left Britain never to return . The implication that being a foreigner Maria scares too easily because she lacks moral fibreAnd I'm probably not having to read between the lines too much to think that this film was made by xenophobic philistines . Well thank goodness for that because I'd hate to see Hammer produce a film dealing with art and internationalism . That said however I can't say THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA to be one of the better Hammer films despite its witty jingoism . It does feature future DOCTOR WHO star Patrick Troughton in a small role as a rat catcher but apart from that here's not much else to hold the interest
Not Too Impressed . Know What I Mean ?	After reading all the glowing praise about this remake of 12 ANGRY MEN I sat down hoping to see a reinterpretation of a classic film , but it's more or less the same script filmed in colour with a different cast . No doubt one way of looking at it is that the original Reginald Rose script hasn't been destroyed by radical rewriting but like the remakes of THE GETAWAY and PSYCHO it seems a waste of time making something that's almost the exact same as the original shot for shot . The producers do deserve some credit for making the rabid reactionary racist a black muslim thereby saving the viewer from some patronizing PC garbage but at the end of the day the original movie didn't need remaking and this TVM proves it
Hardly A Classic But Not Awful Either	Pop Svengali Marty Starr is in a little bit of trouble with shady American Bruce whose son has ambitions to be a pop star so Marty decides the best way to keep his kneecaps is to come up with a get rich quick scheme BRING ME THE HEAD OF MAVIS DAVIS has few fans and while it's not exactly consistently laugh out loud it's by the same token not a truly terrible British comedy , I did see THE WEDDING TACKLE the previous night so I know what an abysmal comedy from this small island looks like believe me Much of criticism may have to do with the casting of Rik Mayall as Marty , as everyone is keen to point out his character is very similar to Alan B'stard from THE NEW STATEMAN but dissimilar enough to make you notice that Marty is very much an inferior comic character to that of the Tory MP but any deficiencies are made up by the supporting cast especially Jane Horrocks and Marc Warren The script by Craig Strachen is slightly uneven containing mainly moments that are fairly predictable but one or two bits are very funny . Perhaps the script can be summed up where Marty goes to buy some drugs from a rent boy where the audience are one step ahead of the script ( You can guess what's gonna happen next ) but contains a misunderstanding at the police station where Marty's cell mate starts to pull his trousers downOften predictable , sometimes amusing and there's worst movies I've seen this week that were made in Britain
Very Cliched And Dated	As a child I used to love all those old war movies set during the second world war but as I grew older I grew to dislike them . The majority of WW2 war films are American of course with a subjectively American point of view ie the Yanks won the war single handed . Not surprisingly two WW2 war films I still love today are DAS BOOT and CROSS OF IRON both of which are German productions . WHERE EAGLES DARE is a British film but suffers from many of the faults as its American counterpartsThe screenplay was written by the late Alistair MacLean at a time when even his shopping lists would be produced into blockbusters . MacLean was a schoolteacher by trade but was famous for his meticulous research into the subjects he wrote about which makes WHERE EAGLES DARE doubly disappointing : The Germans / Nazis are portrayed as being cruel and very stupid , they're also very easy to kill because unlike the British and American characters they find it impossible to shoot straight . In fact it's totally ridiculous the way Eastwood's character is able to fire two machine guns at once and throw back the Germans grenades without getting a scratch . In truth the Germans were very efficent on the battlefield while being very cruel off it . Maybe I'm a bit hard on the movie since it's not really a war film but a spy story set during the war , a bit like a James Bond film where Anton Differing is Blofeld . It's also interesting to see Richard Burton play a very similar character to Bond since he was once a candidate to play Fleming's character and if his performance here is anyhing to go by he might have outdone Connery as a sadistic assassin but probably would have been less convincing as a sophisticated womaniser . There's also a brilliant twist where it looks like Smith isn't who he claims to be but this is the only moment of brilliance in a film with cliched portrayals of Germans and rather poor production values ( Check out the myriad of scenes featuring some painfully obvious back projection ) which won't appeal to an audience in 2003
It's Not That Bad	! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Yeah okay INTERCEPTORS isn't a great film , but I don't think it's as bad as many of the people on this page are saying . Yes it's highly derivative with some severe gaps in logic but it's also fairly entertaining in a dumb sort of way . Check out the opening scene with Sean Lambert ( Strange name for a Frenchman ) kickboxing . You know that scene in MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL where John Cleese rescues the damsel in distress by massacaring the wedding guests ? Well we see something similar here It should also be remembered that the same company made the abysmal SHARK HUNTER and unlike that film the money for this seems to have been spent wisely . The movie is well lit and the FX are passable , though it's painfully obvious the alien is a CGI effect , but at least the alien is a truly ugly critter that made my flesh crawl . It should also be pointed out that this is a film that's not scared to kill off its main characters . I thought at least Jena Goodwin - And I've got to disagree with Michael Corleone 2002 , Jena is hot - would survive untill the end of the movie so it came as a complete shock when the alien pulled out a blaster and fried the poor girl . I give this . Check out SHARK HUNTER if you want to see a really bad movie by this company
Kill That Glass Scumbag	If THE GLASS HOUSE had concentrated on the angst of Ruby Baker a sixteen year old girl orphaned in a car crash this might have been a better film , but the themes of parental loss and being an outsider aren't as intensively explored as they could have been , instead we're treated to a ludicurous thriller that feels extremely retro and would have possibly worked better if it was produced ten years earlier when " The person from hell " type movies were all the rage . Having said that THE GLASS HOUSE wasn't the worst movie I'd seen all week and it would have a poorer movie if it wasn't for Stellan Skarsgard as scumbag Terry Glass . It would have been easy for Skarsgard to overplay his role but he gives a subdued performance which is very effective
I Liked It The First Time . But . . .	I saw this movie when it came out on video many years ago and enjoyed it immensely , so immensely I looked forward to seeing it again which I did a couple of years later . However I didn't enjoy it so much the second time and every subsequent time I saw it I enjoyed it less and less . I've now seen it 7 or 8 times and now I hate HIGHLANDER . One problem is the era it was made . With very few exceptions ( A good one is PLATOON ) films from the mid 1980s lack substance , they're basically eye candy . Look at the scenes that were memorable when you first saw this in the 1980s , they're like something out of a cola commercial or a pop video and you won't have to look up the director's resume to find out that's where he started . It should also be pointed out that Peter Jackson has changed the whole face of fantasy cinema with his vision of LORD OF THE RINGS , no longer can a critic tolerate camp fantasy , everything must be breath taking and deadly serious . I've also can't help noticing with repeated viewing that that the ethnocentric portrayal of Highland Scots is grossly insulting , no one but no one says things like " Heavens mon , ah peed my kilt " . Actually this probably the film's worst aspect - The dialogue . It's stilted , unconvincing , cheesy and often so ridiculous it wouldn't look out of place in a comic strip . Perhaps that's why there's so many periods in this movie where no one says anything ? the audience are being spared further torture . And the terrible dialouge isn't helped by the fact that the star can't speak English as a first language in the first placeHIGHLANDER was good at the time but the time to move on has long passed
Not Really What I Expected	I've got to be honest and say I know very little about Oscar Wilde . I just know he was an Irish born playwrite , was a master at the bitchy putdown and was imprisoned for homosexual activity which left me with the impression I was going to be watching a movie featuring a married man who is cheating on his loving trusting wife with another manThis isn't the actual plot to AN IDEAL HUSBAND , but I could see a sort of hatred towards women . This of course isn't a uniquely homosexual thing ( Consider the lyrics of hetrosexual song writers like Matt Johnson and Roger Waters for example ) but the women in this story seem to be portrayed as being a barrier towards men finding happiness with the idea that once a man marries he can kiss goodbye to carefree times . I'm actually having a problem believing that Wilde was ever gay since he sums up the male / female relationship perfectlyAs for the cast the non English actors do put on convincing English accents though the performances are a little stagey while the directing is rather flat and isn't helped by the fact there's several long fades to black between scenes giving this cinematic movie a made for television feel
British And Not Very Proud Of It	This a British film attempting to pretend to everyone and fooling no one that it's a big budget Hollywood movie . It starts with a couple of Las Vegas cops with laughably bad American accents getting a report of a disturbance . Cut to some stock footage of Vegas with the cop car stopping beside a sidewalk that was obviously filmed inside a studio . Every expense has been spared with BATTLE BENEATH THE EARTH . Despite being set in the 1960s all the American troops have firearms and wear kit from the second world war while those nasty Chinese commies have death rays that are obviously flash lights , and in order to save on importing Chinese actors we have caucasians playing oriental villains . Why couldn't they have employed Burt Kwouk ( Kato from THE PINK PANTHER movies ) I ask myself ? There is some enjoyment to be had from BATTLE BENEATH THE EARTH since it's one of those " So bad it's good " type films complete with absolutely ridiculous scenes that defy logic such as GIs ' being able to defuse atomic bombs and people managing to outrun the blast from a nuclear explosion
Where's Dave ?	I didn't have any idea what THE CICERONES was going to be about before watching it but after seeing it I can only describe this short film as " LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN Go To A Slavonic Country " An English art lover travels abroad during the inter-war years and visits a cathedral that is inhabited by an assortment of weird characters . Can you see the parallels ? When I say the art critic is played by Mark Gatiss you can't help but be reminded of the cult BBC comedy and the only thing missing is the guy done up like a black minstrel wondering where Dave is I wouldn't go as far as saying THE CICERONES will only appeal to LEAGUE OF GENTLEMAN fans but Bob misses the point . If he was a regular viewer of the cult BBC comedy he would have noticed the structure and atmosphere is identical to LEAGUE . Thankfully Gatiss and co aren't a one trick pony but this is fairly disappointing short film
Where's Doyle ?	This film claims to be about the SAS but is nothing more than a boring generic action adventure / thriller that's inferior to THE PROFESSIONALS . If you haven't seen THE PROFESSIONALS let me explain it was an excellent late 70s British adventure series about a government organisation called CI5 taking on terrorists and other dangerous scumbags . Martin Shaw played the brooding sensitive macho man ( Doyle ) and Lewis Collins played the smooth macho man ( Bodie ) . In fact WDW doesn't actually feel anything other than an episode of THE PROFESSIONALS , Collins plays the same character in both , the script feels like an overlong episode from the show , it needn't have featured the SAS at all it could easily have been CI5 coming to the rescue , so for a film starring the world's greatest army regiment the SAS seem redundant . If you want to learn about the SAS and be thrilled at the same time read BRAVO TWO ZERO by Andy McNab or watch the adaption starring Sean Bean
The Cult Of Russell T Davies	I see that Russell T Davies is fast becoming the TV scriptwriting icon of the 21st century with shows like QUEER AS FOLK , DOCTOR WHO and this version of CASANOVA on his resume and being a massive fan of DOCTOR WHO this is the reason I watched . Don't you know that David Tennant is playing the legendary timelord on television next year ? Alas Davies is no Nigel Kneale and much of his reputation is hyped . Can anyone remember that pile of crap in the 1990s by Davies featuring bonking vicars ? A self contained soap that was so bad very few ITV regions showed it and the ones that did usually transmitted it about 1 am . QUEER AS FOLK was controversial but that was due to explicit gay sex scenes and DOCTOR WHO was a broadcasting legend and despite the high production values one thing is becoming clear in the new series - RTD is the weakest writer on the new show With CASANOVA we see the faults and gimmicks of RTD's writing style ( A ) it relies on unexplained plot devices and ( B ) it's self conscious . An example on the first point happens when Casanova and his cell mate escape onto the roof of a prison then the scene cuts to the ageing Casanova relating of how he left Venice and then cuts to the younger Casanova in France . At no time is it ever revealed how Casanova and his cell mate managed to make it off the roof of the prison . The way Davies has structured the narrative allows him to escape from tight corners with little explanation and this happens a few times with CASANOVA . As for the second point there's scenes where young Casanova has the idea of starting a lottery and comes up with lines like " You've got to be in it to win it " and " It could be you " post modernist dialogue that will be instantly recognisable for a 21st century British audience but makes the viewer realise that they're watching a television comedy drama that was written in the 21st century . His work on DOCTOR WHO also suffers slightly from this CASANOVA is watchable enough as entertainment but because it doesn't take itself at all seriously it's impossible for the viewer to take seriously as well . I also notice that over 60 % of the registered voters have awarded this show ! What ? They think this is the greatest thing in the history of television ? I believe Mr Davies has far more friends than talent
Too Effective	I hate bug movies . I saw that one from the mid 70s with the fire raising roaches starring Bradford Dillman and that was enough to put me off the genre for life , and the only reason I watched THEY NEST is because there was absolutely nothing else on . The film starts off very well with a hook that may have come from the best episodes of THE X-FILES , the acting was far from grade Z as you might expect and there was humour too , but as soon as the roaches came to the fore that was enough to make my skin crawl and I had to turn off the TV during the dinner scene with Ben and Nell . I suppose if like these types of films you'll enjoy THEY NEST but I'm far too sensitive
I've Seen Better	I caught this on channel 4 very late , or very early considering how you think of 2 . 40 am and discovered that it was another Creature Feature movie production . I knew what to expect - Slightly corny and old fashioned B movie values but one that at the very least would be watchable , and I did enjoy the previous effort SHE CREATURE . After the credits rolled I did feel disappointed . HOW TO MAKE A MONSTER while not being a bad horror movie made for television it remains a ratherflawed one The story suffers from a lack of originality and stereotypical characters . A trio of software designers are told there's a million dollars reward if they come up with the ultimate computer game . The trio are a funky black dude , an uber-geek and a sociopath . Since there's a danger of industrial espionage there's special security measures that causes a lock down on the software laboratories . Doesn't this sound contrived ? And I think you know where this is heading . So the trio , an intern and a company director find them selves trapped in a building in a plot that isn't a million miles removed from ALIEN , HARDWARE or THE LAWNMOWER MAN . Unforgivably it becomes very obvious early on who's going to die and who's going to survive meaning there's no surprises for the audience Like most of the other movies by this company there is a comic book charm to the proceedings in that the gore doesn't overwhelm the story , I notice that several people have complained about the laughable make up and effects but surely this is done on purpose by the makers ? Despite having a TVM budget it's relatively well made , but would have been better if the script wasn't so predictable . As it stands if you're going to watch only one Creature Feature watch SHE CREATUR
Try This At Home . It's Perfect	! ! ! ! POSSIBLE SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! I do concede there is a market for romantic comedies , quirky road movies and independant features and I admit that I can take or leave any of these genres but I wasn't too impressed with JUMP TOMORROW which iis an amalgam of all three genres . I did give it a chance and was slightly taken with the line dancing sequence but my interest waned towards the end so much that I found myself turning off the sound of the TV and playing music which is something I often do when I'm bored . So there I was listening to a compilation tape of The The while watching the TV with the sound turned off and just as JUMP TOMORROW reached its end the The The 1982 track Perfect started and I can't hammer home enough how this song goes perfectly ( ! ) with the finale of JUMP TOMORROW . Try this at home , play Perfect by The The so that the track matches the last three minutes of JUMP TOMORROW where the Nigerian man and the latino girl are in the booth overlooking the massive waterfalls . It's uncanny It's been mentioned that if you listen to Pink Floyd's Dark Side Of The Moon while watching THE WIZARD OF OZ the lyrics match what's on screen . I don't know if that's true or not but Perfect and the final minutes of JUMP TOMORROW do go together
Very Familiar Horror / SF Story	One reason horror movies aren't well regarded amongst critics is down to the fact that in order for the plot to work the characters have to do stupid things like wander around a dark woodland knowing fine well that people have disappeared in that location . In other words logic flies out the window . One other reason for the low regard of this genre is that plots have been done to death and the horror film has lost its lustre down to really rank repetition . SILENT WARNINGS is a case in point As soon as the characters are introduced I let out a very audible sigh . We're introduced to the staple diet of American horror movies - horny teenagers . This a diet that's been dished out to audiences for over 30 years and anyone who once had an appetite for this type of movie must now surely be suffering from a cinematic eating disorder . However at least the story does have some originality in that it doesn't rip off HALLOWEEN . Instead it rips off a couple of other horror / sci-fi classics . Can you guess what they are ? I'll give you a clue . One of them also featured crop circles in a cornfield and starred Mel Gibson while the other is a 1967 Hammer horror movie based on a 1957 BBC play by Nigel Kneale . Even the the title of conjures up images of the Gibson movie and I guess that's why this movie isn't called WARNING SIGNS I will be somewhat merciful in this review and take into account that this is a very cheap direct to DVD film shot in Bulgaria . At least the director has picked a location that resembles the American Mid West . Strange to think that both Stephen Baldwin and Billy Zane were once relatively well known prolific actors but I can't recall the last time either appeared in a fairly successful movie and I doubt if SILENT WARNINGS made any casting directors sit up and take notice . The rest of the cast are alright in rather clichéd roles and if you're in to horror or SF movies then you may find this movie a harmless enough time waster
Let Down By Near The Knuckle Humour	ZOG is an acronym for the ultra right wing theory that all the governments in the world are being manipulated by a Jewish conspiracy . ZOG itself stands for Zionist Occupation Government so when the aliens in this animated short were from the planet Zog the name stuck in my mind , and when the first humans to be taken over by the Zog aliens were members of the Klu Klux Klan I fell out of my seat laughing . This must be surely a reference to conspiracy theorists following their own despicable racist oddball agenda I thought , how very witty . For the most part INTOLERANCE 2 THE INVASION is a very witty animated short film that follows the same basic premise of INVASION OF THE PUPPET MASTERS and QUATERMASS 2 of aliens infiltrating the human race , or more specifically centres of authority like the police and the government and it's left to everyman hero Dwight Hokum to save humanity from the Zog invasion force This would have been a very enjoyable animated short if it wasn't for the point that Bob has mentioned - The humour spoils this short . I mentioned the reference to ZOG but after seeing this I ended up thinking that this type of biting satire must surely be coincidental since the humour is very unsophisticated , schoolboyish and near the knuckle . In fact I would go further than say the pathetic attempts at humour not only spoils the story but ruins it . There's nothing worse than someone thinking they're funny when they're just pathetic
Left Me Cold	! ! ! ! CONTAINS POSSIBLE SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ! Though I'm not much of a SF fan I really like the speculative fiction genre where an ecological disaster befalls humanity , a great example being John Christopher's haunting 1956 novel THE DEATH OF GRASS which was turned into the 1970 film NO BLADE OF GRASS . ICE however isn't up to much . The idea of solar flares causing a new ice age to envelope the northern hemisphere just doesn't ring true . Neither does the fact that the captain of the Submarine works out that Doctor Kesseler's group are not who they say they are but still allows them on his ship . Obviously the screenwriter doesn't understand this type of survivalist genre where human nature descends into its most primitive and barbaric . Despite being an extremely unpleasant film THE CRAZIES manages to convey the horror of killing in order to survive life threatening circumstances as does NO BLADE OF GRASS . Here ICE ends on they all lived happily ever after as the survivors sail on the sub to a new life in a warmer climate where no doubt the natives will welcome them with open arms . Seeing as this TVM has the feel of a pilot I'm glad it didn't get commisioned as a series
The Most Unlikely Coincidences Ever Seen On Film	SPOILERS - AND NO I'M NOT MAKING THEM UP Michael , a drifter , comes across someone who thinks he's a hitman and pays Michael a large sum of money to murder his wife's lover , but Michael decides he's going to take the money and run . So Michael's driving away from town and accidentally runs a man down . It's at this point I wish to plead to the reader to believe me because this actually happens in the movie , the man Michael ran down is the person Michael is supposed to kill , but being a decent man ( Remember he's a drifter , not a hitman and he ran the person down by accident ) he drives his victim to hospital where it's revealed the victim was shot twice in the stomach before getting run down . The police are called and when the sherrif arrives Michael recognises him as the man who paid him to do the hit . So the sherrif takes Michael out to the desert to shut him up forever but Michael escapes and nearly gets run down by a passing motorist who it turns out is the real hitman , who makes an off the cuff comment about Michael being " One lucky son of a bitch " Considering all this takes place in the first 30 minutes of RED ROCK WEST I'd have thought Michael must be the most unlucky SOB ever to have appeared on celluloid . Think about it As you can imagine RED ROCK WEST takes some swallowing , too much in my humble opinion , to work as a classic thriller . It is enteraining though mainly down to the silly plot twists and it also has a good cast . In fact you've got to admire the actors for all keeping straight faces because if I appeared in this I'd be killing myself laughing at all the unlikely coincidences
Don't Believe The Hype	When THE YOUNG AMERICANS was released it was marketed as a cool , tough British thriller . But after watching it the reality is that it's average at best and is disappointing in many ways , especially its casting , Harvey Keitel as a tough NY cop , Keith Allen as a violent London gangster , wow get ready for some on screen fireworks ! Or rather don't because these two characters become sidelined halfway through and Chris O'Neill becomes the film's focus . In truth THE YOUNG AMERICANS is more of a drama with some subtle political comment about the Americanisation of Britain rather than a tough action thriller as it was marketed
Watchable Enough . . .	. . . But the plot is wearing thin Since HALLOWEEN 3 : SEASON OF THE WITCH has absolutely nothing to do with the franchise this is regarded as the second sequel of the franchise started by John Carpenter's 1978 movie . To be honest there's not much milage to make a franchise since the plot of every film revolves around Dr Loomis saying something like " I spent ten years trying to cure the child then the rest of my life trying to kill him " , nobody believing him and all the cynics and horny teenagers getting killed I will confess that HALLOWEEN 4 : THE RETURN OF MICHAEL MYERS is fairly watchable even for someone like myself who isn't obbsessed with the horror genre . I think perhaps that it's not too dissimilar to THE TERMINATOR might have something to do with this , but it's still miles better than JEEPERS CREEPER . Even the rubbish acting scenes like Danielle Harris trying to look upset at the playground taunts and Donald Pleasence screaming " NOOOOO NOOOOO NOOOOO " at the shock ending have some entertainment value
Rather Mythical And Disappointing Biography	Even today the name Erwin Rommel conjures up visions of a superlative soldier and a complex man . In short Field Marshal Erwin Rommel was an enigma , a member of the Nazi party and an admirer of Hitler but who fought the cleanest campaign of the war in North Africa . Compare the conduct of both sides in that particular conflict then compare it to say the Eastern front or the Pacific campaign . As BAND OF BROTHERS shows it wasn't uncommon for either side to execute prisoners even if practical necessity wasn't involved So Rommel was respected as both a soldier and a human being but THE DESERT FOX is a disappointment . It's a Hollywood movie that was made just six years after the end of the war so in some places the producers don't want to praise the subject matter too much which is understandable because an American audience wouldn't like a movie where the lead character has contemptible views of American servicemen after soundly beating them at The Kasserine Pass . But at other points in the movie Rommel is seen praising Hitler while describing other senior party members as " Murderers " ! There thankfully seems to be historical context to all this . Yes Erwin Rommel was an admirer of Hitler because Hitler solved many economic problems like hyper inflation and massive unemployment when he came to power in 1933 so for a German to admire Hitler in those days was the norm however objectionable this may seem with hindsight . Unfortunately once the war ended instantly revisionist opinions amongst the surviving Germans came to the fore where they bleated that they despised Hitler and the Nazis and their genocidal policies and we see this in umpteen movies like DAS BOOT , CROSS OF IRON and THE EAGLE HAS LANDED , so much so that you'd think that there was only a handful of Nazis in Germany from 1933-45 , so at least this movie deserves some credit for putting things into perspective However once again bad history and factual errors creep in as Rommel is recruited into the plot to assassinate Hitler . Rommel may have been asked to take part in the plot to overthrow Hitler but this movie over states the case . Worse it also paints Gerd Von Rundstedt ( Possibly the Wehrmacht's greatest leader ) as knowing about the assassination plot against Hitler but casually refusing to take part . Despite being no fan of Hitler or his murderous stooges Von Rundstedt was as shocked and as disgusted as the most loyal party member upon hearing of the bombing of Hitler's headquarters so it's highly unlikely he'd have had prior knowledge of the assassination plot . The ending is somewhat moving as Rommel is arrested and led away on charges of treason but perhaps the most poignant thing is that in real life Rommel was as innocent as nearly every other person murdered by the Nazis since he took no part in the plot . The story goes that immediately after the plot Rommel's staff started criticising the fact that it would have been better if the plot had suceeded hence Rommel was falsely suspected being one of the ringleaders which sealed his fate THE DESERT FOX : THE STORY OF ROMMEL is a very disappointing movie on one of the 20th Centuries most respected military leaders . It fails to show his life prior to 1941 when he ironically fought against the Italians in the first world war , of how he made his reputation as a military commander against the French in 1940 and how during the Normandy landings he and Von Rundstedt argued as to how best to use the panzer defences ( As Anzio showed naval firepower would wreak havoc on units close to the shoreline so Von Rundstedt was probably right ) but the movie shoots itself in the foot even more by including stuff that isn't correct and a film that I once enjoyed seeing as a child is now spoiled for me
A Precursor To OCEAN'S ELEVEN ? . . . .	. . . . Well that's what I thought THE IMMORTALS was going to be like in the opening scene with Eric Roberts character telling his cohorts that he wants them to take part in a heist . Roberts is certainly cool enough to have easily fitted into the recent remake of the rat pack movie , but unfortunately he's best known for cable and straight to video movies and the problem with THE IMMORTALS is that it has all the production values of a straight to video movie , especially the script which feels like it was written by screenwriters who've been watching Tarantino movies a bit too often . The plot twists and turns as you'd expect from Tarantino but the plot does so in an underdeveloped silly way instead of being smart and funny which I take was the original intention
I Had A Problem With The Casting	The thing you have to realise with John Le Carre is that he's not Ian Fleming , he's a writer similar in many ways to Graham Greene , his novels are human dramas dressed up as spy stories in order push forward the idea that people will always be caught up in circumstances beyond their control . If you go into a Le Carre novel expecting dialogue like " No Mister Bond I expect you to die " and seeing the hero defuse a thermo nuclear device in the nick of time you may receive some shocking disappointmentHave I made the point that THE TAILOR OF PANAMA isn't a James Bond story ? Good because someone thought it be a great idea to cast Pierce Brosnan as an MI6 secret agent and open the movie in the MI6 headquarters just like the opening sequence of THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH . This must been seen as a dual failure because everybody in the audience who loves Bond movie will be deeply disappointed not to see Brosnan racing around on the Thames trying to capture a fully armed bimbo on a speed boat while Bond haters won't be able to look at this film as anything other than a slow paced entry into the Bond series . For this film to work it's imperitive that no one associated with playing spies should have been cast in the role of Andy Osnard but that's exactly what the producers have done , So when we hear Osnard say lines like " Oh I'd f her " the whole illusion falls apart Secondly this might sound unlikely but I thought Geoffry Rush was rather poor Harry Pendel the eponymous tailor . Pendel isn't Jewish by chance ? Ah a stereotypical Jewish tailor maybe this is why Rush plays the role in much the same way Topol would have , in fact I was expecting Harry to burst out singing " If I were a rich man " , yeah never mind the quality moi dearz , feel the width
Is It A True Story ?	Hey get this , a FATAL ATTRACTION clone ! How original . No doubt if us men watch enough of these films we'll empathise with women who've been stalked in real life . I don't think so . This is how HER DEADLY RIVAL plays for the most part . Hunky married man keeps getting horny phone calls from a secret admirer then when he rejects her suggestions she gets angry . But there's a final twist at the end as to the identity of the stalker which is very hard to swallow . It's even harder to swallow when we're told that this is based on a true story because I don't recall reading about this case in the newspapers , and make no mistake if the events in HER DEADLY RIVAL did happen it would have made front page headlines all over the world
Extremely Dated FX	This film isn't up to much . The central plot involves a village idiot who is used in a medical experiment which increases his intelligence and gives him psychic powers which he uses for revenge . The most annoying thing about THE LAWNMOWER MAN is the really crap FX which probably weren't all that good in 1992 but are truly awful 10 years later . A lot of people criticised the unconvincing burning man CGI in EVENT HORIZON but there's a scene of a man burning to death here which is totally unbelievable containing some of the worst computer animation I have ever seen . Likewise the scenes of people disintegrating into bubbles . Bad movie . Bad FX .
What Was Missing Is More Important Than What Was Included	I have to worry about these channel 4 list shows . They seem to be produced at an alarming rate while there doesn't seem to be any genre left for a 100 GREATEST list show anymore . Can we please now bury these schedule fillers ? As with all the other 100 GREATEST shows I found myself agreeing with some of the listings while passionately disagreeing with most of what was included . There were some heartwarming moments where films received the recognition they deserved such as the criminally underrated CROSS OF IRON at 37 which I rate as the greatest war movie set during the second world war ( Though the reviewer David Aaronovitch shows he has no idea what he's talking about when he describes the villain as " A Nazi officer " Schell's villain is clearly stated as being a Prussian aristocrat opposed to egalitarian Nazi ideals ) , and we see a couple of very deserved top ten placings for ZULU ( 8 ) and A BRIDGE TOO FAR ( 7 ) but much of the problem with this chart is what qualifies as a " war film " I mean at number 100 we have FIRST BLOOD . Is John Rambo shooting up a redneck town a war movie ? If that's classed as a war movie then why not include DOG SOLDIERS or 28 DAYS LATER ( The soundtrack for 28DL is played between segments ) since they have battle scenes with soldiers , and are movies like TROY and BRAVEHEART war films ? But it's what wasn't included that made my heart sink . Thankfully we didn't get garbage like THE GREEN BERETS , PEARL HARBOR and OBJECTIVE BURMA but the list was missing well regarded - Well regarded by prolific critics at least - movies like THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN , DER UNTERGANG , TOO LATE THE HERO , LOST COMMAND , THE BLUE MAX and SAVIOR . Perhaps the most ridiculous non inclusion is J'ACCUSE ! a movie that was filmed during the first world war that used real French soldiers as extras many of whom were later killed in battle . Are we to use this list as a definitive survey as to what the greatest war movies ever made are ? Of course not and you do get the impression that a great number of people voted for the last war film they saw . As for the top five they were : 1 ) SAVING PRIVATE RYAN 2 ) APOCALYPSE NOW 3 ) THE GREAT ESCAPE 4 ) SCHINDLER'S LIST 5 ) FULL METAL JACKET I've always thought SPR was very overrated and is so well regarded due to Spielberg's technical achievements in the first 20 minutes and last 15 minutes of the movie but most of the story is composed of Uncle Sam winning the second world war single handed . Mind you it's amazing to see channel 4 conduct a 100 GREATEST list that wasn't won by THE SIMPSONS
Is Harlan Ellison Being Ironic ?	If the name Harlan Ellison doesn't mean anything to you let me point out that he is one of the most respected science fiction authors of the 20th century . Ellison also wrote a couple of episodes of the original OUTER LIMITS series in the early 60s which James Cameron seemed to have borrowed for THE TERMINATOR . In fact Cameron borrowed so heavily that Ellison won a succesful court battle for plagerism and latter prints of THE TERMINATOR acknowledge the works of Harlan Ellison . Seeing as Ellison co wrote this screenplay you wonder if Harold Robbins didn't think about doing something similar at one point ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! This screenplay has Harold Robbins ugly signature written all over it . It's a melodramatic pot boiler along the lines of THE CARPET BAGGERS set in the movie world . The story opens at the Oscars where Frankie Fane is rubbing his hands in anticipation of getting his hands on the academy award for best actor . The story then flashes back to Frankie's younger days and for the rest of the movie we're shown he's an amoral manipulative S . O . B from the mean streets . In a rather contrived manner we're shown how he got into movies ( His knife skills served him well ) then once he got his foot in the door he walked all over everybody , he exploited everybody , he used everybody to make it to the top of the movie world . Duh isn't that how everyone makes it Hollywood ? I think Tom Hanks and a few other people may be genuinely nice human beings but can you say that about most players and movers in Hollywood ? So it seems rather rich Frankie Fane should be condemned for exploiting people And there's a confusing morality message to all this . All the way through the movie we're wanting to see Frankie fall on his face which happens in the end since the best actor Oscar goes to Frank Sinatra , but think about it , Frankie is an amoral shark , he's no scruples and he'basically a ruthless thug but he's become a major movie star , he has lots and lots of money and there's no certainty that he will never win an Oscar in the future . Is this actually the fate you would want to see happen to a movie villain ? If having a movie career as a film star with loads of cash in the bank and an Oscar nomination is failure I'd sure like to how success is defined ? I suppose it's open to conjecture if Mr Sinatra invited Frankie to the after show party where he was never seen again but I'd better not comment on that in case I wake up with a horse's head in my bed THE OSCAR isn't all bad despite it being a bad movie . It's one of those movies that has a watchable quality mainly down to its schlock value . If you like Harold Robbins novels you'll like this though perhaps fans of Harlan Ellison's work should stick with THE TERMINATOR
Generic Action Movie Done As A Western . Perhaps	I don't know if you can describe the plot of THE PROFESSIONALS as versatile but it can certainly be described as generic . Someone's wife is kidnapped by bad guys so the husband pays four tough gringos to get her back . This plot could easily have been set in the 21st century with the heroes traveling to the Central American rain forest or even the deserts of Iraq to hunt down the kidnappers and save the damsal in distress . The movie even touches upon politics with Marvin and Lancaster's characters discussing good guys and bad guys : " Only thing is does anyone know who the good guys are ? " , but since it's a western format everything soon settles down to being a straight forward action adventure with the gringos taking on both bandits and idealistic revolutionaries . Fans of both westerns and action movies will certainly enjoy it . I was entertained myself but I kept getting the feeling the movie wanted to make political statements somewhere down the line and bottled out at the last minute which does give the movie a slightly confused feel , but maybe I'm reading too much into it
Too Tarantino	When GET SHORTY was released in 1995 all the critics were expecting the movie to clean up at that years Oscar ceremony and there was a collective gasp when the film didn't recieve a single nod . After seeing the film for the first time tonight I'm somewhat suprised what all the fuss was in the first placeGET SHORTY is by no means a bad film in my opinion but nor is it Oscar worthy material either . The problem I have is that it lacks an identity of its own . From Travolta's smooth gangster to the pastel coloured lettering in the title credits this has " Tarantino wannabe " written all over it . I mean look at the scene of the funky black geezer ( I guess Samuel L Jackson turned the part down with the fear of type casting ? ) walks through the airport terminal , it's like the opening scene of JACKIE BROWN . And being similar to Tarantino we have to put up with people getting blown away in a darkly comical manner and insults like " I've seen better film on teeth motherfer " Okay it's certainly watchable but tell me is this a darkly comic thriller or is it a satire on Hollywood ? If it's the former then stop ripping Tarantino's overrated style and if it's the latter then someone should have employed Robert Altman as director which would have led to certain Oscar recognition
This Is Family Entertainment ?	In script terms this is just a big budget cliffhanger serial from the 1930s except for one important difference - Sadistic violence . Villains are burned , shot , crushed , melted and blown up . Okay so most of them are comic book Nazis so that makes it okay I guess . Even so I do think the violence is way over the top especially the bit where the blood splashes all the over the plane . And correct me If I'm wrong but isn't the legendary scene where Indie shoots the Arab swordsman been ripped off from THE BENNY HILL SHOW ?
My Tall Slim Jewish Lesbian Wedding	Guys I've got to confess that my motivation for watching this movie was not for the purest of reasons . I'd seen the photo of Jennifer Westfeldt on her IMDb profile page and thought she was very pretty . So pretty in fact that I was looking forward to seeing her take part in some girl on girl action in KISSING JESSICA STIEN so imagine my disappointment that there's no explicit lesbian love making in this movie . I shouldn't complain since this type of voyeurism should exclude someone from being a serious movie critic so I'll confine my criticisms to a non sexual criteria KISSING JESSICA STIEN is an independent film and like many independent films it's quirky and character driven but it's maybe a bit too character driven and has little in the way of commercial appeal . Seeing as the thin plot revolves around a Jewish twenty something single girl embarking on a bi-curious relationship with another girl there's not much world wide appeal though you do get the feeling that the screenwriters ( Who are also the stars ) are going all out to appeal to fans of FRIENDS . Likewise you also get the feeling they're trying too hard to appeal to women in general hence the amount of girlie chat scenes . In other words the movie is centered towards woman in general and because they're trying too hard the film fails because of this . If you're a hetrosexual man and ironically a gay woman you'll probably dislike KISSING JESSICA STIEN
Bruckheimer Steps On The Gas	i can imagine a slightly bored Jerry Bruckheimer was sitting in his LA office one day listening to a CD collection of happening funky tunes " hmmm " jerry says to himself " These tunes are kind of funky . So funky in fact I think I'll produce a movie around some sounds " . Next thing Jerry does is get on the phone to tell everyone he's making another two hour MTV cinema releaseYup it's another Summer block buster from Jerry to give bored teenagers something to look at as they guzzle their popcorn . I will be honest though and say at least Bruckheimer and co tried to make a movie that's a cut above the not too disimilar FAST AND FURIOUS and DRIVEN . The cast featuring such names as Cage , Duvall and Eccleston do their best with their wafer thin characters ( Imagine if we had Bruce Willis , Ediie Murphy and Ben Affleck instead - OMG ) and the central plot of a race against time to steal 50 cars probably looked good on paper but as you might expect GONE IN 60 SECONDS is all about style over substance with a pumping soundtrack . I should alsao point out that no matter the technical worth of this film ( And the technical aspects are actually good ) it doesn't disguise the fact that there's only a limited amount of screen time you can award to car chases before everything becomes boring
Silly B Movie Without A Shred Of Logic	It's not just Hollywood that is interested in making a fast buck , even the British aren't immune . FIRST MAN INTO SPACE is a rather cynical excersise in remaking a superior story , namely THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT , while pretending that it's an American film by casting a couple of American actors while cutting to a sign saying " Welcome To The American State Of . . . " at every opportunity . So ignore the tagline of " The first motion picture to lift the veil of the first man in history to be rocketed into the terrifying unknown of outer space " because Nigel Kneale captured this concept several years earlier . It should also be pointed out that New Mexico where much of the story is set has a lack of vast forests as seen here The real problem however is that there's a serious lack of internal logic . By this I mean you'll be entirely puzzled as to the monster's motive for killing people . For example a couple of highway cops see a car driving erratically , so they stop the car and find a dead female driver and a man mutated into a monster who then kills the cops . Ask yourself this : How would a crazed bloodthirsty monster be able to drive a car ? Perhaps more importantly why would a driver stop to pick up a crazed blood thirsty monster in the first place ? It also becomes more puzzling that this monster is able to articulate its motives when the script demands it at the end of the film . None of this makes much sense Of course this is a problem with a great number of horror films where in order to follow horror convention so that someone gets killed every 15 minutes people do things that are totally unrealistic and you could argue that if someone is pointing out these faults then they're taking this film far too seriously . Maybe . But there are also some horror films that compelling and thought provoking and FIRST MAN INTO SPACE isn't one of them
Guys It's Not Meant To Be Serious	Some people take both life and cinema far too seriously . Look at STRIPTEASE for example . The opening scene takes place in a court where Erin Grant is fighting for custody of her child against her husband Darell who has a serious problem with drugs . The judge decides that because Erin is unemployed pill popping Darell should get the kid ! Erin realises that the only way to get the kid back is if she gets a job as a stripper at The Eager Beaver nightclub and on her first night there she blows away the opposition . Got that a woman who has never stripped before is miles better than than the old pros who have been doing their dance routine for years . In fact she's so good Congressman Dilbeck feels duty bound to save her from a punter by hitting a drunken punter over the head with a champagne bottle . Hmm so you've got a senior politician who frequents The Eager Beaver nightclub which obviously doesn't harm his career prospects and assaults a fellow patron andnobody calls the press ! That's just the start of the movie ( And it gets more and more incredible as it goes along as if you hadn't noticed ) but people come on to this site to say what a terrible movie it is ! Thanks for pointing this out but it's not actually supposed to be a great movie is it ? It's done tongue in cheek with Burt Reynolds giving a career worst performance as Congressman Dilbeck . This alone would have made it watchable enough without Demi Moore flashing her silicon enhanced breasts around at every opportunity . If you think this is a serious movie then perhaps Ving Rhames role as Shad is a knowingly ironic character : " No it's a f - - kin ' shrimp . Course it's a roach " which is a clever way of explaining to the less clued up audience members that it's not a shrimp , a roach or a turkey - It's a tongue in cheek movie
Good Cast In Very Average Film	Nicolas Cage , Helen Hunt and Samuel L Jackson in a film from the 1990s ! Must be good I thought . Well actually KISS OF DEATH is not all that good , it's by no means bad it's just that the three afore mentioned stars were well known at the time but weren't stars yet . The film was made around the same time as David Caruso was trying to break into films and is really a star vehicle for him . Helen Hunt is fairly effective for the short screentime she gets , Samuel L Jackson is just okay but Nicolas Cage is far too over the top to be taken seriously and will never make a convincing screen villain which is why you'll never see him play a baddy these days . As for Caruso . . . well can anyone name anything he's been in apart from NYPD BLUES or JADE ? Bottom line is KISS OF DEATH is a mediocre remake let down mainly by its star and a very weak script
The Problem I Had With This . . . .	. . . . is the same problem I have with DEAD POET'S SOCIETY or any other film set around school - I couldn't relate to it . I've always found teachers to be crypto-fascists and yet as at least one other reviewer pointed out the idea of Miss Brodie being an admirer of Franco and Il Duce just doesn't ring true . In fact I didn't find anything about THE PRIME OF MISS JEAN BRODIE to ring true . But I guess it's a film for females
Bizarre And Not Helped By The Lack Of Credibility	You know not to expect too much if you know if a film playing late on BBC 1 is a TVM but AS GOOD AS DEAD did at least have actors who have appeared in relatively successful mainstream movies , and even if you don't class Traci Lords as a mainstream actress at least you've got an opportunity to see what she looks like with her clothes on ! Saying that this telefilm has a very exciting premise of what happens if an act of kindness goes astray leading to all sorts of terrible fall-out . As a couple of people have already mentioned this would have possibly worked much better as a cinematic release or failing that a thriller made by HBO . Unfortunately seeing as it's marketed more for woman who have no interest in what's on the mid week sports channel the TVM pulls its punches But it's the lack of credibility that ruins the potential . Okay Nicole just happens to bump into Susan outside a nightclub and they become instant best friends so much so Susan lets Nicole have an operation via her medical insurance . This is one of those plot setting sequences where the audience aren't supposed to think about so that can be forgiven since most movies have this type of pre-destination , for example think how the alien from ET just happens to be found by Elliot the only friendly human he's likely to meet on Earth . But what is far less easier to forgive is the way Susan reacts to the situation or the way other people react to Susan who despite having no money or access to money can afford bus and taxi fares around town . Susan shows photos of people in a hospital and sits down at a computer but no one ever gets suspicious about her behaviour or motives , and if Nicole was able to walk into any club or attend any party doesn't that mean she has a large network of associates ? If so how come no one seems to have noticed she's disappeared . Perhaps the most unlikely aspect ( IMHO ) is that while Susan is shown at the start of the movie as being a conservative dresser she then has no qualms about dressing like a slut later on . Would a woman who wears trouser suits be the sort of person who wears thigh lengths boots and a belt masquerading as a skirt ? Yeah I know you've got to turn off critical facilities when you're watching this type of telefilm but these plot twists are irritating if not unconvincing , and what makes it worse is as I previously stated is that the premise itself showed a lot of promise
The Jury Is Still Out On This One	Can't really say I was much of a fan of the JUDGE DREDD . My favourite 2OOO AD strip was INVASION ( That's the one where Britain is is invaded and occupied by a bunch of commies from the central Volgan Republic ) so I wasn't going to judge ( Geddit ? ) the film version as some sort of comic book geek , but even so I found Danny Cannon's film version disappointing . I know he's trying to do a film based on a comic strip but he does so too literally , there's no character development , the villain is just sooooooo evil because he kills everyone he comes across , makes the occasional wise crack while commiting murder and gives an silly evil laugh and shouts very loudly when riled . But Cannon and the screenwriters fail to introduce the razor sharp satire and gut wrenching irony that made the strip such a success so you've got a film that won't really appeal to either the average cinema goer or fans of the comic strip . I doubt if anyone will ever bother making another DREDD movie but if they do I think Paul Verhoeven directing a script much closer in feel to the strip ( Only the scene involving the preacher in his cave with his sons feel like they came out of the strip ) could be a major blockbuster hit . As it stands the 1995 version isn't much cop ( Geddit ? )
Bizarre	This is a four minute short where the world is introduced to Eugene Hicks and for a male audience many of us feel we shouldn't have been introduced : " I have what every woman wants . trust me " Trust must be earned Eugene " I'm extremely intelligent and incredibly well paid " Ah that's where the trust must be earned Eugene , if you'd said something like " I'm a complete mug and incredibly well paid " then perhaps you would have got away with " I have what every woman wants " " I drive a Ferrari Enzo and an Aston Martin " What you mean you're able to drive two cars at once ? That must be very conveniant if you want to be in two places at once and not even Michael Schumaker can achieve this remarkable feat But as the story goes on it's revealed that Eugene is doing something very naughty . I won't give away the ending but isn't there a fly in the ointment here ? Eugene looks like he's of mixed race and if he's doing what I think he's doing won't the parents realise something is up if the parents are both white ?
I Feel Slightly Cheated	TWISTER is one of those Summer blockbuster pop corn movies so I shouldn't be too hard on it but I kept getting the impression it was nothing more than an overblown TVM like NIGHT OF THE TWISTERS OR ATOMIC TWISTER . There's a lot in common style wise with these latter TVMs featuring a lethal column of wind . The heroes are very nice people but also very superficial and lacking real depth while the cameras disappear when there's some really spectacular carnage on its way . This expensive blockbuster cheats in the same way as NIGHT OF THE TWISTERS when the main characters survive a terrible tornado that devastates a small town , devastation that happened off screen . While the budget of the aforementioned TVM wouldn't have stretched convincingly enough to show us lives ended and homes destroyed TWISTER has far less of an excuse . I often found myself bored watching the tornado sequences on screen . Tornado might be spectacular but there also very similar in appearance and unfortunately the special effects here aren't too special with the CGI explosions being especially unconvincing to a demanding and blasé audience who cry out to be left breathless by FX technology It's an inoffensive film but don't expect too much
Men With Funny Voices Do A Lot Of Talking	This is a movie that has a great opening sequence where we see a British led division of ten thousand men ( There's a bit of emphasis that despite being British led most of the troops are natives so you know how they got stuffed ) trek through the arid plains of The Sudan as they search for the Islamic trouble maker called The Mahdi . It culminates in a pretty good battle scene which lulls the viewer into thinking that they're going to be watching a movie similar to the great historical epics like THE FOUR FEATHERS and ZULU but that's not really how the story progresses since much of it revolves around Sir Larry dressed up as Al Jolson and Chuck Heston trying to speak like an Englishman old boy where they have long monologues stating how much they respect each others religion . It makes you wonder what sort of movie we will be watching a hundred years from now involving Dubya and Bin Laden The bottom line is that this movie is probably worth watching once if only for the spectacular opening sequence . The fact that the BBC broadcast this movie nearly every Easter gives a clue as to its content
It's Not Too Bad	Like some of the reviews on this site , all the TV guides put the boot into THINNER but I don't see what the problem is . Okay it's by no means a great movie but it's by no means as bad as I was expecting . The only things I disliked intensely was at the start of the film when the fat slobbish Billy was a little too hard to swallow ( Geddit ? ) as having a pretty blonde wife , and the not very convincing make up of the other Gypsy victims and maybe it would have been better if the audience never saw the effects of the curse on them , but I thought the rest of the movie played out okay and I liked the twist at the end . It's by no means Oscar material but it's better than a lot of movies I've seen based on King novels
Just Another John Wayne Movie	THE HORSE SOLDIERS is directed by John Ford and stars John Wayne but anyone expecting something along the lines of THE SEARCHERS ( Not the master work it's claimed to be ) is going to be very disappointed since the plot is very simple . Set during the civil war Col John Marlowe must lead an Union force to attack a confederate base and that's the plot in a nutshell . It should also be pointed out that Marlowe's force don't actually reach the confederate base until well past the halfway point of the movie so up till that point there's little in the way of action . There's something that puzzled me in that Marlowe's force face little if any opposition in reaching their target but find themselves besieged by the enemy on the return home . I'm slightly confused why that should be . Oh and if you're not much of a Wayne fan ( which I'm not ) then you'll not like his performance as John Marlowe simply because John Wayne more or less plays the same character in every movie he plays wether it be a tough cop ( McQ , BRANNIGAN ) , a special forces officer ( THE GREEN BERETS ) or a calvery officer ( Insert the name of nearly every western Wayne has appeared in ) which is a shame because there's much potential for some strong on screen conflict between Marlowe and William Holden's character Maj Hank Kendall A movie for Wayne and / or Ford fans . I guess we should all be thankful that there is no political right wing rhetoric to this movie
Too Slow For Some Tastes . . . .	. . . . Including mine I stayed up late to watch TRUE CONFESSIONS down to the simple reason it contained performances by De Niro and Duvall . Neither performance disappointed ( Remember this was made in 1981 when DeNiro was a God when it came to acting . How times change ) but the rest of the film did . I was under the impression that this was going to be very similar to LA CONFIDENTIAL and for brief spots the movie hints it's heading in that direction with its subplot of the murder of a prostitute and pornography but there's far too many slow talky scenes with static direction and there seems to be a subtext of catholic guilt in there somewhere which will probably confuse anyone who didn't attend a catholic school as a child . If you want to see DeNiro in a great film about redemption and guilt watch ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA instead
Not The Worst Brit Comedy You Will See	The critics were unkind to this and I got the impression it was down to two reasons : 1 ) The character Johnny English is based on a character that appeared on credit card adverts in the early 1990s . you get the gut instinct that character development isn't something that applies to characters appearing in adverts 2 ) Bond spoofs are old hat and weren't all that funny in the first place So I was sat there at Christmas thinking I'd be watching something with all the appeal of 37 day old turkey sandwiches but I was fairly impressed . Okay I wasn't rolling around the floor with tears streaming down my face but I've always liked Rowan Atkinson's arrogant portrayal of Edmund Blackadder and the character of Johhny English is just as similar to Blackadder as it is to Mr Bean . I will grant you the jokes are hit and miss or predictable like the scene where English infiltrates the villains HQ and finds an old man : " What did they do to you ? " " They took some of my blood " " The b @ stards " Of course you can see the pay off long before it appears but that still doesn't stop it from being amusing when it doesNo doubt a lot of pretentious John Malkovich fans were left stratching their heads wondering why he was slumming it in JOHNNY English but if you've enjoyed anything Rowan Atkinson has been in you'll certainly find this comedy very watchable
Lacks Any Gritty Realism	I do admit to being a DR WHO fan , it's my all time fave show . I've followed this highly entertaining series since I can remember when Jon Pertwee played the role But in the late 70s camp humour came more and more into the programme which killed it in the mid 80s . Camp humour also spoiled this film adaption . The TV story DALEKS INVASION EARTH is based upon was very cheap but very well written and designed , the survivors of the Dalek invasion struggled in the remains of civilisation in a style not unlike the first TERMINATOR movie . Not so here where everyone looks remarkably well dressed , clean and very well fed . Add to this a very silly soundtrack , glitzy fight scenes and a ridicolous scene with Bernard Cribbens trying to blend in with fellow robomen and you have a film that lacks almost everything . Sorry guys I much prefer the BBC teleplay
Top 50 ! Yeah Right	As I write this ONCE UPON A TIME IN THE WEST is ranked number 50 in the IMDB top 250 movies . I can't help thinking a lot of people have confused this with ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA The problem I had is that it's massively overlong and it crawls along at a snails pace , most of this is caused by someone walking into a set , the camera spending several seconds holding a close up on their face , then the character walking along very slowly , they stop , camera holds close up on their face for several seconds again , and then , only then do they open their mouth , camera cuts to close up of other characters faces , then someone opens their mouth to reply . Gawd with a little minor editing this film could have been half the length without loosing a single scene or line of dialogue And doesn't the closing theme tune ( Also used thoroughout the film ) sound like like it belongs in a BBC sitcom ?
Extremely Boring	A VIEW TO A KILL is a substandard Bond film with a rambling and boring plot involving a villain trying to create a microchip monopoly . Tanya Roberts is almost certainly the worst Bond girl ever , and we get to see the worst back projection in the series . The only thing that stops it being a serious contender for the worst Bond film is Christopher Walken . Max Zorin could possibly have been the most forgettable Bond villain ever if it wasn't for the ridiculous ham performance of Walken , and a VIEW TO A KILL is shorter than OHMSS and MOONRAKER the two other contenders for worst Bond film
Too Bizarre	I suppose BODY DOUBLE has some merit as a spoof on the porn industry and as a homage to Hitchcock but there's two things I found annoying and one thing that ruined the whole film for me The first annoying thing was Holly Body . Melanie Griffith plays the part of a porn star bimbo very well , but her name Holly Body ! I was under the impression that porn stars got their names by combining the name of their first pet with their mother's maiden name hence Holly Body is an unconvincing porn name Frankie Goes To Hollywood was the second annoying thing . What on earth were they doing in that sequence ? Was it a video shoot or did they get invited onto the sets of porn films in the 1980s all the time ? But the thing that spoiled BODY DOUBLE was the ending . I'm reluctant to write a spoiler but what the hell was all that about , it's not too disimilar to these type of films where somebody wakes up and they discover it's all been a dream . I didn't understand it at all and I wouldn't recommend this film if you're looking for a logical endingAnd I wouldn't recommend it BODY DOUBLE unless you're familiar with the techniques of the porn industry . This not a family film
A Film Shouldn't Revolve Around CGI	The problem I had with the original film was that the script seemed to be written around the special effects , especially the CGI . Well the bad news about the sequel is that it suffers from the same problem multiplied by ten . Witness the opening prologue of massed armies fighting , an oasis appearing from nowhere and the scorpian king's army overrunning a city all of which might have looked good on paper but on screen is badly executed due to some really apalling CGI . I don't know what it is about this type of cinema technology but think of all the films where it's been used in set pieces that fail to convince ( ESCAPE FROM LA , DIE ANOTHER DAY etc ) and watching it used in THE MUMMY RETURNS left me shaking my head wondering why directors and FX maestros haven't been able to improve upon it . Watching the action scenes in this movie is like watching a cartoon . Equally unconvincing and uninvolving is the screenplay which revolves around the bad guys wanting to get their hands on Rachel Weisz chest . Who can blame them ? you ask , well it's not that sort of chest I'm talking about , it's a treasure chest containing something or another which I didn't bother to digest because the plot takes second place to a bunch of CGI inspired set pieces . Unfortunately most of the set pieces are stolen from the previous film which gave me a feeling THE MUMMY REMADE WITH A SEQUENCE STOLEN FROM JURASSIC PARK : THE LOST WORLD would have been a better title . And watch out for the number of scenes where one of the good guys is in serious trouble only to have the hero appear to save the day . It really does get tedious after the first three or four times it happensI may be accused of taking this film far too seriously and not realising it's a dumb popcorn movie . Perhaps but what's wrong with an intelligent popcorn movie ? And does anyone else miss the good old days when monsters were men dressed up in costumes or stop frame photography ?
A Ridiculous Melodrama That Has Dated Very Badly	I had never seen THE DEFIANT ONES and I sat down to watch it a couple of days ago in eager anticipation since this was regarded as a classic American movie from the 1950s , I mean we're talking about the movie with " the white convict and the black convict handcuffed and on the run " . After seeing it I thought perhaps the critical acclaim was to do with the TVM remake that starred Robert Urich because this is a film so melodramatic and dated that any cynical audience member will either fall asleep through boredom or throw popcorn at the screen A truck carrying members of a chain gang crashes and a couple of convicts escape . The cops leading the hunt are shocked to discover that the authorities have in their infinite wisdom shackled a white guy to a black guy . You might have thought they might have been more surprised that considering the spectacular crash the two escapees manged to run away without a scratch between them The action cuts to the two felons on the run John " Joker " Jackson and Noah Cullen and just in case there's any blind people in the audience who haven't realised that Tony Curtis is white and Sidney Poitier is black they call each other all sorts of racist names . At this early point I knew instantly where the story was going so all the name calling seemed superfluous in the end and to be blunt I was never convinced that these characters would exist in reality , in fact I couldn't believe they were characters at all , just a couple of actors playing roles And as the story went on I realised I was getting battered over the head with the message " Racism is wrong and we should look beyond the colour of a persons skin in order to survive " . Thank you for pointing this out but I would have come to the same conclusion without it getting rammed down my throat . If the movie had been subtle then I would have regarded it better but that's the problem it's not a subtle movie at all - It's an often ridiculous melodrama best summed up by the ending which is both entirely predictable and laughably illogical
I'm Confused How This Was Considered To Make A Lot Of Money	Once upon a time people were looking forward to this cinematic event and you can't really blame them . SNAKES ON A PLANE ! a great title for a movie and right away you know what the premise is about . It also sounds like it's the type of movie that a family would enjoyUnfortunately for reasons known only to the the producers an alternative title could easily have been MOTHERKIN ' SNAKES ON A MOTHERKIN ' PLANE . That's right someone somewhere thought it'd be a great idea to include sex , violence and bad language which means it was granted an 18 certificate . I imagine that plenty of 11 year olds had fallen in love with this movie simply down to the title and felt gut-wrenching disappointment when they realised they were unable to see it in the cinema Even worse because it can be classed as an adult movie anyone over 18 will have developed critical attitudes where they notice some ridiculous plot holes . For example the mafia want to bump off an FBI informant who's due to testify to a grand jury . The mafia hit upon a bright idea to smuggle hundreds of deadly snakes concealed in a box onto a plane and have the snakes escape when a detonator destroys the box . Is there anyone who didn't pick up on this stupid and contrived idea ? Why not just stick a bomb to the detonator thereby ensuring the witness is killed for certain . There's other niggling problems such as no matter how posionous a snake's venom is you'd not die instantly as seen here . On top of that many of the snakes are totally unconvincing and look like what they are - CGI FX Maybe I'm being too harsh since this is a film that shouldn't be taken too seriously . In many ways it feels like a follow on from the AIRPORT franchise of the 1970s and you do keep expecting George Kennedy to make an appearance at some point . But when all is said and done this is a film that's too dumb for reasoning adults and the producers have only themselves to blame for its disappointing box office returns
I Agree With Many OF You . That's Why I Disliked It	Many , many years ago I remember seeing a film that had The Master from DOCTOR WHO in it ( In fact many of the characters looked like The Master to me ) and the climax took place upon a zeppelin but I had no idea what the film was called untill today when BBC 2 showed THE ASSASSINATION BUREAUWell yes THE ASSASSINATION BUREAU does have a sort of late 1960s charm to it and is very very inoffensive and I can understand why many of the reviewers on this page like it but it probably won't appeal to anyone half as cynical as me . I don't suppose I can criticise the unconvincing banter between Oliver Reed's hero and the baddies or point out how really crap the special effects and the back projection are can I ? Nope thought notI'm not an assassin . I'm a critic
Disjointed	GAME FOR VULTURES is a rather confused story about a freedom fighter / terrorist , an illegal arms dealer and an illegal shipment of helicopters to Rhodesia , but the story strands never really gel . Instead of a coherent plot we get a battle scene followed by sentenious speeches followed by a scene that doesn't add anything to the plot . Other irritations include Richard Harris and Richard Roundtree playing Rhodesians neither of whom make any attempt at a Rhodesian accent , a freedom fighter called " Sixpence " and the black Scottish guy from PORRIDGE playing a murderous thug SPOILERS The version I saw on BBC 1 tonight was slightly different from a version I saw several years ago . A scene in the opening battle scene featured a Rhodesian soldier getting crushed by a runaway landrover , and an entire subplot featuring Tony Osoba's character is missing . This is where he murders his sister at the end and he in turn is killed by his brother in law with a pitchfork
Deja Vu	One Sunday afternoon in 1982 BBC 1 broadcast STORM OVER THE NILE . Nothing remarkable in itself with this scheduling but later that evening the ITV channel broadcast THE FOUR FEATHERS remake from the late 1970s ! Two different versions of the same story broadcast a few hours within each other on the two network channels ! Amazing , and not something that was unnoticed since myself and several school colleagues remarked upon this the next day . We were all in unanimous agreement that STORM OVER THE NILE was the much superior movie . Strangely over the years every time Terence Young's version is broadcast the TV guides don't have kind words for the 1955 film version of AEW Mason's story and after seeing the original 1939 version of THE FOUR FEATHERS I understand why - It's a rip off ! In the past I have criticised movies like CRITICAL MASS and RANGERS that use extensive film footage from other movies like TERMINATOR 2 and NAVY SEALS . With STORM we see the exact same thing . The truly great battle scenes weren't directed by Young they were directed by Zoltan Korda almost 20 years earlier . To be fair I don't think the producers are claiming that this is an entirely original movie hence the credit for both Korda and Young in the directors slot but I did see the 1939 version a week earlier on channel 4 and this spoils the enjoyment of STORM since the script is identical as are most of the action scenes . If you've never seen the original you'll like this movie but if you remember the unforgettable 1939 version by the Korda brothers you'll be left with a cynical feeling watching this
Could Have Done With A lot More Action	The BBC broadcast an adaptation of Robert Louis Stevenson's KIDNAPPED a couple of months ago ( I really must get round to reviewing that sometime ) so I found myself comparing it with this version and unfortunately this is very much inferior The problem lies in that the movie has very little in the way of action . There's a set piece on a boat that is skimmed over far too quickly , there's a sniper attack and Alan Breck killing a couple of redcoats and that's basically it as far as action scenes go with much of the running time taken up with Breck telling everyone what a wonderful patriot he is . I guess the dialogue scenes taking precedent over sword fights and battles is caused by the producers hiring the services of some fine actors and wanting them to appear on screen as long as possible . It's fairly well acted , though I'm afraid Caine is rather miscast and he makes Alan Breck boorish and unlikable There is one thing that puzzles me in this movie and it happens fairly often , and that is people recognise Breck as soon as they seem him even though they've not met him before but why should this be ? There was no mass media in the mid 18th Century so they'd be no TV cameras or photography and I doubt if a " Wanted " poster for Breck would capture his likeness and yet nearly every time Breck is spotted someone always gasps " It's Alan Breck ! " Oh and can I just add something about the English / British debate that the redcoats are the Hanoverian British army while the Highlanders are Jacobites , they're Highlanders supporting the Jacobite heir Bonnie Prince Charlie and it's unlikely they considered themselves to be all that Scottish never mind British
MAIMI VICE Meets Fatboy Slim	TO LIVE AND DIE IN LA is a fair enough thriller but there is a bit of a problem watching it in 2004 and is that it's very dated . Check out the fashions of having cops wearing their padded shoulder jackets with their sleeves rolled up . Very 1980s . Also check out the directing style of orange sunlight casting its glow on interiors as an intrusive pop track plays . It's impossible to watch this movie without being reminded of MAIMI VICE Something else I noticed was a scene straight after a car chase ( You won't need reminding of what I'm talking about . If you've seen this movie you'll know what car chase I'm talking about ) when the two cops are sitting on a car in a rundown part of town . If you look closely you can see a trio of funky black geezers walking past holding radios to their ears . They're almost dancing through the scene which instantly reminded me of the video of the Fatboy Slim video ROCKERFALLAH SKANK Check it now . Funk show brother Right about now . Funk show brother
Not As Good As I Heard	After reading some of the comments on this page I was expecting more . I sat down to watch DUEL AT DIABLO thinking I'd be watching something similar to ULZANA'S RAID or SOLDIER BLUE , but they're both Vietnam allegories or rather anti Vietnam war allegories from the early 1970s while this movie was made in 1966 when the war was still popular amongst Americans . To be honest I couldn't find any ' Nam subtext and I doubt very much if there was any to start with . Yeah there might be some sympathy shown to the injuns via a throw away line about living on the reservations being lied to , but once you see the tortured bodies of the white eyes you stop feeling sorry for them in any way There is a slight problem with the acting though . Bibi Anderson isn't a native English speaker which means when she delivers her lines like " I - was - better - off - with - the - injuns " they sound very strange coming from her mouth . Sidney Poiter is a good actor but seems strangely cast as Toller and does anyone else think the producers cast Dennis Weaver thinking he was Dennis Hopper ? It's not a bad film and I guess it was violent and sadistic when it was first released but as has been mentioned it hasn't dated well
Lynda La Plante Is Overated	I've never been a subscriber to the the train of thought that Lynda La Plante is one of the greatest writers in the history of British television . Her success his mainly down down to other people especially to producers like Verity Lambert who has produced much of La Plante's output . Don't believe me ? Watch this version of FRAMED then Being an American movie produced for television there's criteria as to what can and cannot be shown , so out goes the grittiness . . . ooopps sorry " grittiness " that La Plante is famed for so we're just left with the bare bones of La Plante's original teleplay and it doesn't hold up to too much scrutiny . NYPD cop Mike Santini arrests international criminal mastermind Eddie Meyers who then turns prosecution witness ? Forgive me for asking but do cops get assinged to look after the same people they arrested on the witness protection program ? Am I alone in thinking Mike is the only cop assinged to looking after Meyers ? and how does Mike manage to afford a big house and swimming pool if he's a mere detective ? The plot twists and turns which ends up making it not complex but somewhat contrived and there's a bizarre scene where Sam Neill's character ( And Neill plays Meyers in a totally camp way ) emulates a scene in a police car that another character played by Sam Neill did 25 years earlier in the movie SLEEPING DOGS . The script is mainly to blame for this mediocre crime tale but it's not really helped by Daniel Petrie's directing or the usual TVM restraints on budget . No doubt La Plante afficianados can blame American TVM network regulations on its failure , but if that's the case shouldn't other people be getting the credit for La Plante's British TV successes ?
NHK Only Have Themselves To Blame	THE Indian RUNNER grossed the measly sum of 191 , 125 dollars at the American box office , a total so paltry that the Japanese company NHK stopped investing in movies . If they managed to lose a massive amount on their investment they only have themselves to blame . Think about it Sean Penn ( Probably best still known as a hellraiser and the ex husband of Madonna ) walks into the office saying he's written a screenplay based on a song by Bruce Springsteen and he needs money to put it into production " What's it about Mr Penn " " It's about a couple of brothers . one's a upstanding cop and the other is a Vietnam Vet " " And this Vietnam Vet suffers from post traumatic stress disorder ? " " Well kind of " " So he goes out and blows away bad guys and his brother tries to find out who this vigilante is and there's a really dramatic scene at the end where the cop realises his brother is a killer ? " " Ugh no . It's not really that kind of movie since the bad brother doesn't do much " " So who are you planning to cast ? " " Mainly unknowns , though Charles Bronson might be in it " " And he blows away scum ? " " No , it's not that kind of film " " Who else " " Dennis Hopper ? " " And he plays a loopy Vietnam Vet traumatised by his experiences ? " " No he plays a regular Joe bar tender . I even wrote four very short scenes specifically so Hopper could get a part . There's no scenes set in ' Nam , it's not like that film where I over acted opposite Michael Fox . Despite everyone smoking you'd never believe it was the late 1960s " " So what else happens Mr Penn ? " " Not much except you get to see a baby falling out of a front bottom at the end of the movie " " And is that it ? " " Yes " " Okay Mr Penn , here's a blank cheque take as much money as it costs to make . Hopefully we can make a tidy profit " It's difficult to imagine how anyone thought THE Indian RUNNER would have been a success . Everything about it is adequate at best but the lack of a strong high concept plot means it was doomed right from the start as a commercial venture and will probably be remembered only as the debut of Penn as a director
Not Nearly As Prophetic As It Might Have Been	When EDTV was released in 1999 we didn't have much in the way of reality television , attempts had been tried like THE LIVING SOAP from the mid 1990s which did not catch on and it wasn't until the Dutch produced BIG BROTHER in 1999 that the reality show exploded and since then we've had too many of these type of programmes and hopefully the latest one from Channel 4 that has flopped - SPACE CADETS - will be the final nail in the coffin for this wasted and painfully over used format The main interest in watching EDTV in 2005 is wondering how accurate and prophetic it might have been with hindsight . Did they get it right ? In my humble opinion - No . And if it's trying to be a satire I found it lacking , I mean there's not enough biting cynicism involved ( Though with Ron Howard as director what do you expect ? ) , maybe the producers should have viewed WAG THE DOG to see how it's done Perhaps I should ask how many people praising this film have seen the classic teleplay - No make that " Yet another classic teleplay " - from Nigel Kneale THE YEAR OF THE SEXUAL OLYMPICS where a TV audience watch a TV reality show where contestants are being murdered , a sort of BIG BROTHER mixed in with Agatha Christie . It's when you compare these two that you find this box office friendly Hollywood offering is rather lacking
Boring And Disappointing	Get the producer of PLATOON and the director of DAS BOOT to cast Hoffman , Freeman , Sutherland , Gooding Jnr and Spacey in a thriller about a killer virus and you'll have a sure fire blockbuster hit . And OUTBREAK was a major hit at the box office but does this make it a good film ? In my opinion - no . Despite having an all star cast and massive budget and despite the very good pre titles sequence OUTBREAK is a bad movie . The main culprit for this debacle is Dworet and Pool's script , it's far too talky . Too much time is dedicated to talking about the virus and not enough time is shown just how awful the virus is . It's made worse by the fact that when people do talk ( And boy they never stop talking ) only banal words come out of their mouths : " Oh my gawd " is very popular as is " Gawd dammit " and not forgetting " Gawd help us all " as they realise time is running out . Undoubtedly the most disappointing aspect to the script is when the town is put into quarantine , there's no real attempt on the part of the screenwriters to bring moral ambiguity or blur the edges of right and wrong with this scenario . With a few rare exceptions the citizens comply with directives . Despite being an extremely unpleasant film THE CRAZIES made far better use of this speculative plot and its moral consequences unlike here where Donald Sutherland is the bad guy because he wants to firebomb a town to stop the virus spreading . If you were in his shoes what would you do ? Would you be a bad person for firebombing the town in order to save the world from the virus ? Ah but there's a plot device that does show Sutherland's character to be the villain of the piece so out goes any intelligent subtext as to what would be the right or wrong thing to do in such a situation . So just to sum up : despite its great cast and production team OUTBREAK is nothing special and at times feels like an overblown TVM
Was Once Seared In To My Memory But My Memory Cheated	DUI was without any doubt my all time favourite episode of QUINCY . It's a story I first saw in 1982 or 83 and even a few years later when someone mentioned the show this would be the episode that they'd remember , the one where a man commits murder with a car then gulps down lots of vodka before the police arrive to breathalyse him . What a clever piece of writing and what a great episode of a very good American show . I felt a sudden surge of anticipation earlier today when I was channel hopping and found that this was being shown . I made a cup of tea and sat back to watch a very memorable piece of television . As the end titles came up I felt cheated . Was this the same episode I remembered from more than 25 years ago ? Perhaps it's because I knew how the episode would end that made it very disappointing but it's hardly a great piece of television . Whilst DUI does show the show's strengths , especially clever plotting , it fails to disguise the show's weaknesses . It's painfully obvious that the audience are being lectured to rather than entertained . Enter a victim of a drunk driver who lost he infant daughter and is now confined to a wheelchair whose dialouge is mainly composed of running of statistics of people killed and maimed by drunk driver on American roads . Drunk driving is a terrible crime but the message here is painfully over done , as is perhaps the lack of amenities for wheelchair users in bars . There's also some contrivance to the plot where Quincy bumps in to a couple of cops who witnessed the accident and they casually mention that it's they who drove the drunk driver to hospital for " A haemo something or another " hence setting up the shock revelation that it wasn't drunk driving misadventure but pre-mediated murder It's certainly an episode that will stick out in your memory . The unfortunate thing is when you rewatch it again then all the surprises are gone . For someone like myself who has remembered this particular episode there's more and that is a cherished memory has also disappeared never to come back . Such is life
Romantic Melodrama With An American Bias	It's rather strange watching D DAY THE SIXTH OF JUNE in 2005 because what strikes you is that it's a war movie made with a female audience in mind . Maybe it wasn't so strange at the time because a large proportion of the female population in Britain at the time could probably relate to having both a British boyfriend and an American lover on the go at the same time , but still the thought of a war movie marketed towards women seems somewhat bizarre since it's a genre most females seem to dislike . For example has anyone seen the comments on BLACK HAWK DOWN from teenage girls confessing they went to the cinema simply to see Orlando Bloom and had to endure two hours of on screen carnage ? My problem D DAY THE SIXTH OF JUNE is that it's an American movie . Nothing wrong with that since the Yanks make better films than anyone else but since it's based on actual events it's a very poor history lesson . For example we cut via flashback to a radio broadcast in 1942 stating that because of American involvement in North Africa the campaign was now a foregone conclusion . I will state truthfully that Britain couldn't have won the second world war without American assistance , but we won the Battle of Britain without American assistance and in 1941 British Commonwealth forces numbering 36 , 000 managed to hold back an Italian army numbering 400 , 000 in North Africa , while the decisive battle in the region at El Alamein was an entirely British commonwealth victory save for some equipment that was made in America . Watching this movie you're led to believe that the Brits didn't have a clue what they were doing unless they had expert help from Uncle Sam . Britain spent almost two years alone fighting the Axis powers , which is not something you'd learn from this movie There areone or two good points . One is Richard Todd's performance as a British para . Todd spent the second world war as an officer in the parachute regiment and took part in the D Day landings himself so he gives method acting a whole new meaning , though his character isn't on screen as much as he should have been . Despite being filmed 50 years ago the long awaited battle scenes are good and must have been outstanding in their day , and lastly despite having an American bias this movie occasionally points out the Canadian contribution to the Second world war something that THE LONGEST DAY negates somewhat
Cultural Barrier	It was the video cover of ASOKA that attracted me to the film . It claims to be as spectacular as GLADIATOR , a really good epic film I'd seen a couple of days previously . The video cover tells us it's about the Emperor Asoka of the 3rd Century BC though it doesn't claim to be historically accurate . Well BRAVEHEART was farcical in it's accuracy but the battle scenes were good , so that didn't put me off , or the fact that it was subtitled . After all DAS BOOT had subtitles and that's one of the finest antiwar films ever made , so I stuck ASOKA into the VCR expecting GLADIATOR meets BRAVEHEART . I got a disappointing surprise , ASOKA is a Bollywood movie . I've nothing against Bollywood , films are made as a form of mass entertainment and outside the American industry Bollywood stands heads and shoulders above all the other countries of the World put together which is evidence of its success , it's just that I find them unfocused when it comes to genres . Can you imagine a James Bond film suddenly turning into a musical ? As for the " Epic " merits of ASOKA itself I was very disappointed . Within the first ten minutes we have a line stolen from CROCODILE DUNDEE and a battle scene stolen from SPARTACUS which isn't as exciting as it sounds . Indeed some the fight scenes are laughable with the camera locked onto the actors faces in a completely unconvincing attempt to hide the fact that there are about a dozen or so actors comprising an army . Having said that the final battle is relatively well done with a cast of hundreds , though it's not all that impressive if you've seen GLADIATOR a couple of days previously . POSSIBLE MILD SPOILERS My major complaint is the bitter sweet ending which preaches the message that evil begets evil , violence begets violence . It's a poignant and serious message so why did we have 5 song and dance routines in the first half of the film ? And the fact that the musical numbers disappear half way through gives the film in general and the ending in particular an extremely uneven feel . If the producers wanted to make a musical then they should have done so , if they wanted to make a serious epic they should have done so , as it is ASOKA might have appealed to some people but not to me
MAIMI VICE Meets Tarantino	A problem with thrillers from the mid 1990s is how much they try to emulate the stylised film noir of Tarantino . PERSONS UNKNOWN is a case in point . Disgraced cop Jim Holland works as a security expert , has a one night stand with a woman he literally bumps into , realises he may have been stitched up then tracks her down to find out what her game is . Not a very original plot but at least it's a movie with a plot . Where it fails to a certain extent is through some plot holes the screenwriter didn't seem to notice but the audience certainly will ! ! ! ! ! SLIGHT SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The problem starts when Holland confides to his buddy on the force that he needs details on this girl . Big mistake number one since his buddy also makes a note of her name in an all too obvious plot point . It turns out this woman has stolen the security details of a crack house she and her friends go and rob . Holland who has been spying on the robbers then rips them off by stealing the money they've stolen and buys a new boat with the proceeds . Big mistake number two as buddy cop puts two and two together and realises what's happened and so teams up with some very annoyed Columbians who want their money back . I guess if Jack had been more careful and discreet his friend wouldn't have turned traitor , but that meant the plot wouldn't been put in gear I won't criticise these plot holes too much because PERSONS UNKNOWN isn't a bad film . It's no masterpiece but as everyone has mentioned it's very enjoyable in a violent and bleak way and has a superb soundtrack courtesy of Ed Tomney . Remember Jan Hammer's synth music for MAIMI VICE ? That's what it resembles in this film and is very haunting . Also very memorable is Jon Favreau's performance as Terry an absolute whacko robber who unfortunately isn't on screen long enough for my liking An entertaining nihilistic thriller that may well be remembered in the future for Naomi Watts in an early role
Good Job I Enjoyed The Joy Division Soundtrack	So Alan Partridge was based upon Tony Wilson ? I always genuinely believed that Coogan's legendary comedy character was based on Richard Madeley but watching the real Tony Wilson's pretentious egotistical and painfully insincere conversations on television I suppose there is a bit of Wilson in Partridge - Or is the fact that Coogan plays Wilson in this biographical movie something that prejudices my view ? Come to think of it Wilson's body language and hand gestures remind me far more of Tony Blair than anyone else . I digress 24 HOUR PARTY PEOPLE is a highly self indulgent mockumentary film centered on the creation of Manchester based Factory Records . Highly self indulgent in the way it brings to the narrative things that only the real life characters know or give a toss about . Things like the real life Howard DeVoto ( It's okay I've never heard of him either ) addressing the camera and saying " I can't remember that bit " . That's nice to know Howard because Western Civilisation was resting on this part of the plot - If not the entire movie . I'm sure we can all rest easy in our beds knowing the truth and I look forward to the sequel PEOPLE TONY Wilson KNOWS AND THEIR HOME MOVIES Two things make the movie worth watching for me . . . 1 ) The eclectic cast featuring people as diverse as Andy Serkis , Christopher Ecclestone , Peter Kay and Jack Duckworth's son 2 ) The soundtrack . Most especially Joy Division , a band that was ( in ) famous for its bleak , nihilistic tones and the bizarre on stage antics of Ian Curtis and praise too for Sean Harris who captures Curtis's mannerism perfectly But unless you've enjoyed the music of at least one Manchester band be it Joy Division , New Order or The Happy Mondays you might not want to join this party
Violent Cliched Western	A lawman rides into town and tells the local sheffif he's taking in a bunch of bad guys dead or alive . How many times have we seen this in a film ? LAWMAN is just another B western despite having a cast that includes Lancaster , Ryan and Duvall . Another obvious fault is the fact that it's very violent which jars with the cliched story . Only of interest to die hard western fans . If you want to see a decent involving western directed by Michael Winner try CHATTO'S LAN
Shoot Itself In The Foot	NICK OF TIME has a fairly good premise , okay it's not the most original thriller ever made but it had potential but by about half through it becomes more and more contrived and ridiculous . I won't give away any spoilers but there's a scene when it looks like Gene is going to die for certain at the hands of the bad guy but then . . . . like I said I won't spoil it for you but if you see the movie you'll know the scene I'm talking about which had me convinced Gene was going to wake up and realise it's all been a bad dream or something
Great Premise . Not A Great Movie	Remember the mid 1980s ? This was the era of hair , shoulder pads and rather crap music which a lot of people are still trying to forget . What everyone seems to have forgotten is the nuclear paranoia of the time , how can anyone forget 99 Red Balloon's by Nina I ask you ? . This was the era of THE DAY AFTER , TESTAMENT , THREADS and WHEN THE WIND BLOWS where thermo-nuclear war was just around the corner . WAR GAMES predates these unbearable nuclear dramas and shockingly WAR GAMES is the only one that can still be classed as being topical since the central plot revolves around a computer hacker who can gain access to the Pentagon's nuclear codes , a plot that is based in reality even today Scary huh ? Unfortunately after getting off to a good start where the audience think the balloon has gone up big time the movie fails to make the most of the premise as we're shown young hacker David Lightman being given a stern talking to by Pentagon staff that he's been a very naughty boy in almost starting WW3 and he's going to get into trouble . It's not all that exciting and I can't help feeling that the rather poor development is done on purpose . Remember what the artistic zenith of James Cameron career was ? The scene in THE TERMINATOR where Kyle walks along a nuclear shelter in a post apocalypse world where children stare at burning TV screens and people scavenge for rats as a food source , a brilliant haunting sequence but a very distressing one , so I guess that a movie made in 1983 for a family audience didn't really want to hammer the point home that if war did break out then the survivors would envy the dead . That said the film is decidedly unthrilling and has all the production values of a TVM . It could have been worse though because if it was made in 1985 brat pack stars Matthew Broderick and Ally Sheedy would have been compelled to take part in a groovy song and dance number
Another Movie Trying To Be Too Clever	I'd heard a lot about the original novel though I'd never read it , possibly because it sounded like product placement with the anti hero giving long winded descriptions of what beauty products he uses and what designer suits he wears . This is translated into the start of the movie as Patrick Bateman washes , shaves , ex foliates and dresses in brand names . There's two problems with this , firstly that it holds up the main plot of a violent serial killer bumping people off and secondly it doesn't connect with people like me who didn't spend a massive fortune on expensive brand products in the 1980s Did you know this story was set in 1980s New York ? Oh yes you notice things like mobile phones the size of the brick , smoking in bars , and really crap music by Phil Collins and Huey Lewis And The News , but for much of the running time you totally forget what decade the story is set . Did anyone notice giant shoulder pads or hair like exotic plants ? , y'know fashion statements from the 80s some people don't like to talk about today . All these things seem to be missing as if director Mary Harron has only included 80s icons when the screenplay specifically referred to them . Watch WALL STREET just before you watch this and you'll instantly notice that one movie was obviously filmed during the 1980s while the other one obviously wasn't But the major problem with AP is that it tries far too hard to be clever . Despite the slow start once Patrick Bateman ( Played by Christian Bale doing a mean Jim Carrey impersonation ) starts bumping off people he doesn't like my attention was held except for a couple of details . When Bateman drags the body of Paul Allen through a busy concourse he leaves a trail of blood which nobody notices . That's detail number one while detail number two is when he chases the prostitute through his apartment block without again nobody noticing he kills her in an unlikely sequence by throwing the chainsaw over a flight of stairs . This got me thinking as to how no one notices his slaughter of innocents . I mean it's obvious the cops are onto him and yet no one notices the mounting death toll . Could it be that he's imagining it all ? By letting the cat out of the bag too soon with these two sequences from Mary Herron I was able to work out by the time he blows up a couple of NYPD patrol cars that Bateman's frustration in life is causing him to be deluded well before the final scenes . Did I say this movie was trying to be too clever ? Maybe I should say too confusing because it insinuates that Patrick Bateman is Paul Allen , or is a figment of Paul Allen's imagination . Duh . Whatever . Considering the very overrated FIGHT CLUB which came out round about the same time has a similar plot twist at the end AP's positives are dimmed even further by comparison
Britain's Answer To Michael Moore's Conspiracy Fantasies	THE POWER OF NIGHTMARES is a heavily hyped documentary series by the BBC in three parts pointing out that America neo conservatives and Islamic terrorists are partners in arms with one needing the other in order to survive . It goes beyond shoehorning facts and ends up trying to out Moore the ridiculous style of Michael Moore with half truths and " facts " which aren't facts at all The series comes in three parts Part 1 - Baby It's Cold Outside Part 2 - The Phantom Victory Part 3 - The Shadows In The Cave I only caught some of the first part but the programme makes the very subjective point that the rise of Islam came about when a young Egyptian student studied in America and came to the conclusion that Western society was decadent , corrupt and meaningless and it was this that caused the culture clash . Most people would dispute this since they draw the conclusion that Khomeini's 1979 revolution in Iran which created the first theocracy in several centuries was the start of Islam Vs the West . The fact that I can't recall the name of this student from Egypt shows how how important he is in the scheme of things . The neo conservatives at the time also thought there was too much decadence and corruption and meaningless in Western culture . You might be shocked to know that that ALL ideaology is based upon the notion that the society we live in has no moral worth and needs to be changed . Communists believe this , fascists believe this , Maoists believe this , Nazis believe this , it's way of thinking that's not the sole preserve of Muslims or radical right wingers The first episode seems to be devoid of the mention of communism which was the bogey man of the American right for 50 years . The programme makes up for it be dedicating the second episode to the Reagen right wing admin supplying Islamists with weapons to fight the Soviets in Afghanistan . This edition is so sloppy in its research that you start to think it's been made to misinform the audience . It insinuates that Osama Bin Laden was a war lord in the conflict when he was only a visiting fighter similar to Western mercenaries who volunteered to fight in the Croat HVO in the early 1990s . The Mujahhedeen ( Literal translation " The soldiers of God " ) were split into 6 different factions , three of which were hardline Islamists : Islamic Party , Islamic society , Islamic Unity and three moderate factions : Islamic Revolutionary Movement , National Islamic Front , and National Liberation Front . None of these factions were led by Bin Laden and not all them were supplied by America , the hardliners were supplied by Pakistan , Egypt and Saudi Arabia . You might like to type in " Robert Fisk interview with Osama Bin Laden " and you'll see the last interview he gave to a Western reporter where he states he had no help from the Americans . Who are you inclined to believe ? This subjective pseudo documentary or Bin Laden himself ? The final part is again debatable where facts are concerned . Al Qaeda is not a cohesive structured organisation . Correct . But does this mean Islamic terrorism is not a threat to the West ? Does this mean for example the Israelis should stop searching Arabs at check points ? Does this mean people should be allowed to carry knives onto jumbo jets ? Again it's a ridiculous notion that because Islamic terrorism is aphallic in structure we've not to worry about terrorist atrocities . It also once again misses out important issues about Afghanistan , for example The Northern Alliance weren't a bunch of warlords but were the same Mujahedeen who defeated the Red Army , the Taliban ( Literal translation " Students of God " ) are Pashtuns from Pakistan not Afghans and it wasn't an Anglo - American invasion of Afghanistan , many countries including France and Germany took part in the invasion which was mandated by the UN . One last point is the suggestion that a " Dirty bomb " is used by Neo Cons in order to make the terrorists seem a bigger threat than they really are but this fear is actually driven by the media not governments . You might like to remember the BBC made a docudrama a couple of months ago called DIRTY WAR which had the scenario of a dirty bomb exploding in London , and let's not forget the BBc co-production called THE GRID . Perhaps a better title for THE POWER OF NIGHTMARES would be PEOPLE IN GLASS HOUSES SHOULDN'T THROW STONES
Would Have Worked Better As A DOCTOR WHO Story	This contains a really funky theme tune , but alas that's the only funky thing about THE GREEN SLIME . The movie has an unbelievably banal script with a laughably small budget . To say the production values are identical to a contempary DOCTOR WHO story would be an insult to DOCTOR WHOCome to think about it , THE GREEN SLIME would have made a fairly good DOCTOR WHO story . Premise wise it's very similar to the late 60s Troughton tales of having a human outpost under attack from an alien force , but unlike THE GREEN SLIME the BBC's legendary show did have an amount of intelligence at that time . I've got a question : If mankind haven't encountered any alien life forms then why is the space station full of security guards ? It's as if the script called for some cannon fodder without contributing any logic to the plot . At least in DOCTOR WHO a script editor would have written a line explaining the need for so many security men . Likewise not even a fantasy show like DOCTOR WHO would come out with a laughable error that heat is NOT a type of energy ! Well what is it if it's not energy ? Having said that " The slimy blobs " would have made great monsters for The Doctor to battle against , and it's nice to see people come onto the site and say THE GREEN SLIME gave them nightmares when they were children . There's a certain BBC show which used to have the same effect on me as a child
Hardly A Great Tribute	I've never been a fan of John Wayne . His films in general and his westerns in particular drown in unrealistic American WASP-ish values and unrealistic history . Look at the opening sequence when Wayne's character protects himself from a would be mugger . In reality most gunfighters were poor shots , not to mention most of their victims died after being shot in the back , so the idea of shooting someones gun from out of their reach is rather laughable because these things didn't happen , and going back to the historical unreality Wayne's character is responsible for killing 30 men in gunfights , but in reality the top gunslinger in the wild west - Depending what source you read - is either Jim Miller or John Wesley Hardin neither of whom killed more than twenty men in gun fights I can understand the subtext of THE SHOOTIST . Wayne was diagnosed with cancer and this is supposed to be a tribute , but instead of being sad and poignant ends up as feeling both self indulgent and tasteless . It also jars stylewise since this type of western ( That had more or less been invented by John Ford ) had disappeared after the likes of A FISTFULL OF DOLLARS , THE WILD BUNCH and THE CULPEPPER CATTLE CO were released a few years earlierWhat you think of this film all depends on what you think of both John Wayne and John Ford . I was hard pressed to give it
Not Too Impressive	Can't say I was too blown away by this movie . The main problem I have is with the main villain Fleischer . Being set long before 1933 he's not the goose stepping " ve haff vays of making you talk pig-dog " Nazi villain of WW2 war films but he's the next worst thing - A fat stupid slob who tries to shoot everyone while calling them a " Schwienhund " . This stereotypical characterisation isn't helped by the OTT performance of Reinhard KolldehoffI don't know if it's the fault of the BBC using an old print of the film but the editing is haphazard and all over the place like the scene on the reef which seems more like a random series of camera shots rather a scene , and you really do get the feeling ( At least with the version the BBC showed tonight ) that whole chunks of the film are missing . How else would Fleischer be able to describe Sebastian as " The Englishman " when they've never met . There's no way Fleischer would know Sebastian was EnglishAnother thing that annoyed me was the laughably unconvincing crocodile . How bad was it ? Well it looked like a man dressed up , that's how bad it was . In fact as it approached Flynn I expected Sebastian to jump out of the crocodile costume and say " Trick or treat ? " One last point . Why is this movie called SHOUT AT THE DEVIL ?
Too Depressing	It's not all that often that we get to see a Stephen King adaption with absolutely no supernatural or horror elements hit the big screen but DOLORES CLAIBORNE is far more disturbing than stuff like GRAVEYARD SHIFT , NEEDFULL THINGS or SALEMS LOT due to the subject matter . It involves trailer trash , unlawful killing , child sex abuse , mental breakdown , wife beating and alcoholism , so it's not got much in the way of entertainment even though it is very well acted by all the cast especially Kathy Bates in the title role . This is a very bleak depressing story which I found to be a total turn off and I'm in no great hurry to watch it again
I Fail To See What The Fuss Is About	EVERYTHING IN THIS COUNTRY MUST has received a lot of critical acclaim amongst short film aficionados but I'm slightly puzzled as to why . I will confess that it's a very well made short film where things like cinematography , editing and acting are concerned but I'm trying to work out the subtext to what it means . Thankfully we don't have any blatant Irish American views of the troubles ( I notice this short is of American origin ) and after seeing American financed garbage like SOME MOTHER'S SON and THE DEVIL'S OWN for that we should be grateful . I guess it's perhaps something to do with the climax where the father cuts off his nose to spite his face , or it's the little things with the directing like soldiers leaving their loaded weapons against a wall which is something that any soldier doing his basic training wouldn't do , or maybe it's because EVERYTHING IN THIS COUNTRY MUST feels more like it belongs in another medium like the theatre
It Wasn't Necessary To Make This Sequel	Talk about having friends in high places and merciful ones at that because what other excuse is there to make a belated sequel to STAKEOUT ? " Belated " is the operative word here because if it was made two years after the original movie I could understand this because that's the only reason the Hollywood industry exists - To make money and let's not forget that whatever the shortcomings STAKEOUT made a lot of money at the box office . So it seems very strange that the studio waited six years before making a sequel to the original , stranger still that both buddy movies and sequels weren't in fashion in 1993 Despite the lack of imagination in producing ANOTHER STAKEOUT it's nowhere as terrible as it could have been . In between episodic comedy adventure scenes the original heroes ( Dreyfuss and Estevez ) are given a new assignment where they team up with a female DA and have to go through a charade of being a family in order to find a witness to a very important trial . I suppose that's the problem the plot is a one trick pony and the further the film goes on it becomes clearer that the pony wasn't too healthy to start with and on the subject of animal euphemisms did anyone notice the jokes involving all creatures great and small ? There's an octopus , a fish , a cat and dog ! It's not a bad film and will pass the time on a rainy afternoon but it does demonstrate how lazy studios are at producing movies
I Wasn't Impressed	THE UNTOUCHABLES came out in an explosion of acclaim in 1987 with the critics hailing it as " a masterpiece " and " An instant classic " but after seeing the movie I was wondering if I'd been watching the same movie . My own theory as to why so many cynical movie critics liked it might have had something to do with the very poor standard of movies in the mid to late 80s which seemed to involve either teenagers getting killed in a variety of gruesome ways or a couple of well dressed cops pointing their guns while the billboard hot one hundred plays in the background . Off the top of my head I can think of only one movie from the same period that deserved much praise and that was PLATOON It could also be remembered that THE UNTOUCHABLES has a great cast list with DeNiro , Connery and a couple of rising stars in Kevin Costner and Andy Garcia , but the screenplay fails to focus on any one character . You do get the impression that it has been re-written to death in order to accommodate the big name stars . Personally I thought Capone should have been the main protagonist with Ness in the background with tough wily Irish cop Malone absent altogether . Maybe that was the intention with the original script but it had been changed with the casting coup involved ? Sticking one or two factual elements into the story would have helped too The more De Palma movies I see the more repetitive his directing techniques become . Long panning shots , slow motion sequences featuring bloody deaths . It was good in CARRIE but had become old hat hereOh and if it was such a great 1987 release how come it didn't get a massive load of Oscar nominations ?
An Uneven Film	I didn't have hopes for this at all . Lee Evans is kind of like Jerry Lee Lewis cross bred with Norman Wisdom while Kathy Burke is a good actress but is type cast in roles as council estate scum so a film where they both appear as two down and out losers didn't strike me as a great film The opening scene opens with Mr Martin looking up at the sun telling his son that this time tomorrow they'll be going on a foreign holiday , the back drop disappears and you realise the characters are standing at a busy motorway junction . It's a clichéd scene but an amusing one . They go home and have a barbecue - By setting a couple of tyres on fire . Again this is very amusing but then everything starts to fall apart as Evans goes OTT and waves a gun around . There's many scenes like this where Evans and Burke and the supporting cast give either very humorous or very moving performances only to ruin it by suddenly spouting expletives , screaming or gurning . One moment you're about to enjoy this film then the next you're holding the remote wondering if it might be a good idea to see what's on the other sideSeveral people have commentated on the way THE MARTINS changes mood not only between scenes but during scenes too and it's impossible not to notice this . Yeah it's a comedy but what else is it trying to be ? Is it a bizarre romance ? A social drama ? certainly Evans and Burke do their best with the shaky material but writer / director Tony Grounds should have developed his idea a bit more before he shot the movie which is an ironic thing to say considering the number of scenes featuring a gun
Too Silly	MARS ATTACKS ! gets off to a good start with a massive barbecue followed by a really good title sequence that will leave you thinking this is going to be a classic SF comedy but don't allow yourself to be fooled because after the opening credits we are introduced very clumsily to the characters , a retard president and family , Bimbo newsreader , Vegas wiseguy , burned out boxer , naive scientist , redneck trailer trash , warmonger etc all of whom are camp stereotypes and most of them are superflous to the very thin plot , there's just far too many people in this film , and all of them are completely stupid beyond beliefI'm also irritated by the fact MARS ATTACKS claims to be a homage to all those 1950s B movies but has decided to be set in a sort of comic book present day where Leon Spinks , Buster Douglas , Tom Jones and Colin Powell exist . If you're going to do a homage to 50s films shouldn't you set it in the 1950s ? Most of the cars and fashions resemble those of that era but other parts are contempary which is silly and unexplained , but silliness dominates this film , people never act as you would expect them to and get ready for the most stupid cop out ending ever seen in a sci fi filmMARS ATTACKS ! does have a couple of good points . As I said the opening credits are good as are the humans getting exterminated SFX though this becomes over used long before the end of the film . The most successful aspect of the film is the Martians themselves who are very very well designed and memorable , but when you stop to consider that the only other memorable thing is the sheer silliness of the film maybe I'm not saying much , and the bad does outweigh the good
A Bizarre Film	! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! The TV Guide described this movie as " A dark drama " while the TV page in the newspaper described it as " A thriller " and in the plot summary on this page director Todd Haynes describes it as " A horror movie of the soul " . I wouldn't class SAFE as any of those things ( Though " A dark drama " probably comes closest ) and when you've got so many people debating what type of movie it is then this can only be seen as a failure of sorts Julianne Moore plays Carol White , a home maker who is married to a rich man and who lives in a very nice big house in California , and perhaps a woman who has it all apart from a good sex life ( A sex scene opens the movie and boy does Carol look bored ) but as the story progresses Carol becomes more and more sicker and the doctors don't know what's wrong with her The serious problemwith the story - And it's a serious problem - is that the audience are expecting something to happen along the lines of Carol's husband is giving her poison so he can elope with a mistress but halfway through the story it's revealed Carol is allergic to the 21st century via chemicals etc . This is a real though thankfully rare condition so don't scoff but we still have to endure another hour of running time and the audience are still waiting for the story to take a turn . I was thinking that when Carol reaches the new age commune the guru in charge is revealed to be a Mr Kurtz type maniac from THE HEART OF DARKNESS and at one one point this is suggested but then the story just ends and the audience are left puzzled as to what the story is about SAFE was written and directed by Todd Haynes and I've pointed out his failings as a writer with this film but I also have a problem with his directing - It looks like he's almost trying to parody the work of Stanley Kubrick . Much of his camera work involves static long shots which means for a movie lasting almost two hours it feels considerably longer , much too long to hold my attention . He does deserve some credit for getting a good performance out of Moore but when have you ever seen her give a bad one ? and at the end of the day SAFE literally feels like an overproduced disease of the week TVM
What's It About ?	This centres around a sectary working at a firm called Funtime Inc but that's about all I can tell you because the narrative didn't make much sense to me and it's as if director Miranda Bowen is trying to film a shampoo advert ! The phone rings , the sectary picks up the phone then we get surreal scenes where the sectary is in a tropical rain forest surrounded by exotic animals where she's at one with nature I notice the other comments are similar to mine . I think the problem with making short films is that it's perceived as a director's medium . Like a feature length movie a short must have a decent script in order for it to work and that's the problem with STAGNATE - The audience are not drawn into the story
Spoiled By My Over Familarity Of The Director's Work	I'm rather sad at having to give BLOW OUT . I'm sure that if I'd seen this many years ago my vote would have been much higher . The problem with watching in 2005 is that I've become too over familiar with the work of Brian De Palma , I'm sorry to say this but he's a film maker lacking in much variety and BLOW OUT features all of the director's trade marks : The steady cam as it films the murderers point of view , the slow mo sequence as the killer descends on his prey , garish colours , hell we even have John Lithgow as a murderer and Dennis Franz as a cop . How many times has that happened in a De Palma movie ? Not to be too negative this is BLOW UP done in a Alfred Hitchcock manner . While De Palma tries to emulate the master of of suspense a bit too much he does make a far more involving movie than the tedious and pretentious Anglo Italian movie from the 1960s . It's okay as a thriller , it's just that it feels like most of Brian De Palma's other movies
A Case Of The Bland Leading The Blind	For the benefit of those of you who haven't read John Wyndham's classic SF novel THE DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS I should point out that the triffids are rather peripheral in the book and the central plot revolves around a meteorite shower that has blinded nearly the entire population of Earth and of the survivors who can see trying to build a future for themselves . The triffids in the novel are so far in the background that there's some speculation as to if Wyndham had originally included the triffids in his early drafts and had added them as a gimmick at the last moment . In other words if you read the novel expecting man eating plants charging around planet Earth consuming human beings left right and centre you will be in for a major disappointment because that's not what the novel is about . Unfortunately if you've read the book then you'll hate this film because it's dumb and over simplified . The film version does get off to a good start however as a meteorite shower takes place and the scenes of a security guard alone in a massive greenhouse does have a certain atmosphere as does the intial scenes of Bill Masen waking up and finding the hospital wrecked and deserted but then the film starts shooting itself in the foot by lapses of logic and coincidence . If you found both yourself and everyone around you was blind would you calmly stand around without panicking or screaming out in anguish . I know I wouldn't but for some strange reason everyone in London does so , even more surprisingly so do the crew of a passenger jet in a scene so bland it has to be seen to be believed . By the way if a train driver was blind isn't there some sort of braking mechanism he can use to stop the train crashing into the station at the end of the line ? ( SPOLILERS ) Do the French build prisons that don't have windows ? Oh no Bill Masen and co are surrounded by Triffids who've managed to overwhelm an electric fence , I wonder if Bill has noticed that brightly coloured red gasoline tanker that's been in the background for the last ten minutes ? But the thing that annoyed me the most is the fact that salt water can kill Triffids , what makes it even more ridiculous is the fact that Triffids have been growing outside the Goodwins lighthouse for ages , lighthouses are situated on sea coasts right ? and what are sea coasts surrounded with ? so how are Triffids able to flourish in an environment that is deadly to them ? And as for the upbeat ending where the remaining humans attend church well I suppose that must indicate that the Triffids must be commies or somethingAll in all a very poor adaption but it's also entertaining in a completely mindless way for those viewers who have no knowledge of the book and enjoy cheesy S
Glossy Empty Thriller	Despite its title this isn't really a film version of the series . There's no Rollin Hand , Paris , Cinnamon Carter , or Daniel Briggs . Worse there's no absurd but clever plotlines that the original series was famous for , this MISSION IMPOSSIBLE is just a generic spy thriller with a confusing unexplained plot . If you've seen the trailers then you've seen all the best bits . If you want to see Jean Reno in an exciting clever thriller watch RONIN or if you want to see a good film directed by Brian De Palma watch CARRIE , SCARFACE or CARLITO'S WAY
Very Slow With A Silly Ending	This is a highly regarded supernatural thriller possibly down to the fact how credible it all seems . Young couple Rosemary and David Woodhouse buy an apartment in New York City then Rosemary receives the happy news that she's pregnant . Being a caring community everyone in the apartment block makes sure she's getting the best natural diet , I mean Rosemary is pregnant and these people can't do enough for her . What lovely people but this makes the movie a rather sugary affair as the neighbours goodness becomes rather suffocating . Only the dimmist audience member won't be pointing out to themselves that these neighbours must have a totally ulterior purpose in making sure Rosemary is getting the best care possible . . . . SPOILERS . . . And indeed they do have an ulterior purpose as it turns out that Rosemary is giving birth to young Master Satan . I don't mean that metaphorically , I mean that literally ! and the whole idea is bloody stupid when you think about it . All these Satanists living in the same block . Good job they're all the same age and have the same social standing to be able to live in the same block as does thespian David . Yeah I know this is all a conspiracy but does it seem credible ? Like many of these type of movies if you don't believe in the physical embodiment of the Devil ( Or indeed Jesus ) then it's impossible to believe that Satan would get a mortal woman pregnant Another problem I had is that the audience are left in little doubt that this is a truly supernatural tale . Wouldn't it have been a far better movie if Polanski had made everything ambiguous ? By that I mean having the audience think that Rosemary is deluded then pull the rug out under their feet but while I was watching there's little doubt in my mind that Rosemary is the protagonist in a Hellish conspiracy I will praise the story for making the point that just because someone is in league with the devil this doesn't necessarily make them a bad person , after all how many people commit atrocities against mankind in the name of the horned beast ( God is a different matter entirely ) but for the most part ROSEMARY'S BABY is a very slow film with an incredibly stupid ending
Drop The Pilot	Anyone remember an American sitcom called NOBODY'S PERFECT ? This starred Ron Moody as Inspector Hart of Scotland Yard ( I'm sure it was retitled HART OF THE YARD in the UK ) who's an innocent abroad when it comes to American customs and police procedures . THE SHAMROCK CONSPIRACY feels very similar in many ways to the former except it's a little more serious as it deals with terrorists , Irish ones which means we get all the old cliches like former members of the IRA on the run because they're not keen on blowing up kids ( What ! It took 25 years to realise the IRA aren't a pacifist outfit ? ) and the main bad guy being described as " An IRA extremist " as opposed to " An IRA moderate " As has been said THE SHAMROCK CONSPIRACY feels like nothing more than a TV pilot . In fact I'd go further and say that it's a TV pilot trying to cash in on the success of THE EQUALIZER with Edward Woodward more or less resurrecting his role of McCall with a few jokey bits like the scene on the NY subway thrown in . I doubt it would have lasted more than one series if it had gone into production
I Think I Know What It's About	I see Bob The Moo was genuinely chilled by this little shocker and I defy anyone not to feel a little shaken by MONSTERS . But I feel many , many people ( Bob included ) may have misunderstood what writer / director Robert Morgan is trying to say . I personally believe that Mr Morgan is pointing out the link between children being cruel to animals and growing up to be serial killers . Jeffry Dahmer would would kill and dissect animals as a boy while notorious child killer Mary Bell would write her name on pavements in the blood of pigeons , hence we see young Stan's dreams of ducks heads scattered around the lawns and the scene outside the rabbit hutch . What we are witnessing are the symptoms of someone who will grow up to be a very serious danger to society in a few short years That's what MONSTERS means to me even though I confess I maybe mistaken by my conclusions . But I'm sure we can all agree that despite being well made on a technical level ( The editing is excellent ) narrative wise it's very disconcerting and unpleasant and contains unlikable characters . It also lacks any type of cleverness that makes a short film standout
Much Too Domestic For My Liking	This starts with Jonathon the husband masturbating in the shower , something his wife Grace makes a joke about . Having never been married I was puzzled as to how this reaction sums up a married relationship . Is it a good sign or a bad sign of a marriage ? Nevertheless Jack and Grace seem to have problems in their relationship because Jack is drawn to Mitsy an Eastern European immigrant who cleans the office he works in . It's at this point my interest in the narrative started waning because the story revolves around Jack's emotional angst of whether he should go to bed with Mitsy or not . Bob The Moo has commentated on how well actor Jack Deam has put across the emotional turmoil his character is suffering but all this really does is make FLOATING a rather bleak and depressing short film and the longer it goes on the more bleak and depressing things become . Thank goodness it wasn't a feature length movie other wise I would have hanged myself long before the title credits
Showing Signs Of Wear	The DIRTY HARRY franchise is a good example of the laws of diminishing returns . The original was a classic thriller down to a tight script and an outstanding performance from Andrew Robinson as a absolute nut case . The sequels MAGNUM FORCE and THE ENFORCER had their moments but were lesser films though both of them are almost certainly better than SUDDEN IMPACT which shows signs of tiredness with the script taking tours away from the central plot as Harry blows away more and more scumbags . The central plot itself had been done to death in many better films and for one moment I thought perhaps the producers had originally thought of pitting Harry against Paul Kerzey from DEATH WISH . I'm not saying the producers had originally planned this , but the thought had stuck in my mind as the SFPD hunt down a vigilante killer The bottom line is that SUDDEN IMPACT isn't as good as the previous movies in the franchise , but it's a lot better than the abysmal DEAD POOL
Wasn't Well Written Was It ?	It's obvious as soon as SUPERMAN 3 starts that not a lot of thought has gone into the screenplay of this movie , I mean the opening sequence is taken up by an unlikely sketch of someone paying attention to a sexy blond , not looking where they're going then BANG all sorts of mayhem ensues . It's like watching a very tired episode of THE BENNY HILL SHOW and seeing Bob Todd in a walk on part does nothing to help this feelingYou could claim that the producers are more to blame than the screenwriters David and Leslie Newman because the previous two entries were somewhat disjointed plot wise and those previous movies were written by that guy who wrote THE GODFATHER but even so this sequel is the worst written of the first three movies in the series where we get two different plots competing for screen time and needless disasters that call for Superman to save the day every ten minutes . Notice too that main villain Robert Webster has cruel put downs involving innuendo like " Get a hold of your self - because no one else will " . Very witty , except all the characters in this movie seem to be able to spout these type of crude witticisms indicating that the writers are incapable of writing idiosyncratic dialogue for the characters in this movie
Disappointing	After the classic GOLDFINGER it's somewhat disappointing to see THUNDERBALL a film that's easily the weakest of the 60s Bond films starring Sean Connery . The problem I have with it is the same problem I have with many of the later Bond films - It's overlong and badly paced with much of the story held up as the audience are shown how easy it is to steal a couple of atomic bombs from a NATO aircraft . It's a ridiculous plot of course like all James Bond films but the production team seem to feel if they go into enough details this will make the threat to the world somehow more credible . Well sorry but it doesn't . It is good in places . As always Connery is great as Bond but it's a pity he spends so much time under water since this drowns out his physical presence , oh and spot the number of times his Edinburgh brogue comes to the fore . It's also a very sadistic film which is something modern day Bond producers seem to have forgotten about . Please note that the reason the James Bond franchise was so ground breaking in the 1960s was because he was such a violent anti hero . Nowadays the title character seems to be based on the late Bob Hope rather than Sean Connery . Completely useless trivia fact : I share something in common with Sean Connery - We were both born in Edinburgh but neither of us have lived there for many years . I now live in Rothesay on the island of Bute . The Royal Navy frigate used in the climax of THUNDERBALL is H . M . S Rothesay . Uncanny
A Misnomer	This was an episode all the fans were eagerly anticipating in 2008 . With a title like The Doctor's Daughter it's a episode heading that leaps up and grabs you . The BBC hype machine also went in to overdrive showing us a clip where Jenny the daughter in question sees the Doctor for the first time and comments " Hello dad " . However early in to the episode it's revealed that Jenny isn't the doctor's daughter . No don't get me wrong Mrs Who hasn't been scoring away from home . The " daughter " is in fact a sort of genetic code thing made by a machine that has the doctor's DNA or something like that So once we've dispensed with a small piece of cheating that leaves the audience rather disappointed what is there left to the episode ? Not much to be honest . The plot is rather thread bare , one of those two sides fighting a war that could have come from THE TERMINATOR , STAR TREK , BLAKES 7 or any other sci-fi story that comes easily to mind . As for Jenny herself I suppose Georgia Moffett does her best but she's one of those action heroine types that only seem to exist in video games or tampon commercials and is difficult to think of her as any type of real character A word too on David Tennant . He's certainly better here than a great number of stories he's appeared in . Unfortunately as hard as he tries he seems to be swimming against the tide . A story like this needs gravitas , indigence and belligerence from the lead role and Tennant's pretty boy looks get in the way . Eccleston's angry northerner would have brought a great deal to the story and when you're watching a tenth doctor story wishing that the ninth doctor was still around that can only be something of a failure for the narrative
Sunk By The Script	When I found out the two credited directors were responsible for MAX HEADROOM I was expecting some MTV over directed nightmare but the artistic style was nowhere as bad as I was expecting . Okay it is a somewhat 1980s type film with an intrusive pop soundtrack in places but a great many ( Too many ) films from that period suffered the same way , it's by know means as bad or as shallow as something like THE FAST AND FURIOUS from years later The problem I had was with the script that lacks narritive drive for the first twenty minutes . It picks up in the middle but what really destroys the film is when the murderer is revealed at the end and he explains his motivations . " What ? " I cried almost falling out off my seat " You done that because . . . . " . Ridiculous doesn't even begin to do it justiceStick to the original film noir classic
Morality ?	The concept behind STRANGE LITTLE GIRLS seems to be something of a redemption plot whereby the lead characters find out that if you play with fire you get burnt and I have very mixed feelings whilst watching this since Amnesty International published a survey result earlier this week that showed that one third of people in Britain think a rape victim contributed to their fate if she dressed provocatively or flirted with the perpetrator . All throughout the running time of this short I felt both Julie and Sarah were going to run into very serious trouble with their behaviour . They steal from a shopping centre ( Which leads to the one and only moment of light relief ) then for some inexplicable reason follow a man into a pub which leads to . . . . Going back to the Amnesty survey this has somewhat prejudiced my view of the film . I've no idea what I would have thought of it if the AI survey hadn't flashed through my head . Who's to blame if someone is raped ? The perpetrator of course and only the perpetrator . Nothing happens to the two girls thankfully though I was puzzled if they'd really learned their lesson and I wonder how the audience had felt if Julie and Sarah had been the victims of a sexual assault ?
Would It Really Appeal To Women ?	I agree with the commentator who described this as a chick flick because my gut instinct is that the second half of the movie takes on the quality of a bizarre love story . However any female sitting through this would have to endure a story of a ruthless Nazi spy slaughtering anyone who stands in the way of his mission and some of the violence is quite brutal ( Channel 4 showed this in the late afternoon ) which I doubt would appeal to a female audience or indeed a family audience . As I said the second half of EYE OF THE NEEDLE changes in genre slightly so for all the lads who enjoyed the war / spy story will become rapidly bored with the second half romantic interlude . I've never read Ken Follet's novel but I got the impression it was something of a pot boiler that women read on sunny beaches so perhaps the story has been badly translated to screen ? That's not to say the movie is bad . Donald Sutherland carries the movie as the cold , ruthless but charming " Needle " who'd probably cut his mother's throat if it expanded the cause of Hitler . It'd be easy for Sutherland to go right over the top in the role but he plays the part in a subtle manner and I did enjoy the aspects where it's revealed he's a spy and the subsequent hunt for him ( Even if it leaves a plot hole - How was he able to operate in Britain for four years after his first murder ? ) , but unfortunately if you enjoyed this aspect then you'd probably be annoyed with the second half and the amount of violence in the early part of the movie means much of the audience the film was intended for wouldn't want to see the latter half
Killer Monks !	Wow what a great idea for a movie getting a bunch of tooled up monks to bump off the anti-christ , you could start a whole franchise on that idea . Alas this idea is relegated to a mere subplot . There's also a subplot of the anti-christ recruiting an elite band of killer boy scouts and nannies which is almost as clever as the killer monk hit team but this too is underdeveloped . Apart from these two so crazy it borders on genius subplots there's no good reason to watch this film which is mediocre for the most part and has one of the most silly endings I've seen in a film
A Maverick Movie ?	After seeing MAJOR DUNDEE I was in something of a state of shock . It's not often I have seen a movie that suffers from such structural and contextual madness as this . I came to this site and noticed that people claim that the truth behind this movie is all down to director Sam Peckinpah making things up as he went along . No doubt Peckinpah loved the Western genre so allowing him total free rein over a movie like this is kind of like letting a child loose in a sweetie shop and will lead to one thing - Disaster No doubt if this had been filmed in the 1970s we'd have seen MAJOR DUNDEE analysed as being a very good example of how the director is the auteur of a movie but in the mid 1960s Hollywood studios didn't allow this type of maverick behaviour so it's highly unlikely anyone made this as freely structured art and the producers should be blamed for a lack of discipline . Plots and characters come and go as if Peckinpah just got bored with them and there's some relatively bloody action . I don't necessarily mean gory action but look carefully at the battle in the river where the river literally runs with blood . In reality how many people would have to die before the water turned that colour ? I also couldn't help noticing the ludicrous dialogue for the Indians , did I hear the last words of " That'll fix them " coming from the chief ? If you're aware of the films of Sam Peckinpah you'll know that he can make an absolutely outstanding movie when he's forced into it , THE WILD BUNCH is arguably the greatest western of all time while CROSS OF IRON is in my opinion the greatest movie set during the second world war but more often than not his films are bizarre exercicises in excess and MAJOR DUNDEE is a good example . It's also one of the few movies where American accents state " We ran from the French "
Not That Good	This is one of these movies that many critics describe as " Unforgettable " while I wonder if I'm watching the same movie . THE LAST SEDUCTION may work as a memorable modern day film noir but can you name any other modern day film noirs from the 1990s ? So there's little to compare this movie amongst equals meaning it becomes slightly better to a critical audience than it really is . What don't I like about it ? 1 ) The femme fatales name for a start . Bridget . Someone somewhere thought this is a name you might associate with a black widow spider . Personally speaking it reminds me a middle aged history teacher . 2 ) The sex . An old fashioned film noir so we get to see some knee trembling outside a bar followed by some filthy talk rumpo in the back of a car . " You're just jealous Theo " . I know I am but film noirs from the 1940s and 50s could survive without sex scenes so why couldn't this ? 3 ) The music . Did someone forget to compose an incidental score ? it's like the director has had to run out to the nearest smoky bar room and got someone to twinkle the ivories . The score is a laughable laid back piano poke 4 ) The ending and no I won't give it away Looking on the bright side when you compare it to its direct to video sequel it's a masterpiece of cinema . Wait till I post my review of THE LAST SEDUCTION 2 then you will see how merciless my reviews can be
Good Straight To Video Film	THE LAST DAYS OF FRANKIE THE FLY is an entertaining film . It's by no means a classic but everyone plays their parts well enough especially Michael Madsen and I'm somewhat surprised as to why it went straight to video . Think about it for a moment if Martin Scorsese had directed this instead of Peter Markle it'd be called a brilliant romantic comedy thriller , and it does have an extremely Scorsese feel to it . Watch it and you'll see what I mean
Too Sprawling And Shapeless	I think director Edward Zwick has a massive inferiority complex . Primarily a maker of TV shows he sets out to make LEGENDS OF THE FALL the biggest cinematic epic the world had seen for many years and it goes without saying he fails SPOILERS The story starts in 1914 in Montana where one of three Ludlow brothers - Samuel - is getting married to Susannah . All this is accompanied by great cinematography but the music is often intrusive and unwarranted . Not content with marrying a beautiful young woman Samuel and his two other brothers Alfred and Tristan enlist in the Canadian army to fight in the great war where Samuel dies . Alfred and Tristan return to the Montana landscapes where Alfred falls in love with Susannah but it's Tristan who embarks on a sexual relationship with her to the strains of intrusive music , but then Tristan decides to become a hunter on a Pacific island , and after a few years he returns to find Susannah is now married to Alfred who is now a congressman Got the idea ? Got any of the ideas ? There's so many ideas in the above paragraph to keep a Hollywood studio in business for several years . Oh and did I mention that we're only half way through the film or that much of the film centres around Native American mystical mumbo jumbo ? This film makes THE DEER HUNTER look tightly plotted . And I'm sure I missed something . In fact I'm sure I missed everything because I can't recall how all these subplots tie in with each other . What's the reason for the Ludlows being so Anglophile ? Why did Tristan decide to become a hunter ? Oh I forgot to mention that several other of the main characters die which means their relationship to plot becomes superflous in the end . So in the end LEGENDS OF THE FALL is an overproduced mess instead of the epic that Edward Zwick hoped it would be . I'm sorry but sticking a bunch of massive subplots together and setting it to great cinematography and irritating music ( And I can't tell you how annoying I found the music ) most certainly does not make a great film
I'm Confused At The Lack Of Logic	Round about the same time as this film was produced there was a new international court of law set up as to how wars are conducted which led me to believe that RULES OF ENGAGEMENT would point out the ( Im ) practicalities and ( A ) moralities and possible hypocrisy of such an international court but all these important ideas are totally ignored in a bland courtroom drama that has gaping holes of logic . SPOILERS First of all if Col Childers is going to be used as a scapegoat then why on earth is he found not guilty , especially when he's got such a poor attorney like Hodge ? , even more confusing when he's being prosecuted by a hotshot prosecueter like Maj Briggs . This doesn't really make sense . Nor is the fact that several Americans were killed in the action . Does that not prove it was self defence ? And as several reviewers have pointed out American forces have done far worse in real life than the scenario seen here . I suppose the screenwriters were told to write a happy ending then the set the rest of the script round that . It doesn't feel like the script was well thought out So just to sum up this could have been a really good thought provoking anti-war pro-soldier drama on the nation state Vs international law , but it's just a dumb court room drama
Good Cast . Not A Good Film	What a good cast . Burt Lancaster , Dennis Hopper , John Hurt who is probably Britain's greatest living actor - why hasn't he been knighted ? and Rutger Hauer before he became known as Rutger " straight to video " Hauer , but the cast never seem to be able to rise above this silly twisty turney cold war thriller . The most disappointing thing is Sam Peckinpah's directing which is so cold and mechanical you'd think Tony Scott made this . If you want Peckinpah at his best try THE WILD BUNCH , THE GETAWAY , or CROSS OF IRON . If you want Peckinpah at his most excessive try STRAW DOGS or BRING ME THE HEAD OF ALFREDO GARCIA . And if you want Peckinpah on an off day then watch this . A very poor swansong for one of cinema's great mavericks
When You've Seen One Meteor Movie . . .	The one thing I dislike about Sean Connery is his inability to pick a decent script , I mean just think of all the substandard movies he's starred in . I imagine though when big Sean saw the script for METEOR he thought he might be onto a winner seeing as it was a sci-fi disaster movie and these two genres were all the rage in the 1970s . Unfortunately by the time this was released the disaster genre had been killed off by turkeys like THE SWARM and THE CASSANDRA CROSSING while many sci-fi films were being produced solely to cash in on the success of STAR WARS with quality science fiction taking a back seat . By 1979 I doubt if a cinema audience could stomach another star studded disaster movie , especially if it had SF overtones as did THE SWARM and THE CASSANDRA CROSSING before itAs was later shown in other meteor films like the sentimental one with Robert Duvall and Morgan Freeman and that one with Bruce Willis , ( You know the one that was utter crap ) the problem is the audience is left twiddiling their thumbs waiting for the meteor to hit planet Earth at the end therefore the story has nowhere to go which makes for a very predictable movie , and METEOR isn't helped by its less than special effects . Does anyone remember that 1960s British movie GORGO ? Remember when people were getting crushed by falling rubble and it was so obvious that the rubble was falling masonary superimposed over the camera ? Well here the exact same technique is used to show a mighty avalance and a gigantic tidal wave enveloping densely packed population centres . It probably didn't look all that convincing in 1979 and it looks laughably fake todayMETEOR is just another disaster movie but it lasts for less than two hours so perhaps we should br greatful for that
Just As The TV Series	This is just like the classic TV comedy , in fact it's exactly like the classic TV comedy and your opinion of this film version all comes down to what you thought of the show . My own opinion is that it's a little bit too gentle for my taste , but unlike many film spin offs from TV shows at least it's recognisable with the characters played by the same actors who played them on television , compare this with the big screen versions of THE FUGITIVE , LOST IN SPACE etc The film is basically split into three parts . The first part sets up the formation of the home guard platoon , the continuity here differs slightly from the first episode broadcast in 1968 but it is rather similar to the original episode , the second part features the platoon going on a training excersise while the third part features a hostage situation with some downed Luftwaffe crew . I don't know if it's coincidence but the best remembered episode of the series was the one featuring a U-Boat crew in a hostage situation , the two plots are very very similar . So to sum up if you loved the BBC's DADS ARMY you'll certainly like this film version
Connery's Worst Bond Outing	For many people James Bond is Sean Connery but that doesn't mean a Bond film is an instant classic because Connery is in it . DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER is barely watchable enough , just think how bad it could have been without Big Sean SPOILERS What I hate about this film is there is no internal continuity with OHMSS . Blofeld killed Bond's wife in the previous movie and it starts with Bond on the revenge trail where Bond apparently kills Blofeld in the pre title sequence , but as the film continues and it's revealed Blofeld isn't really dead all that's gone before is quickly forgotten about as if it never happened in the first place . If they were going to ignore all this then why couldn't the producers just kill off Blofeld and introduce another meglomanaic villain . Like wise Charles Gray's performance is totally unconvincing , can you imagine Donald Plesance from YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE appearing in drag smoking a cigarette from a holder in an entirely camp manner ? The production values are also very poor . The script resembles one of the latter Moore films where lots of things may happen but serves to disguise the fact that there is nothing happening plot wise . Are Blofeld's henchman SPECTRE ? If so it's never mentioned on screen and I found their garish uniforms of pale blue jumpsuits and red helmets both irritating and laughable . Jill St John plays one of the most forgettable Bond girls and director Guy Hamilton has a real bad off day especially during the action climax featuring the superimposed explosions of helicoptersThere are a couple of good points about DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER which stop it from being a contender for worst Bond film . There is the welcome return of Connery in the lead and I couldn't help but enjoy the inclusion of a couple of gay hitmen , the scene where one of them is dispatched with a bomb between his legs still brings a wry smile to my face though Bond's wise crack after this causes me to groan out loud
I Remember the Strange Circumstances In Which I Saw This	From 1987-88 I used to attend the James Watt College in Greenock . I got there by by traveling on a ferry from Rothesay to Wemyss Bay and then catching a bus from Wemyss bay to Greenock . Unfortunately one day I returned from Greenock to Wemyss Bay there was a gusty wind which meant the ferry to Rothesay was cancelled and I had no money for a hotel . Fortunately myself and several other hapless travellers were allowed to stay in the Cal Mac ( the Ferry operators ) office for the night , there were cups , a kettle , T-bags and a television so we , the captive audience , sat back to watch DOWN WHERE THE BUFFALO ROAM Since the drama was mostly set in Greenock ship yards I recognised the locations at once . Strange as it may seem I had no idea who the lead actor was . I'd never seen MEAN STREETS or TAXI DRIVER at this point in my life while RESERVIOR DOGS , PULP FICTION and THE PIANO were still to be made so the name Harvey Keitel meant nothing to me . My comrades for the night laughed out loud but I wasn't too impressed , it's a very low concept drama featuring Keitel's tough shore patrol policeman married to a Scottish girl with lots of domestic angst . Nothing much happens though I do congratulate Peter Mcdougall for pointing out that Americans stationed at The Holy Loch military base weren't very popular with the locals . It was very , very common for serious fights to break out between Scots and Americans at weekends Oh and I think Dinky Donk is having a laugh
Disappointing	AFTERMATH is the final edited BBC video release from BLAKES 7 comprising three episodes , all of which are from series 3 Aftermath : The Terran Federation battle an alien invasion fleet from Andromeda . The crew of the Liberator evacuate the shipPowerplay : Avon teleports back to the Liberator only to find it's been taken over by a Federation death squad Sarcophagus : Avon and Vila bring back a trinket from a derelict spacecraft which leads to great danger for the crew AFTERMATH starts with an inter-galatic war between humanity and the Andromedans . Unfortunately most of the background to this is set up in Star One the episode that ended season two of the show and more or less Blakes involvement in the saga who is only referred to in a throwaway line . The video starts with a space battle and unless you're a fan you won't have any idea what is happening plot wise . Aftermath and Powerplay concentrate on setting up two new characters Dayna and Tarrant rather than telling good stories , but at least they feel like they've been structured as one continuing story unlike Sarcophagus by Tanith Lee which is one of the best episodes of the series , full of great dialogue and character interaction but has very little in common with the first two Terry Nation episodes . I also have to admit I was never all that keen on series 3 anyway and preferred it when Blake was the main character with Avon as the complex anti hero . From here on Avon was the programme's main figureAfter this video release the BBC decided to release all 52 episodes of the show on video which was much appreciated
Not All That Good But Not All That Bad Either	Urban alienation , lousy service in shops and worst of all the absolute apathy from society , boy as an angry not so young man I should be able to connect with FALLING DOWN in the same way I connected with TAXI DRIVER but somehow failed to I'm not the only person who failed to connect with FALLING DOWN . I remember when the movie was released in the States it made a lot of money at the box office but many critics absolutely despised it with many of them criticising the movie for having racist overtones . I think they're over reacting , America does suffer from gangs drive by shootings , ethnic divides , massive gaps between rich and poor etc and the film does point this out but my problem with it isn't that Ebbe Roe Smith mentions this , but mentions it in a totally heavy handed way . His script is also somewhat unfocussed . Logically speaking the film should play out like a Roger Waters or Matt Johnson soundtrack of a man being crushed by the unfairness of life but the script mixes in too many themes and tones to work and there's a scene in an army surplus store that feels it should belong to an entirely different movie . For the most part director Joel Schumacher can't really be blamed for this film's flaws and I find it totally ridiculous that he has a reputation as one of Hollywood's worst directors . Come on it's not like he's Michael Bay , Victor Salva or Jan De Bont . My only real criticism of Schumacher is that D-Fens doesn't really come across as bitter enough on screen or that the cop trying to catch him doesn't seem intense enough . Maybe the director should have cast Jack Nicolson in one of the roles or swapped the roles around for Douglas and Duvall . A not very good movie spoiled by the script rather than the direction
Come On Chaps It's Not That Bad	I couldn't fail to notice the very harsh comments CURSE OF THE TALISMAN is getting on this page . Okay I admit a film featuring stone gargoyles from ye olde England turning up in Australia with murder on their mind isn't going to be a classic movie but there were two things I should point out to everyone 1 ) The lack of gore . So it's a TVM therefore there's restrictions , but regardless of why it's a nice change to see a horror movie without arms and legs getting bitten off every five minutes 2 ) Praise the lord there's no CGI . As far as I could see the gargoyle effects were achieved by stop frame animation . I hope to see this special effect reintroduced into all films that require it because I got fed up with CGI in nineteen ninety something Oh and weren't those gargoyles cute ?
Has A Bizarre Feel	Harold Guppy leaves the navy and lodges with the Beasley family . Before he's unpacked his case he's bonking the middle aged Majorie Beasley and before he knows it the daughter , the thirteen year old Joyce Beasley is wanting a shot Does this sound like a movie with a lot of potential of laughs ? I didn't think so either but for some reason writer / director Philip Goodhew has gone all out to make INTIMATE RELATIONS a tragic black farce . I have to admit that I didn't laugh once or even feel like smiling as I imagine was Goodhew's intention , I just kept saying to myself " Gawd some people deserve to be strung up " , I can't think of a movie I've seen recently with so many unlikable people . It should also be pointed out that the very serious ending jars with the saucy postcard humour of the rest of the filmI will give the director some credit for getting the best out of the cast . Rupert Graves manages to communicate the angst of his character Harold Guppy rather well while Julie Walters is also good as Majorie , but the late Laura Sadler is absolutely superb as young Joyce But the cast are unable to stop me thinking that perhaps this is a movie that shouldn't have been made , especially with its comedic feel
I Guess The Premise Was Good	minor spoilers Without doubt the best scene in DAMNATION ALLEY is the one set in the control room as the airforce men stand in stunned silence as the major cities of the USA are nuked . I don't think as some critics have said that this scene is bland , it's because the people in the control room are shocked that world war 3 has broken out and realise that civilisation has ended , it's a very understated and haunting scene . Alas however as soon as the exposition subtitles come up ( And very purple prose they are too . They match the colour of the sky ) the film quickly falls apart . Two of the characters have now left the airforce which doesn't strike me as being logical . After a major event , and they don't come much more major than global thermonuclear conflict I'd have thought , wouldn't martial law be introduced ? If so would servicemen be allowed to leave the forces when they felt like it ? And aren't any men on the base related to anyone ? This really stuck in my mind that no one ever mentions loved ones who must have been wiped out during the war . Maybe they were married to the guests on THE JERRY SPRINGER SHOW ? If so I guess nuclear holocaust does have its plus pointsThe film then turns into an epic quest adventure but if you're expecting LORD OF THE RINGS don't hold your breathe because it all becomes both silly and boring B movie stuff with the only point of interest being the line about killer cockroaches which made me laugh out loud . And I felt cheated by the upbeat happy ending . Strangely enough if you look up the resumes of the two screenwriters you'll find they have a very good track record of writing intelligent involving scripts so what went wrong here ? One last point . Watch the scene where Jan Michael Vincent is riding about the desert evading the crap superimposed mutant scorpians . He's supposedly driving around with a mannequin on the back of his motorbike but if you look closely just before he throws it off you can quite clearly see it's an actress / stuntwomen of latino / native American ethnicity
There's Such A Thing As Too Much Publicity	DOCTOR WHO : A NEW DIMENSION was produced and broadcast to tie in with the new series of DOCTOR WHO , a show that is a British television legend . The publicity afforded to this revolutionary reinvention of a TV classic was unprecedented . For several weeks before transmission we saw trailers galore , Billboards all over London advertised the return , Christopher Eccleston was interviewed on programmes as diverse as BLUE PETER , TONIGHT WITH JONATHAN ROSS and the BBC SIX O'CLOCK NEWS . Unfortunately perhaps DOCTOR WHO : A NEW DIMENSION was a programme too far On the surface it's just another documentary publicising the show and to be honest this is still a good idea for introducing people new to the show . If you were born in the late 1980s you unlike millions of people will have missed on on the Doctor's adventures as a child and executive producer Russell T Davies wants the show to appeal mainly to children . Fair enough and we get the usual interviews from former companions and clips from the old show along with new clips and it's the new clips I had a serious problem with - They reveal far too much . The Doctor gets attacked by an Autons hand in Rose's flat . " So what ? " you say . Well this was broadcast less than two hours before the episode and gives away the shock of seeing the Doctor attacked by an Autons hand . Likewise the Dalek extermination effect is impressive shown out of context but is even more impressive shown in context so once again the surprise is ruined In many ways watching DOCTOR WHO : A NEW DIMENSION is a precursor to the mistake the BBC would later make in their " Next Episode " trailers and that is that too much information is revealed . Watching the classic series you'll remember the director and writer would construct the episode so that the monster wouldn't be revealed early on thereby keeping the audience in a state of suspense . Unfortunately this documentary spoiled some of the surprises of the new series as does the " Next Episode " trailer which fans are growing to detest
Rather Mediocre Sequel	Did someone say Universal Studios bought the rights to CHILD'S PLAY from MGM ? If so I'd say it was MGM who showed business savvy . The original - which I haven't seen in years - does contain instinctively fond memories but I'm not sure to give much credence to my memories . I should also point out there's a very 80s seen it all before feel to this sequel . Wise cracking monsters that murder and mutilate humans ? We saw that in the NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET and HELLRAISER franchises . Was anyone expecting this type of horror to last well in to the 21st Century ? neither did I . Pity Universal Studios didn't give me a job because I could have stopped them losing money There's also another aspect that's wrong and that's the audience identification . The story revolves around possessed doll Chucky trying to track down a young boy called Andy . Hmmm a horror film where the audience are supposed to relate to a child ! Fair enough if it was a children's movie but it's not so couldn't the producers come up with the protagonist being a more mature character ? To be fair they do have a teenage girl as the heroine but she's not technically the main character . Couldn't Andy have been dropped altogether in the draft stage and have Kyle as the protagonist ? There's also a feel that there's a fair bit of slumming from the cast . I've no idea why Brad Dourif didn't become a big name after ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST and show's you how far he fell when he's probably best remembered as being the voice of Chucky instead of his roles in NEST and THE TWO TOWERS . Jenny Agutter is a surprise casting choice being a well known name and the fact that her character's death receives no build up or impact aesthetic tell's you all you need to know as to how ill thought out this mediocre sequel is
Spielberg Directs Star Bores	This came close to breaking box office records when it was released in 1977 but for the life of me I have no idea why . I disliked this movie upon seeing on its British television premiere one Christmas ( In those days the only time you'd get to see a good movie on television was at Christmas or Easter ) in the early 1980s and after seeing it again earlier today I now know why I disliked it - It was directed by Steven Spielberg I'm sorry to be a heretic but has there ever been a more overrated director ? With CLOSE ENCOUNTERS we see all the flaws of Spielberg's work 1 ) Shot duration - Notice how the camera stays locked onto a scene ? Take for example a scene early in the film where the Neary family make small talk ? There's no inter cutting in the scene as the camera holds still for a couple of minutes . I may be wrong but it might in fact be shorter than a couple of minutes but feels far longer . There doesn't seem to be a single scene in the whole movie that doesn't suffer from this flaw which means the entire film feels painfully longer than it actually is . To give you an idea of how bad this is cast your mind back to the first time you saw the special edition . Didn't you ask yourself if there was any difference between the original and special editions ? I know I did , and compare the special edition of CLOSE ENCOUNTERS to the special edition of ALIENS or the extended releases of LORD OF THE RINGS and you'll realise the original version of CLOSE ENCOUNTERS is a very badly edited movie that suffers from overlong shot duration and most of Spielberg's other movies , especially AI , suffer from this directorial flaw 2 ) The score - I can understand Spielberg rehiring John Williams after the superb work the composer did with JAWS but if he did such a good job with JAWS why did Spielberg allow him to get away with a mediocre score here ? The alien spaceship theme is memorable but the other music in the film is very irritating because despite being intrusive it fails to convey what the audience should be feeling and eventually sounds like an orchestral dirge . It's also interesting to note that while Hans Zimmer and Howard Shore are head and shoulders above Williams as a composer Spielberg still continues to hire him for every film he directs and I've no idea why . This movie should have ended the partnership 3 ) Mawkish family sentiment - Being a Spielberg movie means we have to endure American apple pie family scenes and my god it's an endurance . Living in Scotland I fail to connect with these middle American families but I guess if you live in middle America you'd probably fail to recognise these type of characters also . I notice Spielberg's latest release WAR OF THE WORLDS has shoehorned an American family into the narrative when the original novel worked well enough without an American dad and daughter Sorry if you're reading this Steven , I hope this criticism hasn't ruined my career as a Hollywood screenwriter and I realise that it's not entirely your fault since a movie about benign aliens isn't going to impress a lot of critics so lets blame the producers . I mean we see people being abducted by alien spaceships which was the premise of UFO . Despite the overall flaws of that Gerry Anderson series the idea of aliens abducting humans so they can steal their organs is a scary and compelling idea . Unfortunately there's no such horrible goings on here as we're treated to a happy ending . Likewise the government conspiracies of keeping alien contacts secret is very twee after seeing numerous episodes of THE X FILES , in this movie nosy people don't meet a violent death at the hands of government spooks Can you imagine how much better this film might have been if it had been produced as UFO meets THE X FILES ? In fact it'd probably have increased Spielberg's standing amongst a lot of people including myself . But as it stands I think this movie is summed up best as STAR BORES
Not Sure What To Make Of This TVM	IF LOOKS COULD KILL is a strange TVM . Based on a true story the central premise is fascinating . A bisexual hustler talks his sugar daddy lover into carrying out a life insurance scam in which a real body needs to be produced and so begins a compelling story . The problem is that being a TVM we're treated to umpteen flaws . For example there's scenes that the director thought we're supposed to be sexy but we get these stupid jump cuts that we see in erotic anthology shows like HOT LINE and PASSION COVE that are anything but sexy . The director also manages to get uneven performances from the cast , the lead actor who plays John Hawkins gives a rather shallow performance but I guess Hawkins was shallow as a person in which case it's a good performance but Brad Dourif is very irritating as a neurotic queen with a crap Southern accent I also have a problem with the script , as I said the premise is good but is never developed to its full potential . Did Hawkins manage to elude the law because he was so clever or was it because the police lacked resources or were just plain incompetent ? These issues are never fully explored and since John Walsh ( If you like many Brits have never heard of him you might like to take the time to research his bio ) is credited as executive producer there's an uneasy feeling that perhaps his involvement in the case is overstatedOverall this is an irritating and unsatisfying made for television movie . With better production values it might have been a darker , more disturbing precursor to CATCH ME IF YOU CAN but as it stands it's rather forgettable and mediocre which is a pity
A Lapse In Logic	! ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Bob has described the plot of this short film very well - On some rural island in Ireland a son decides to treat his mother to a trip on the mainland but things don't go according to planThis deals with tragedy when when the tractor carrying the son and mother breaks down so the son goes to get some water for the overheating radiator , but this is the bit I don't understand . He returns with the water puts it in the radiator but for some reason this doesn't make the tractor work and the tide starts to come in . Wouldn't both of these characters realised they'd be trapped by the incoming water and decided to make a run for the coast ? Strangely they nonchalantly stand beside the broken down tractor while they had a chance to escape . There's another illogical moment when the other son gets into a boat to search for them . Surely there's only one route from the island to mainland ? Surely he'd have been able to spot the half submerged tractor from a considerable distance ? I guess if THE BIRTHDAY has a subtext it's one of Christian morality . For example perhaps it's suggested that the brother who carried out the search had been drinking and had he been sober he would have spotted the stranded relatives , but I'm not sure if that's what's being said . Likewise there might be a theme of catholic guilt in the final scene but being a devout atheist I've never really understood the concept of catholic guilt . But this is a fair enough short film which should certainly appeal to fans of the medium
Cor Blimey Guv , It's French Nazis	France in the early 1940s was hell on earth . Nazis would round up Jews and execute them in cold blood . We know this because this is how THE STATEMENT begins . What we didn't know was that London geezers participated in the cruel murders . It's so obvious you can't ignore it because the victims are told to stand against the wall as in " Cor blimey guv . If it ain't a bunch of Jewish geezers we're going to murder . And after I've murdered them I'll be popping up the apple and pears to see me old china Mary Poppins for a rendition of me old bamboo and knees up mother brown " For goodness sake if you're going to portray French people then please get someone to at least try and make a go of a French or vaguely European accent . Words fail to describe how bad the opening sequence is having Michael Caine dub over a French character . At best it's unintentionally funny , at worst it's offensive . Seeing characters being murdered due to their perceived race is no laughing matter As for the rest of the film it's beautifully shot but boring and once again I have to point out that not one single character sounds like they're French . Not only that you're never even convinced that Tilda Swinton's character is female , her dialogue seems as if it's written for a man . It's also without doubt the worst film Michael Caine has starred in for several years and his bizarre out of place performance reflects this
Has Its Moments . . . .	. . . . But at the end of the day THELMA AND LOUISE is a chick flick road movie that strikes a chord with women so it's difficult for a man , especially a cynical hetrosexist one like myself to empathise with . I couldn't help noticing how routinely Ridley Scott directs this movie , it's not badly directed and unlike a lot of other Scott movies he concentrates on directing his actors , but compare the visuals in this to movies like ALIEN , BLADE RUNNER , GLADIATOR and BLACK HAWK DOWN and you'll notice apart from the very end there's little imagery involved
A Film So Bad It's Obscene	TITANIC is actually two films . The first film is a very unlikely love story so syrupy it can cause diabetes . Then it suddenly mutates into a James Bond film where - wait for this - Bond is played by Kate Winslet . Maybe this isn't entirely accurate because James is total fantasy , but never becomes as unbelievable as this . Oh and at least in a Bond film the Brits are the good guys unlike here where they are invaribly cruel , stupid and / or cowardly . Also at no point in a Bond film does a script change the laws of physics where it's possible for someone to escape from the undercurrants of a ship weighing thousands of tons . Oh and the special effects are better in Bond films , TITANIC's are not entirely convincing . But the most fantastic thing about TITANIC isn't the fact it made so much money at the box office ( This is explained by 14 year old girls lining up at the cinema to watch Leonardo for the 25th time ) but the fact this film won 11 ( Yes Eleven . You read that right ) Oscars , equalling the total held by BEN HUR . What the hell were the Academy thinking ? I know they didn't give any awards for the quality of the acting or even nominated the screenplay for an Oscar ( They got that right . Boy did they get that right ) but for it to win 11 Oscars including Best Picture ( Didn't any of the voters watch LA CONFIDENTIAL ? ) really upset me because films like GONE WITH THE WIND , etc didn't get that many
Far Better Than I Expected	Lenny Henry is a comedian I have a lot of time for , everytime I see him on the telly I say to myself " Time for a bath " or " Time to mow the lawn " or " Time to go to bed " In short he's one of the most unfunny men ever to have his own BBC show so I was expecting TRUE IDENTITY to be a major road accident involving a star vehicle . I was nicely surprisedDid someone say this was originally written for Eddie Murphy ? I must say that as Miles Pope Henry is actually an improvement over Murphy . Can't you just imagine Murphy going way , way over the top in the role with the words " Motherfer " appearing in every second sentence . Instead Henry makes Pope a likable affable loser who is very easy to like and boy does he make a very convincing white man . I bet Michael Jackson is asking the make-up team on this movie how it's done Much of the credit of the film's enjoyment for me is simply down to the script . It's beatifully paced and contains a lot of scenes that had me gasping " How is Miles going to talk himself out of this situation ? " . If I have a complaint it's that we don't see enough of Miles as a white mafia hitman All in all a very entertaining comedy thriller , it's not a classic and maybe my praise is down to the fact I was expecting to give TRUE IDENTITY but it did keep my attention and gets
I Have Some Reservations With This Movie	This was broadcast on channel 4 at the unlikely time of 2 . 30 am and since this is the type of time slot that TV guides under report I visited this site to find out what the movie was about and what sort of reception it received . It got fair critical acclaim from the views on this page so I sat back to watch it expecting a good movie but after seeing it I was left feeling disappointed Being an independent movie ( Am I allowed to make puns about " Indie cinema " ? ) there's not much cash to build a story upon but even so the story is rather threadbare . Two Native Americans Victor Joseph ( No I don't know what he's doing with a Jewish name either ) and Thomas Builds - The - Fire get some bad news about Victor's father so depart on a journey . SMOKE SIGNALS is essentially a road movie that's character driven and as for characters Thomas steals the show . He is an ubergeek who keeps the art of American Indian storytelling alive , except for the fact no one likes his story . Perhaps this is a comedic turn on Indian stereotypes . I remember a few years ago during the Isle Of Bute International Folk Festival we had an Native American chief tell the legends and history of the Native American people . From what I read in the local paper not one single person left the venue without tears in their eyes , so poignant were the tales . Listening to Thomas you'll similarily burst into tears after hearing his stories - Tears of boredom that is ! The dialogue works very well . Thomas mentions that the worst cowboy was John Wayne because he never smiled and you can never trust anyone who never smiles . If you've seen a John Wayne movie you'll know this isn't true though perhaps you should never trust a cowboy who can't act ! The acting is fairly good and as you might expect Evan Adams has a peach of a role as Thomas and he plays his part to perfection . Unfortunately the Native American accents sound bizarre to me and resemble a strange Irish dialect to my ears and there's no escaping the fact that there's not much happening plot wise . I should also point out that I'd seen MIDNIGHT COWBOY a couple of days previously and since that movie starts with a wild west parody character catching a bus this might have caused some conscious comparisons
A Somewhat Uninvolving Short	ROGER ROCKET BOY is a short film that follows the life of the title character who reads themed comic books involving rockets going to the moon . I can relate to this because the first book I ever read at school was about astronauts going to the moon though as I got slightly older I realised that rockets were outmoded and traveling by Tardis was the only way to get about ! There's little dialogue in this story and though Roger's mother ( A fitness fanatic ) speaks here dialogue is incomprehensible and the only lines the audience can understand are confined to one of Roger's schoolmates and Roger's dear departed father . The scenes which feature Roger's father are somewhat confusing and unexplained and left me scratching my head as to what the story was trying to say and this strand is probably unnecessary Despite the upbeat ending ( Which was slightly predictable ) and a subtext featuring childhood idealism ROGER ROCKET BOY is a not very impressive short , though I hasten to add much of this might be down to the standard of short films BBC 2 has been broadcasting this month . After seeing TEN STEPS a few days previously any short film will pale beside it
Putting Words Into Other Peoples Mouths	FONG SAI YUK is known as THE LEGEND in Britain and was broadcast on BBC 1 earlier tonight probably because it ties in with the release of Jet Li's up coming HERO and since we're also treated to an athletics contest very early into the film I guess someone thought it might have been a good idea to broadcast it after the BBC's Olympic coverage THE LEGEND isn't a bad martial arts movie , it features romance , comedy and action which is what entertainment is all about . It's not going to win any Oscars and is in no way comparable to CROUCHING TIGER , HIDDEN DRAGON ( There's a few revealing errors which adds to its entertainment value ) but at least it's not as irritating as all those Jackie Chan and Jean Claude Van Damme star vehicles . There is one problem to THE LEGEND and that is the dubbing on the English language version - It's quite awful . We see 70 year old men , their voices dubbed by actors who sound like their straight out of high school while their is no emotion or inflexion put into their voices . It's quite ridiculous watching characters screaming and bawling on screen with their dubbed voices being calm and relaxed to the point of politeness . Unfortunately it's not as funny as it sounds
I Expected Too Much	Having the director of DAS BOOT adapt a true story of man versus the cruel sea is a brilliant idea on paper but celluloid it disappoints . I was going to blame the studio for making a film unapologetically commercial with its marketable pop song soundtrack , and its hunky male stars cast to appeal to a female audience along with tedious sub plots featuring wives and children , but seeing as Wolfgang Petersen also receives a producer's credit maybe he deserves most of the blame , certainly as director he's responsible for far too many talkative scenes along with irritating intrusive incidental music , something which also spoiled OUTBREAK . In fact I get the impression Petersen caters far too much towards commercial doctrines in all his American films Wolfgang Petersen gave us DAS BOOT one of the greatest films Europe has ever produced and I don't think that was a fluke on Petersen's part . He can make movies involving heart stopping tension and human drama but I think he has a certain misinterpretation how obsessed the Hollywood studio system is with spectacle , star names , sentimentality and special effects . It's true to a certain degree that's what Hollywood movies are about , but hopefully one day very soon a prime Hollywood player will tell Petersen he can make a film he wants to make , not one he thinks a Hollywood studio wants to make
A Rather Unconvincing Thriller	Lt Danny Roman is a police negotiator who finds himself accused of murdering a colleague . He believes he's been set up and walks into his local station and takes hostages in order to uncover the truth ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! I have a serious problem with this premise since it erases any type of internal logic . I can believe Danny setting all this up in order to uncover the real criminals but moments stretch all credibility . Danny is a negotiator right ? So surely he must know that the police department will talk to him without taking drastic risks unless he starts killing hostages . BANG Danny kills a hostage which means the SWAT guys are going to come crashing through the windows . Except Danny only pretended to kill a hostage thereby playing a trick on the audience . But the fact remains the cops outside think he's killed a hostage and unless he's trying to get himself killed he logically shouldn't have done that and this isn't the only bit where credibility goes astray . I couldn't help but gasp at the stupid ending where Chris Sabian shoots Danny in order to make it look he's gone over to the villains side . Think about it . Chris shot Danny and Danny plays dead . Danny is lying with a bullet in him not making a sound because if the villain thought he was still alive he'd pump few more bullets in him to make sure he's not going to tell tales . If you've not seen the movie yet let me explain that Danny is NOT wearing a bullet proof vest or anything like that and he has a bullet in him . If someone shot you in the stomach would you be physically able to play dead , not move a muscle , not scream in agony ? Danny can and it's yet another example of having to suspend disbelief in order to enjoy the film . It's one thing introducing shock twists and turns but not if it damages the credibility of the screenplay Most people have praised the cast and Samuel L Jackson is every bit as good as you'd expect him to be . Spacey is as bland as always in my opinion and I'm surprised he was ever a highly regarded actor ( Though there's some justice that we see very little output from him these days ) while the supporting cast are just okay hindered possibly by their very two dimensional characters . Opinions about the film itself are very wide ranging with some people think it's a taut exciting twisting thriller while others describe it as a contrived clichéd movie and I'm certainly in the latter camp . As I said this is a movie that quickly falls apart the more you think about it
Another Disappointing Movie With Zombies	What is it about zombie movies ? The Romero movies had good scripts but were let down by the technical aspects while LIFEFORCE and 28 DAYS LATER were brilliantly directed but had woeful scripts . I thought after watching the first ten minutes of RESIDENT EVIL someone had got the balance right with the opening hook featuring some impressive novelty deaths . The problem is after this good start the movie then spends the next forty minutes going nowhere . We know what's going on because most the audience is aware of the computer game so we have to put up with some seriously uneeded exposition about Alice , the combat team and the Red Queen computer system . What makes it all so annoying is that you're left with the impression that the producers wanted the movie to appeal more to a mainstream audience rather than fans of the game then at the very last minute abandoned their initial instinctsThere are a couple of good aspects that stop RESIDENT EVIL being a total flop , it's good to look at on a visual level while a mainly British cast do manage very convincing American accents , and not all the main characters survive ( watch out for those lazers ) which makes the movie unpredictable . But again I have to point out the movie would have worked better still if the producers ignored the fan boys and made a movie with a wider mainstream appeal . As it stands perhaps the 1970 DOCTOR WHO story Inferno is the greatest piece of fiction featuring zombies
Sub-Standard Film Version	Whenever the BBC has a SF hit on its hands it decides not only to hand out film rights but to hand out film rights where their series will be remade as inferior products like the films based on the QUATERMASS serials or the first two DOCTOR WHO stories to have featured the Daleks , or most disappointingly of all an original screenplay based on the classic DOOMWATCH series . The problem with this screenplay is that it pushes all the regular characters from the show like Dr Ridge into the background while the action revolves around Dr Shaw , a character who never appeared in the series . The story itself - and the budget too for that matter - would have been adequate for a 50 minute episode of the show but seems somewhat stretched out . Ironically if the producers had decided to adapt one of the original BBC scripts like TOMORROW THE RAT instead of having an original screenplay this film might have been a classic
I Was Expecting something Else	Did the Farrelly brothers really make this ? They were the guys who made DUMB AND DUMBER , KINGPIN , ME MYSELF AND IRENE and who made the fantastic THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY , so I was expecting another movie involving cruelty to animals and other offensive topics , but I was rather disappointed . Don't get me wrong this is a very watchable romantic comedy and is more amusing than most comedies coming out of Hollywood but at the end of the day it's just another rom com albeit one with a very interesting premise . It's just that the manic cruelty of the Farrelly brothers is totally missing . I suppose they could defend themselves by saying SHALLOW HAL is their most disciplined , intelligent movie and they'd be right . It's far from being their best movie however
At Least The Female Cast Are Hot	Thankfully the only dodgy thing about LOLITA 2000 is the title . Come to think of it it's a really stupid title for a soft core porn movie which may turn off a potential audience , but take it from me that the cast are well above the age of consent . I should know because watched this movie over and over again , made a note of the cast members names , typed them into an internet search engine to find out their dates of births and I can confirm it's all above board . We're not talking Traci Lords hereAs you'd expect in these type of movies there's a very basic premise that's just an excuse to show some soft core sex , but LOLITA 2000 is better than most simply because the cast look like they might actually be having sex , and boy are the actresses fit with special mention going to Gabriella HallIf I have any complaints it's to do with the sound cutting out during the sex scenes to be replaced by muzak which is my main gripe about all these soft core movies . But I musn't grumble too much because the cast are hot which is not something I can say about many hard core movies
I Liked It	! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! The BBC were going to broadcast WAG THE DOG tonight but recent events in Iraq prevented this ( I really do wonder what planet these schedulers live on . Don't they ever watch the news ? ) so instead the beeb showed DOWN OUT AND DANGEROUS instead . I had no idea what it was going to be about but as the credits started it was pretty obvious it was going to be a TVM . Oh dear not another disease of the week movie please It opens with an affable derelict called Tim begging for money off passers by . An arrogant white collar worker refuses to give any money to this scrounger so gets stabbed to death by him which means Tim is either a psycho or we're watching the rebirth of communism Yep as you can guess this is an everyman gets stalked by a psycho from hell type plot that were dying out as this TVM was being produced so as you can imagine ( And as everyone on this page has said ) there's nothing new here . Mr psycho befriends everyman , is invited into everyman's house does him a few dubious favours , cancels his credit cards , looses him his job and at the climax gets involved in a fight to the death while the hopeless cynical cops ( This bit is based on reality I'm sure ) race to house and arrive 30 seconds too late to prevent good overcoming evil Yes it just follows a formula but what sets it apart from most of these stories is the performance of Richard Thomas who plays Tim with effortless charm . Okay when Tim's in psycho mode it looks like a bad impersonation of Dennis Hopper but most screen psychos do , but strangely this a fairly likable thriller possibly down to the fact it's underplayed
CORONATION STREET Viewers Will Love This	It's often a dangerous sign when a Brit flick opens with a scene featuring an actor who's famous for a role in a soap opera . Does anyone remember that gawd awful movie THE WEDDING TACKLE that had Leslie Grantham from EASTENDERS in it ? Boy that was a really rank movie , so when BOB'S WEEKEND opening scene had Bruce Jones ( Les Battersby from CORONATION STREET ) alarm bells started ringing in my head , a situation not helped when moments later another CORONATION STREET regular ( Samia Ghadie ) appeared in a walk on role . It's also impossible to think of Jones as anyone except Les from CORONATION STREET since being type cast as a regular character from a famous soap does tend to kill off an actors career Despite this BOB'S WEEKEND works because it's like watching a slightly grittier version of CORONATION STREET and it's very easy to recommend this movie to fans of the soap . Bob is almost a clone of Les as eternal failure seems to heap up upon him . There's a scene with Jones and Brian Glover that could have come from a classic episode of the Manchester soap opera followed by a scene that could have easily featured Janice Battersby and a " taxi driver " , with darkly comic scenes coming by the bucketloadI'm not a fan of soap operas but if you like CORONATION STREET you'll enjoy this Brit flick .
John Wyndham Meets Ed Wood	I knew very little about THE ATOMIC SUBMARINE as the opening credits rolled . I was led to believe it was grade z rubbish with a cult following and it's very easy to see how this reputation came about The film starts in the recognisable future where atomic submarines are used as vehicles of commerce and we're shown via some laughably unconvincing special effects of a submarine meeting its doom . Words fail me as to how bad the footage is as a toy submarine in a fish tank is destroyed and this stock footage is continually used throughout the film . It should also be noted that shipping mysteriously disappearing as the first stages of an alien invasion had been used as a premise for John Wyndhams watery masterpiece The Kraken Wakes from a few years earlier and you can't help thinking that TAS was heavily influenced by this intelligent apocalyptic classic Unfortunately both director Spencer Gordon Bennet and screenwriter Orville H Hampton also seem to have been inspired by Ed Woood . Early into the film we're hit over the head by the most intrusive , melodramatic and badly written voice over possible . In screen writing classes you'll be informed that obvious voice over is poor voice over but the narrator goes well beyond bad by referring to things we never see happen on screen . For example we're told that the crew are apprehensive as they sail towards the North Pole which is strange considering most of the crew are unaware what their mission is and are under the impression that it's a routine mission and that problems involving irritation makes themselves felt amongst the crew which is not something that ever appears on screen . Note also the pythonesque map that shows lots of squiggly lines of the submarines route When the sub gets to the bottom of the mystery that a flying saucer is responsible for the sinkings the story does pick up and shows some imagination on the part of the film makers . The basic set of the saucer interior is so effective simply down to the simplicity of the set and Bennet does manage to manage to bring an eerie other worldliness to the mis en scene . The alien itself might seem some what laughable resembling a cross between a penis and a sock puppet but its mission to either kill or kidnap the crew in order to experiment upon them does again mirror the aims of the aliens in The Kraken Wakes and despite the grade z production values these scenes are relatively chilling and one wonders why the rest of the movie couldn't reach this standard All in all this is a very flawed SF adventure . It is very memorable but frequently for the wrong reasons which makes THE ATOMIC SUBMARINE one of the most uneven films you will see . It's very good in places but if you're not a fan of sci-fi B movies you'll not want to watch this but if you're a fan it's a pleasant time waster
Oh Salma . You're So Beautiful	This is an extremely violent film with some absolutely ridiculous acts of violence in it . It's also an extremely silly film too with Quentin Taratino camping it up in a cameo . If it wasn't for a saving grace I would have hated it , hated , hated , hated it The saving grace ? Salma Hayek - She is sooooooooo beautiful , and there's a sex scene with Salma and Antonio Banderas . I was going to say Banderas must have been the luckiest man alive to appear in that scene but he's got my sympathy , after appearing in a sex scene with Salma Hayek the rest of his life must have been an anti-climax . Oh hold on he's appearing in DESPERADO 2 with Salma ! Will there be a sex scene in the sequel ? No one deserves to be that fortunate in lifeDid I mention Salma Hayek's the only reason I watched DESPERADO ?
Reasons For Watching	A soft core erotic thrillerReasons for watching : Caroline Ambrose and Jennifer Hammon are both young and very fit and they both enjoy a long sequence of lesbian love making . Very erotic , and fairly graphic for a soft core film . Reasons for not watching : The production values are very low , the sets are cheap and I don't know if it's the fault of the cinematographer but the picture quality is poor . And there is an fairly nasty thriller sub plot about a psycho killer . Watch it if you want . Just make sure you don't watch it in front of your relatives
Watchable But Entirely Daft Thriller	SECRET SMILE is a thriller that was sold to the TV public of having David Tennant as bad guy Brendan Block and to be totally honest I probably wouldn't have watched this if Tennant hadn't been cast as the tenth actor to play the title character in DOCTOR WHO so I was very interested in seeing how he'd play a villain In this type of thriller , much of the performance of the actor playing the villain makes or breaks the production , the whole story rests on one actor so do I think Tennant pulled it off ? Yes just about but not overwhelmingly . Tennant is good looking , though in a slightly effete way but I can see why he has a growing army of female fans falling over themselves to watch whatever he's in . Tennant plays Block just a little too hard edged and nasty a bit too early on . Wouldn't he have been more convincing if he smiled more and used some undoubted charm to woo characters into being on his side ? Sometimes Tennant plays Block a bit too obvious which led this viewer to wonder why characters were unable to see through his manipulation . Mind you Tennant gives a very good performance in comparison to Kate Ashfield who I thought was fairly wooden ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! But the failings of SECRET SMILE is down to the story . I've never read Sean French's novel so I don't know how it compares to Kate Brooke's adaptation but I'm afraid it's somewhat silly . The first half of the story ( Episode one ) plays out as a lover scorned takes his revenge on the woman who jilted him and manipulates Miranda Cotton's brother into killing himself . Apparently the brother was a manic depressive and manic depressives when stressed stick their fingers in their ears and make wailing noises . I doubt if French or Brooke's are a psychiatrist so perhaps they should have read up on the condition before they committed the character to paper Things get worse in the second half of the story ( Episode two ) but remains highly watchable because of the utterly bizarre plot twists . After courting Miranda's sister Kerry Block then dumps her on their wedding day and marries Miranda's friend Laura instead who then turns up dead in a bath tub . After several more twists and turns that defy comprehension Block rapes Miranda and then murders her and dumps the body and is then given a life sentence for murder and there's a twist at the end which I could see coming a mile away . The end The twist is what SECRET SMILE will be remembered for and I fail to see how it could possibly work in real life . It all rests on Block turning up at Miranda's flat and accepting a glass of wine and the more you think about it the more things fall apart . What you mean you can emigrate to Australia without any references or without any checks being made . Don't the authorities do background checks and wouldn't they realise that the person you're claiming to be got drowned in a bath ? But I guess since he's going to be starring in DOCTOR WHO next year David Tennant had better get used to appearing in drama's with contrived endings . Bad Wolf anyone ?
Clever Thriller	It's a poignant fact that only days after this film was released Christopher Reeve suffered a tragic accident and the headlines were about his last role as a paralysed cop which means it's impossible to watch ABOVE SUSPICION without being reminded of Reeve's real life situation so I'll try and review this movie on its own merits While not being the greatest actor in the world the one thing I have noticed about Christopher Reeve on-screen is that he comes across as being Mr nice guy so it's somewhat surprising to see him starring in a thriller featuring sex , violence and strong language . The plot itself is intriguing enough to hold the attention and revolves around a cop maimed in the line of duty wanting to set himself up for a murder so that his wife will cash in on his life insurance . It's a fairly clever thriller and even though it's a HBO production featuring sex , violence and swearing these elements don't overshadow the plot unlike many other HBO films that drown in excessive violence . That scene in the court at the end made me wince
The Sadism Made It Enjoyable	This would have been improved greatly if the scenario had been developed more . The world has been devestated by a plague / famine sort of apocalypse and the survivors have to kill to keep on living . In many ways it's the sort of premise seen in the works of John Christopher especially THE DEATH OF GRASS and PENDULUM , but unfortunately the causes of this world disaster are never fully explored , and I also guess not having Rudy Giuliani as Mayor of New York didn't help the situation . Of course being an American survivalist drama the story concentrates on action and violence unlike the genre's more thoughtful British counterparts , and this is where THE ULTIMATE WARRIOR comes into its own . The film starts with a stabbing but it's done with a certain amount of novelty . There's also countless more stabbings in the movie not to mention umpteen scenes of people getting thrown off roofs but check out this scene of cruelty : Bad Guy : Anything else you want to tell us ? Traitor : No . AAAAAAARRRRRRGGGGGHHHHOh nasty
One Of The Lesser Shorts	Sorry if I'm hurting anyone's feelings but this is one of the weakest of the L & H shorts . My problem with it is not so much a threadbare plot but the set-up and the coincidence of the husband arriving home at that precise point . Like science fiction comedy relies on sincere credibilty for it to work and sincere credibilty is in short supply when Stan and Ollie sit in a bar when they should be getting the first train out of town . Wouldn't you in the same circumstance ? And the flaws in the script aren't helped by the very stagey performances of the supporting cast . That said both Stan and Ollie greatly rise above the material on display and do give very good slapstick performances with the telephone scene and the duel working simply because L & H have the greatest chemistry of any comedy duo that have ever lived . Even when the scripts aren't very good Stan and Ollie can still bring a grin to my face
" I Did Not Sexually Harass That Women "	American politics ? Very strange concept since Bill Clinton seems to have got up to all sorts of naughty stuff while he was in The White House and nobody it seemed could care less , then during the 2004 Presidential election between Kerry and Dubya the number one issue for voters was " morals " . Is there anything more fickle than an American voter I ask ? THE ABSOLUTE TRUTH centres around Alison Reid a television journalist who senses a story about Presidential candidate Senator Hunter who is such a dirty dog when it comes to women Bill Clinton has to lock up Monica . Oh and at no time is there any ambiguity - Hunter is completely guilty of sexual harassment , anything in a skirt is fair game for Horny Hunter . I think this script might have confused the previous commentator who says the story doesn't make any sense after the shock twist at the end . It does actually make sense but because it's a TVM with Jane Seymour playing Alison Reid the audiences expectation is somewhat shaken when it becomes clear that it's not a self righteous moral story - It's an intelligent amoral story where the media is a double edged sword . I was slightly amazed the way the story turned out since as is often the case with these TVMs it's very run of the mill for the most part but the ending is totally unexpected which lifts THE ABSOLUTE TRUTH above countless other chick flick TVMs
Good Story . . . .	. . . . . But that's all it is , a story . Having watched several documentries on Devil's Island there is some debate on weather Henri Charriere had even been an inmate at the penal colony , or if the claimed incidents happened but they all agree on one thing - none of these incidents actually happened to Charriere , other inmates maybe but not to Charrire . Watching PAPILLON the film ( I've never read the novel . . . sorry book ) it just doesn't ring true POSSIBLE SPOILERS on arrival the inmates are warned about madame guillotine but several times in the film Charriere violently attacks guards and Louis Dega is seen to hit a guard over the head possibly killing him , and these two trouble makers survive captivity and recapture without getting their heads cut off ! Also unlikely is the scene where Charriere and Dega's fellow escapee dies in a very dramatic way - just as Chairrere comes out of a hellhole after spending five years in solitary confinement . How very very convenient to have such a dramatic moment at that particular time , and one of Dega's victims just happens to work in the reception area of the prison leading to some difficult work detail for him and Charriere , man astronomical bad luck just isn't the word . Oh and where's the depiction of " The terrible promiscuity " that History Channel documentaries refer to on Devil's Island ? Controversy as to the veracity of Charriere's book aside PAPILLON is still a rather average film despite its epic qualities , the script is very episodic and disjointed , McQueen gives a brooding performance which isn't exactly bad but neither is it memorable . Hoffman is good as Dega but I can no longer take him seriously because he looks exactly like Adam Clayton the bass player from U2 ! I'm being serious here , watch PAPILLON and look at a photo of U2 post JOSHUA TREE to see what I mean
Complex Or Unfocused ?	The TV guide described TIME OF FAVOUR as thus : " A rabbi's daughter must choose between the man she loves and the man her father wants her to marry " So I sat down to watch a movie that I expected to be a romantic drama , and being an Israeli film I also expected to see some secular Vs religious politics . But this isn't what I got . For the most part the story does indeed play out as a love triangle between the rabbi's daughter on one hand and two friends in the IDF on another , but then about two thirds of the way through it becomes clear that this is a political thriller featuring a bomb plot not too different from something Bruce Willis might have appeared in several years ago . When I say becomes clear I mean after one of the character's gets a bloody good kicking off the Shin Bett , up to this point I was asking myself where on Earth the movie was heading There's two ways of looking at this . One is that TIME OF FAVOR is a highly complex film , the other being that it's a highly unfocused one . I'll give it the benefit of the doubt and say it's complex one . It should also be pointed out that if you have absolutely no knowledge or interest of Israeli politics or culture clash you will be at a loss trying to understand this movie , though it's difficult to imagine someone watching a movie in Hebrew - albeit in subtitles - who doesn't have any interest in Israel
VH1 Produced This Drama	I can't say I'm a fan of the VH1 music channel . MTV2 is more my scene though I've gone off it since they scrapped the viewers request hours . I was very surprised to see that VH1 produced this movie , I knew MTV did but since VH1 is " MTV on mogadon " I wasn't expecting much , but at any early stage AT ANY COST shows it's not going to play out in a predictable mannerOkay there are one or two cliches but this is a fairly cynical film , and the best thing about the movie is Ben , a manager who shafts everyone for the chance of a quick buck . Ben is an utter b @ stard and comes close to being one of the best screen villains I've seen in a while , I promise you you'll hate this guy with a vengance , he makes Simon Cowell look like the kindest man who's ever lived . Just a pity the film ends in a laughably contrived manner , but it's a lot better than I expected
Rather Dated And Melodramatic In Places	What's the problem film critics have with Laurence Olivier ? One of the greatest actors who has ever lived has the reputation as one of the worst film actors of all time ! Okay I don't think playing Jews ( As in THE JAZZ SINGER and BOYS FROM BRAZIL ) was his forte but look at his performances in WUTHERING HEIGHTS and SPARTACUS . These are towering performances without a whiff of ham and if we're talking understated under-rated performances take a look at TERM OF TRIAL SPOILER Olivier plays Graham Weir an alcoholic school teacher who spent the war as a " conchie " and who is taken to court for indecently assaulting one of his female pupils . Olivier plays the role very well but unfortunately this is hardly a great film . Most the problems are down to Peter Glenville's script . For example two male pupils Mitchell and Thompson are written as though they're going to be major characters throughout the movie but disappear totally from the plot in the last third , and there's a problem with Weir's appearance in court at the end , he strangely never takes the witness stand which means it's after he is found guilty that he makes an impassioned speech which causes the victim to tell the truth . Logically Weir should have made the speech as he was being cross examined in the witness boxA fairly good performance by Olivier in a rather melodramatic British film from 1962 . It should also be pointed out DR NO was also released that year which led to the death of the British Kitchen sink drama , but by this time the sub genre was probably past its sell by date anyway
Judge It For What It Is	I remember first seeing this as a ten year old in the mid 1970s and being very confused , you see I was under the impression that this was going to be a war film , but was disappointed there wasn't much fighting in it . I was also utterly confused by the tone of the film as there was bits that I took to be funny but didn't make me laugh I did see THE VIRGIN SOLDIERS a couple of more times when I was much older and understood it better , this is a black comedy , a very black one about the exploits of private Briggs a young soldier doing his national service out in Malaya during the state of emergency in the early 1950s and I guess it's a fairly good indication of what life was like for a great number of young lads inducted into the British army at the time . If the film has a problem being viewed today it's down to the fact that it's difficult not to judge it against Vietnam war films like PLATOON ( Both films feature a plot between two sergeants who hate one another ) and FULL METAL JACKET ( Another black comedy dealing with a conflict in the far east ) , but THE VIRGIN SOLDIERS should be judged on its own merits . I found it as an adult both funny and scathing
Forgivable	As a Scot I really do resent how American movies portray us . We all have incomprehensible accents ( I can't understand a word Scottie from STAR TREK says and I'm Scottish . Perhaps they should have employed a Scottish actor ? ) , we all have funny names like Gregor McGregor ( Randell Wallace is an American with a Scots sounding name , Scots are usually called Jim or Dave ! ) , wear strange skirts called kilts ( We only wear them at weddings ) and play strange instruments called bagpipes . It goes without saying this L & H feature plays up to the stereotypes but seeing as it's Stan and Ollie all this cliche can be forgiven , same as I can forgive all the other flaws one can expect from seeing one of their movies after a period of many years , it's rather episodic and loosely plotted with the main story of Stan and Ollie joining the army not happening untill half way through the movie's running time , but it's also funny and James Finlayson ( A Scottish actor ) getting to play a Scottish Sergeant called " Leatherpuss " By no means one of their greatest highlights - The features seen slightly drawn out compared to their shorts - BONNIE SCOTLAND is still one of the better L & H feature length movies
Irritating Mixture Of Good And Bad	THE LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ is a very irritating mixture of both good and bad . When I say this I don't mean a sophisticated subtext of both good and bad being in the souls of man , I mean good film making and bad film making The Good : Scorsese is a master craftsman and he's trying to make a film that is different from his previous resume . As can be expected the technical aspects like editing , cinematography and score whilst not being outstanding do rise above average . Scorsese casts well and Willem Defoe playing Jesus is an inspired choice as is Romans with British accents and Jews with American accents . The early part of the story where there's a Zionist rebellion and Jesus making crucification crosses for the Roman invaders is something you won't find in the bible but sticks in the mind as does the revisionary biblical scenes The Bad : Despite being different from anything he'd done before there are signs of the flaws that would become criticised for in the 1990s . One is that the movie is just too long , a criticism that can be levelled to CASINO and GANGS OF NEW YORK with some of the story lacking an essential drive . Are all the scenes with people standing around talking all that necessary ? Not as good as that Monty Python film but at least no one claims it's a true story
Hard To Believe But This Is Rather Amusing	It's amazing the number of film franchises there's been in the 1980s and 90s where a relatively good film has been turned into a long running franchise , so long running that the franchise has dirtied the name of the original movie . Take HELLRAISER for example which is a twisted morbid love story which has the iconic Pinhead in only a couple of scenes disappointing people who think he's the star of the movie unlike in later HELLRAISER sequels . DEATH WISH is another movie that you have hazy memories about and rewatching it after a gap of many years you're somewhat surprised that Chuck doesn't run around the streets of a city mowing down crowds of scumbags . HALLOWEEN and NIGHTMARE ON ELM STEET are other movies that would end up mutating into something else but perhaps the best example of sequels spoiling the reputation of the original movie is POLICE ACADEMY Okay the original POLICE ACADEMY isn't Oscar material but it is 90 minutes of solid amusement . A young man called Mahoney has the choice of either becoming a police cadet or going to jail and I guess being a good looking young white boy Mahoney doesn't really have the choice . There that's the set up and it's a simple one perhaps too simple so the screenplay gets padded out with what can best be described as " patchey sketches " . In many ways the film is structured like CADDYSHACK and like CADDYSHACK the jokes may fail more often than not but there's still plenty of laughs involved due to the politically incorrect humour . The best bits feature two redneck recruits called Copeland and Blanks most especially the Blue Oyster Bar scenes and the scene featuring the fence A comedy that is very funny in parts and I'm surprised to have enjoyed it years after seeing it . I ' ve never liked the idea of sequels and like franchise movies even less and when you compare the likes of MISSION TO MOSCOW to the original it proves that turning a fairly good movie into a franchise is one helluva bad idea
Much Darker Than I Expected	Don't ask me how but I was under the impression that this was going to be a chick flick , a sort of THELMA & LOUISE with police cars and a few light hearted moments but within a few minutes my world was shattered with some graphic on screen violence . Yeah okay I also knew that this was a thriller involving a serial killer so gawd knows where I got the idea that it might be somewhat tongue in cheek but I wasn't expecting so much violence . Did I mention this was violent ? I am now and it's also rather disturbing the number of people who get bumped off and the way they die As it stands on its own hind legs COPYCAT isn't too bad but it does suffer slightly in that it was released just after SEVEN and isn't helped by the fact that the highly regarded ( I think it was rather over hyped myself ) SILENCE OF THE LAMBS was still fresh in everyone minds and in these type of movies we see the usual type of plot holes like the heroine who was a great distance away arriving to confront the villain long before her colleagues who were no doubt closer to the crime scene . To give it credit COPYCAT is fairly well acted by the two female leads but is a rather dark and violent movie throughout and becomes rather sadistic by the end
Entertaining Enough But Reminded Me Of Something Else	SPACE COWBOYS is a movie whose plot goes like this : An object is tumbling to Earth which means a rescue mission staffed by unlikely astronauts must go up in a space shuttle to save countless lives . " Where have I heard that plot before ? " you ask yourself . try a couple of years in the past where a bunch of oil riggers led by Bruce Willis went up in a space shuttle to destroy an asteroid hurtling towards Earth . Same plot more or less and you'll be able to shout what the scientific mistakes are too . They're so obvious you can't miss them Thankfully SPACE COWBOYS isn't as shallow or trite as Armageddon but I'm certain no movie could be . This effort from director Eastwood does manage to stand on its own hind legs though . You can believe that when they were younger Frank ( Eastwood ) Hawke ( Jones ) Jerry ( Sutherland ) and Tank ( Garner ) did go into space which far more credible than anything you saw in Armageddon and the cast of this movie are genuinely able to make the audience like their characters - Hands up who thought the asteroid in Armageddon might actually be the good guy if not the best cast member ? By no means a classic SPACE COWBOYS is an old fashioned movie , perhaps a little too old fashioned since it's slightly predictable but is also old fashioned in a good way since it's a movie that is entirely carried by the veteran cast rather than the special effects or outlandish set pieces . In that case it's maybe incomparable to Armageddon after all
Competent Except For Malcovich	I've probably read OF MICE AND MEN more times than I've read any other novel , not because I like it but because for some reason the book is always used in O ' grade ( That's the elementary standard exam used in British schools and was replaced by the GCSE exam round about 1990 ) English learning . I read it many times at school and had to re read it again when I was a student several years later and so I very quickly learned to hate it , especially the over sentimental aspects . The problem I have with this version is John Malkovich's performance . There's not much wrong with Malkovich as an actor and looking at his resume he's undoubtedly Hollywood's most eclectic actor appearing in prestigious productions like THE KILLING FIELDS and EMPIRE OF THE SUN , arthouse flicks like BEING JOHN MALKOVICH and THE SHELTERED SKY and typical Hollywood blockbusters like IN THE LINE OF FIRE and CON AIR , but his performance as Lenny Small is absolutely irritating . He plays the role as if Lenny's a victim of down syndrome who's overdosed while mainlining prozac rather than the pathetic idiot of the book . Why can't actors protraying idiots be subtle ? Producer / actor / director Gary Sinise may be to blame for this but since the scenes not featuring Lenny are at the very least competent I'll lay all the blame at Malkovich's door . Oh and before anyone gets confused I'll point out the reason John Stienbeck's novel OF MICE AND MEN is named thus is after a poem by Scottish bard Robert Burns : " The best laid plans of mice and men most often go astray " . It's got nothing to do with the mouse Lenny holds in the start of the picture
A Bad Idea	BLAKE'S 7 is one of the greatest , most entertaining shows made under the telefantasy banner so what could be better than releasing the first 4 episodes on video ? 4 complete episodes maybe ? That's the problem with BLAKE'S 7 THE BEGINNING , the first full 4 episodes complete would have run to a total of 200 minutes but this video release lasts only two hours which means almost half the material is missing , but I guess the fourth episode ' Time Squad ' was really short on plot in the first place and seeing as most of material of this episode is edited out and still makes perfect sense confirms how much padding there originally was with its only real function being to introduce the character of Cally . As for the rest of the editing it's not too bad with the only real criticism being that the plot line of Blake being framed for paedophillia being mostly cut outIt was a fairly good video when it was released in 1986 and unlike many other videos of TV shows edited into a feature length story BLAKE'S 7 THE BEGINNING actually does feel like a feature length movie structure wise rather than just a bunch of single episodes edited together . Mind you when BBC video released the whole series on unedited video in 1991 this tape became instantly redundant and seems a bad idea in hind sight
Bond Wannabe	Wow Paul Sherman is one badass secret agent . Look what he does to that man in the hotel bedroom , he's someone who takes no prisoners and makes James Bond look like a total wimp . But that's the problem with PUPPET ON A CHAIN , Sven Bertil Taube is no Sean Connery and lacks the presence needed to convincingly play a ruthless secret agent . I also found it strange that if the story is set in Holland that nearly everyone speaks with either an American or British accent except for Paul Sherman who's supposed to be American but has a noticable European accent . Still this is a fairly good , though slightly dumb thriller which does feature go go dancers . How many Bond films can claim that ?
An Inferior Reworking Of GOODFELLAS	CASINO is by no means a bad film but I'm left with with the distinct impression that I'd seen it all before , and it's not the first time director Martin Scorsese has done this , remember THE KING OF COMEDY is an inferior remake of TAXI DRIVER . Robert De Niro plays a very similar role as he did in GOODFELLAS , Joe Pesci plays more or less the same role that earned him an oscar with GOODFELLAS while Scorsese uses the same directorial techniques as he used in GOODFELLAS , but GOODFELLAS is by far the superior film . Taken on it's own CASINO is good . On first seeing it I could remember all the great scenes like the choice between getting the money or the hammer , the cowboy with his feet on the chair , the " Enjoy your meal officers " the scenes of extreme violence and the extremely witty caption of " A few years back " . However seeing it again a couple of years later I realised this film is about an hour too long and became very irritated by myriad of scenes composed of flashy camera work and voice overs SPOILER Most irritating of all if Joe Pesci's character gets killed at the end how is able to do voice overs in the flashbacks ?
What Unlikable People	Let's see if I got this straight ? Nancy invites her former lover Matt and Kim his new partner to stay with her and her husband Wes . Excuse me but how many men would allow their wife to do this ? What you would ? But that's because you'd like to have a wife swap ! Well that's not what I meant , what I meant was . . . oh never mind . On second thoughts that's what Wes might have been thinking of . As soon as you see him you're reminded of that schoolteacher you had , you know the one whose only function in life was to make every kids life a complete misery and I'm certain people like that do so because they're sexual inadequates . Oh and Wes is money obsessed and a rabid non smoker so I guess he needs a vice like wife swapping to give his life some purpose . And Matt what's he all about ? He's a nice guy but he's a middle aged nice guy , he's a fat middle aged guy and he's having it off with Kim a pretty fit girl who's young enough to be his daughter . Like hello Earth to Ken what's it like being a schmuck ? I can't say I can blame Matt since Kim's fit , young and in your face which is a big turn on for most men especially fat middle aged ones . I bet she's great in bed too because she comes across as having plenty of past form , in fact compared to her Monica Lewinsky's a bit frigid . And Nancy ? Well put it like this if someone took an overdose of prozac the doctor's would prescribe a ten minute conversation with Nancy as an antidote . So in BAD MANNERS not only do the characters deserve all they get - they all deserve each other in this talky drama that states God does not play dice
Dubious Moral Stance	As a thriller similar to SOUTHERN COMFORT this movie works very well . Okay FIRST BLOOD is by no means a work of art but it's far better than its ridiculous right wing sequels which involve a thread bare plot of a killing machine getting sent to kill loads of reds . There are one or two technical problems with this original , for example motivation is skipped over : Sheriff Teasle sees Rambo , doesn't like his type in town and decides to give him a lift out of the county . Rambo for some reason decides to head back and is arrested thereby setting up the story . Is there any reason for Rambo wanting to go back to a place where he's not wanted apart from setting up the story ? Brian Dennehy is excellent as the sheriff but Richard Crenna is almost a carichture of an army officer as Col Trautman though he was cast at very short notice so I guess he shouldn't be judged too harshly . Unfortunately Sly Stallone is a hopeless character actor and watching him spout his angst ridden lines made me laugh out loud when in fact we're supposed to burst into tears listening to the experiences of the Vietnam vet . A terrible performance from Stallone in arguably his best filmMy major criticism of FIRST BLOOD isn't down to the acting - It's down to the dubious morality of the screenplay . We're supposed to feel sorry for John Rambo and granted he must have had a terrible time in the ' Nam followed by coming home to be called " Baby killer " or being met by indifference and Teasle and Trautman discuss Vietnam but at no point does anyone point out the obvious fact that politicians were to blame for the conflict . Worse still Teasle is painted as being some kind of bad guy for the audience to dislike . Let's see now Rambo killed one policeman , injured several others and is running around the North West wilderness with a gun and Teasle is trying to capture him at all costs which makes the sheriff is the bad guy for upholding the law ? I've never been convinced that Rambo is an anti hero good guy in say the way James Bond is and this might have something to do with the franchise being vilified by moral guardians who blame violent movies for high crime rates . I do recall newspaper campaigns in Britain trying to ban this movie and the sequels because at one point it seemed every violent nutter had a Rambo movie in their video collection when arrested by the police . I doubt if this movie caused one single crime but it does seem bizarre when cinema makes heroes out of violent killers in morally dubious movies
Summed Up By Berry's Acceptance Speech	It's a well known fact that MONSTER'S BALL won Halle Berry an Oscar for best actress and led to one of the most bizarre sites in the history of the ceremony where Berry shrieked , wept and gnashed her teeth in an uncontrollable manner . She probably wasn't overcome with emotion - She was impersonating the average person's reaction to seeing this film ! Depressing doesn't even begin to sum up this movie . It starts with the domestic life of three generations of prison officers the Grotowski family , two of which give racist redneck scumbags a bad name . A black prisoner is about to be executed and the middle and younger Grotowski ( Hank and Sonny respectively ) are looking after him and these scenes are amongst the most feel good moments of the story ! Words fail to describe what a bleak depressing movie this is . It's about redemption and finding love in the worst of circumstances but it's never entirely convincing . The fate of Sonny Grotowski didn't ring true and in the case of Berry's character just how unlucky can someone be in such a short period of time ? I will congratulate the performances of the cast in this very well acted movie . Billy Bob Thornton is probably best remembered as " one of the men who married Angelina Jolie " but is also one of America's underappricated actors ( His screen writing abilities are also overlooked ) who manages to rise above the sometimes inconsistent material while Halle Berry what can I say ? Apart from that she really did deserve the Oscar . Well regarded character actor and acting guru Peter Boyle might be disappointing as Hank's reactionary father but since his character spends most of his time sitting in a chair slowly dying from respiratory failure he's not given much to do But it should be pointed out once again that this is a very sad and melancholy film that won't have anyone dancing in the aisles I did appreciate the good performances but I doubt I'll be watching it again in a hurry
Very Well Acted	Without doubt Bob Hoskins is one of Britain's greatest living actors but does tend to shoot himself in the foot by appearing in supporting roles in Hollywood flops . Undoubtedly his two greatest performances are as Harold Shand in THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY and as George in MONA LISA . Hoskins is ably supported by his fellow cast , Cathy Tyson who unfortunately ended up being typecast after this film , Robbie Coltrane before he became famous for CRACKER , and Michael Caine who makes a rare but very good cameo appearance . My only real complaint with MONA LISA is the rather violent ending which is somewhat at odds with the rest of this darkly comical film
Is This A Video Nasty ?	I saw this way back in 1983 when it was shown late one night on television , and I'm talking network televison in those days you didn't have satillite or cable at least not in Britain where we were confined to a total of 4 channels . And the most shocking thing was that it contained very strong language , back then very very few films shown on television had swearing left intact but here it was untouched which was amazing when nearly every sentence contains the word " F " though much of the gore and gay sex seems to have been edited ( And badly edited at that ) for transmission especially a shark attack scene where it cuts to a shark fin then cuts to a man waving his bloody stump at the camera then cuts to a couple of fingers floating about the water , very strange and I ESCAPED FROM DEVILS ISLAND also has that low budget production value feel seen so often in video nasties that I can't help feel that it in unedited form it would would be classed as a video nasty . Despite its flaws it's a lot of fun , I can put my hand on heart and say I enjoyed it far more than PAPILLION and we get to see a sadistic guard who calls homosexuals bad names while twisting their nipples . Can't get more sadistic than that
Stardom Vs Narrative	When you've seen one heist film you have seen them all . The plot revolves around 1 ) Introducing the characters 2 ) Explaining how they're going to carry out the heist 3 ) Grab the money and . . . 4 ) Sometimes have a twist at the end What sets this film apart from many others from the same sub-genre is the cast . Okay a heist film needs at least one massive big name to carry it while OCEANS ELEVEN contains four in the shape of Clooney , Damon , Pitt and Roberts who are ably supported by other well known names such as Gould and GarciaDepending upon how you look at it this film is either a failure or a success due to the cast . If you watch movies for the same reasons everyone used to watch classic Hollywood cinema then you will not be disappointed at all . Unfortunate if you're watching for any other reason then you'll notice failings such as the predictable plot or Don Cheadle's incomprehensible accent or the fact that Soderbergh has made a relatively shallow film . But it's another Hollywood Summer blockbuster so it's stupid to complain too much
Show Me The Dummy	Apologies for the above summary since it was too good to miss out on an awful pun . If I were to give an honest one word summary for MAGIC it would be " Bizarre " This a very bizarre film . I am somewhat puzzled by the IMDb classing it in the horror / thriller bracket because it's not really , it's more of a black comedy centered around stand up magician Corky whose life is taken over more and more by a ventriliquist dummy called Fats There are some good aspects to William Goldman's script . The pacing is nice , the dialogue is good while we're also treated to a very witty scene as Corky relates his first night on stage as the action flashes back to a very uninterested audience . However there's no way I could take seriously the central idea of some guy doing card tricks getting any type of crowd adulation or being on the brink of stardom because he introduced a dummy into his act . " Hey you gotta love this guy " - No we don't , , how can you love someone who sticks his hand up a puppet's bottom for a living ? It's bad enough the entertainment business has to suffer David Copperfield and David Blaine . Can you imagine what they'd be like with Rod Hull's Emu on their arm ? Like the script the directing is rather uneven in execution . Richard Attenborough manages to get good performances out of his cast , Anthony Hopkins accent might flit back and forth but he manages to give some indication he's well on the way to becoming one of Britain's greatest living character actors but the inequality of Attenborough's directing of MAGIC can be best summed up with the scene in the boat house with Corky and his agent who tells Corky not to use Fats for 5 minutes . The agent opens the door to leave and the tension is defused when we see that the river and trees outside are a very obvious painted backdrop Still despite all this it's better than CHILD'S PLAY
Patchey Ghost Story	On FILM 88 legendary British film critic Barry Norman reviewed two " horror " movies . One was HELLBOUND : HELLRAISER 2 and the other was LADY IN WHITE . Barry hated HELLBOUND which is unsurprising since he is notoriouslyintolerant of gore and violence but he did praise THE LADY IN WHITE but after finally seeing it I have to admit it's a very patchy movie Much of the problem lies in the film trying to say a little too much . It's set in Willowpoint Falls in 1962 and of course the civil rights campaign is just getting in to flow which means there's a subplot that isn't actually needed . If it'd been set in 1988 you'd have a much more streamlined story . Considering the title of the movie the title character doesn't make an appearance until well into the second half of the running time and up till then GIRL IN PINK would have been a more appropriate title In fact nothing much at all happens until a subplot featuring a ring comes to the fore and when it does the story becomes compelling and exciting and a little bit disturbing . Unfortunately this doesn't happen until something like 15 minutes before the credits start rolling which gives you an idea of how much potential is wasted and that's a great shame
Good Episodes . Bad Idea	DUEL is three episodes from season one of BLAKES 7 edited into a feature length video . BLAKES 7 is one of my all time favourite shows with the first season being the best . Unfortunately as a piece of merchandise the video itself isn't all that good because almost a third of the material is missing and should never have been released this way . This concept wasn't uncommon in the early to mid 1980s and I can also remember episodes of Gerry Anderson's UFO being chopped up this way in order to market them on video . The problem with DUEL is that unlike the previous BLAKES 7 video THE BEGINNING the episodes themselves are self contained which means the structure feels totally wrong if you're watching the video expecting some sort of unepisodic story like you would a feature filmAs For the episodes themself Seek Locate Destroy - Blake and his crew attack the Federation base at Centero and Cally is captured and tortured . A fairly good episode that is best remembered for introducing Servelan and Travis to the showDuel - An etheral superbeing abducts Travis and Blake and pits them against each other to a battle to the death - Another good episode even though it's very similar to the STAR TREK episode Arena . Director Douglas Camfield brings a doom laden atmosphere to the episode Project Avalon - Blake and his crew snatch the rebel Avalon from the clutches of the federation . Another good episode which is very action packed Unfortunately if you read the above synopsis you'll notice that the episodes are somewhat similar plot wise . Like I said DUEL on video it becomes clear that like DOCTOR WHO episodes usually revolve around the good guys getting captured and escaping time and again
Has Dated Poorly	It wasn't until last night that I actually got round to watching TO KILL A MOCKING BIRD . It's something of a legend and is reflected that it's in the IMDb top 250 movies at position 46 but i'm somewhat baffled as to why . Grogory Peck isn't bad but his performance as attorney Atticus Finch is disappointingly one note . He won the best actor Oscar for his role here but it's not a performance that shows that Peck has much range and other actors have failed to win Oscars for better performances through the years . The story itself is inoffensive but very predictable in that you know fine well that the man in the dock is a victim of racism rather than a murderer I truly believe that the only things this film has in its favour is that the child actors are bearable , but so were the children in Charles Laughton's NIGHT OF THE HUNTER , which despite being a masterpiece , did not come close to achieving the commercial and critical acclaim that this film did . We also have the novelty of seeing an unknown actor called Robert Duvall with hair but IMHO it's far from being a classic film . Please don't lynch me because I didn't like it
Hardly Original But Watchable Enough	Originally tonight's late night movie on BBC 1 was going to be the pierce Brosnan thriller DEATH TRAIN but because of a terrible train crash down in England a few days ago the BBC must have changed their mind in a similar way to some US stations changing their mind about showing SAVING PRIVATE RYAN while there's a war on so instead the BBC showed this gritty urban thriller . " The film contains very strong language , violence and scenes viewers may find disturbing " said the announcer which led me to believe the station might have been better of showing a comedy if they were going to change the schedule Yes indeed IN TOO DEEP does contain strong language and scenes of violence , I sure hope the bad guy chalked his pool stick before taking his shot . From the outset it's obvious what the story is about and where it's heading , an undercover cop infiltrates a drugs gang and ends up going native so right away you're reminded of NEW JACK CITY , DONNIE BRASCO and the little seen British thriller I . D . It's hardly ground breaking but it is entertaining enough if you like streetwise urban thrillers . If I have two criticisms it's the clichéd dialogue which sound like the opening sequence of the Aphex Twin music video WINDOW LICKER ( Do all homies talk like this ? ) and the very abrupt ending Six out of Ten
A Documentary Of Two Halves	This follows a bunch of teenage kids competing in the National Spelling Bee something that I didn't actually know existed . Hopefully we won't see a British equivalent because there's nothing we hate more in this country that clever kids . Seriously where I live if your daughter isn't pregnant by 14 and your son hasn't been taken into care you have some how failed as a parent . We make the average American redneck look like Albert Einstien in comparison Maybe that's what I found the first half of SPELLBOUND a real drag as we're introduced to the genuinely proud parents as they talk up their children's achievements . Can there be any bigger turn off than a parent hyping up their child's ability ? I thought not . Hell even Ozzie and Sharon Osbourne are bragging about their offspring's achievements and I doubt if Jack or Kelly could spell their own names so lets not over estimate the abilities of any of the kids in this documentary . But let's not forget that the parents are basking in the glory of their offspring and you can't help but feel this contest is more of an ego trip for the parents more than a public display of child prodigies . If the first half of SPELLBOUND has any saving grace it's that I instantly knew who I'd be cheering for - Ted from a poor Mid West town and Ashley from some inner city smoke , I guess it must be a class thing . And every good story needs a villain , in this case it must be Harry who struck me as a arrogant ubergeek The first half was an ordeal for this viewer but then as soon as the Spelling Bee got underway I was mesmerized by it . I'm by no means stupid but I had never heard of most of the words these kids were asked to spell and I won't be typing any of the words out because I doubt if the spell checker on this site has heard of them either . Boy oh boy what clever kids and it's slightly shameful the winner only gets a trophy , they deserve much more . Oh and there's some very amusing moments like when ubergeek claims that he lost because the guy reading out the words mispronounced something . Let me spell it it out : B-A-D-L-O-S-E-R So if you stumble along this documentary I'd bare in mind that despite its very irritating start it does become a fascinating piece of viewing later on
Sublime	I've always found THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE rather strange . I first saw it round about 1982 when it was broadcast on ITV and discussing it with my school mates the next day we all thought it was rubbish . However it still still stuck out in my mind for some reason and I still watch it when it's broadcast on television and my opinion is that it's still a very disappointing film even though I get the instinct to watch it againThe opening is very effective with scientist Barret being paid a massive amount of money ( In those days ) to spend a week in a haunted house . What makes the opening so effective is the way director John Hough shoots the pre title sequence - Moody and atmospheric are very understated adjectives and having one of the characters being collected from a train station does give the movie some credibility . A character hanging around a cold and dreary train station ! Cinema doesn't get more realistic than this . However as soon as the characters arrive at the house things start going awry , not only to the characters but for a critical audience . First of all how many people do you know that are allowed to take their spouse to work ? I can't really get my head around this for some reason . I also couldn't take Florence Tanner seriously either , I mean she's so young I thought she'd need permission from her parents to stay out late never mind spend a week at a haunted house . It also doesn't help that Ms Tanner is known as a " Mental medium " since the word " Mental " means in British slang a violent looney . And isn't there something illogical about " Physical medium " Ben Fisher ? He survived the previous events at Hell House but has no qualms about going back . He must be insanely brave , or insanely greedy for 100 grand , or it could be that he's an obvious literary device used by the screenwriter for exposition purposes That's probably my main gripe with the movie - the screenplay . I do know that writer Richard Matheson is a legend and I have the deepest respect for most of his output but THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE seems underdeveloped . The characters arrive at the house but with the exception of a dinner table scene nothing that can be described as really nasty takes place . This also ties in with internal continuity and logic . Eight people that Ben Fisher was with died previously at the house but apart from the dinner scene previously mentioned the characters never look like they're going to be in mortal peril from the ghostly spectre . It should also be pointed out that if a bunch of people had come to a sticky end in the house they'd be gangs of policemen , forensic scientists , newspaper hounds and ghoulish members of the public swarming all over the location but for plot convenience the house and grounds are completely deserted , too deserted to be taken seriously for a mass murder site So for the most part THE LEGEND OF HELL HOUSE is slow , dull and full of plot holes . There are a small number of massive positives like the early scenes and Delia Derbyshire and Brian Hodgson's bone chilling muzak ( Ms Derbyshire composed the DOCTOR WHO theme . Enough said ) which do linger in the mind and gives this movie a sublime reputation as a moody spine chiller when memory brings it up . But to be honest it's a disappointing film when re-watched
Don't Believe The Hype - It's Not That Good	RESERVOIR DOGS exploded onto cinema screens in 1992 and I can still remember the shock waves it caused due to the excessive violence . If memory serves me right Glasgow Council came very close to banning it from cinema chains in the city and they weren't alone in trying to do this either as newspaper headlines and word of mouth screamed how violent the movie was as Quentin Tarantino became the most infamous and influential movie director of the mid 1990s . RESERVOIR DOGS was finally allowed a British network TV transmission in the Summer of 1997 on channel 4 . I was rubbing my hands in anticipation at seeing this movie . After seeing the movie I felt disgusted . Not because it was a movie whose violent content had sickened me but because I'd fallen for the hype like a total shmuck . This must be the most overrated movie of the 1990s ! ! ! ! ! SLIGHT SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! First of all the characters meet in a diner . If you're carrying out a heist is it a good idea to gather in a public place where potential witnesses can identify you ? And would a bunch of robbers be interested in discussing the lyrics of Madonna or the films of John Holmes ? It might be cool and trendy to discuss pop culture but in the context of this movie it's illogical . Soon the narrative switches to a warehouse where the robbers have arrived after their disastrous heist and we're treated to some very obvious exposition : " Fin ' sick f . Why'd he do that ? Did you see what he did to that girl ? How old was she ? Nineteen ? Fin ' sick motherfer " After the movie finished this is what bothered me - I had expected the movie to end by showing us the massacre at the bank BUT THIS NEVER HAPPENS ! and I can't describe how cheated I felt . Okay we're shown the various robbers making their getaways but not once are we shown the much referred to robbery itself which made me feel very disappointed , not because I wanted to see teenage girls get murdered but because it instinctively felt like it should have been the centrepiece scene / climax scene of the movieAs for the rest of the movie's reputation for violence it's ill deserved . There's buckets of blood but many , many movies also feature buckets of blood and gore and don't receive half as much attention as RESERVOIR DOGS . Remember the much criticised scene of the cop getting his ear cut off ? Didn't anyone notice that this actually happens off camera ? Ironically enough the only murder that did disturb me - " What this cop ? " BANG - is chilling because it's committed so coldly not because it's graphic in any way . Is there anything I like about RESERVOIR DOGS ? Harvey Keitel is the type of actor I'd watch even if it involved him reading out his shopping list , and the scene where it's revealed who the undercover cop is memorable along with the compelling " How's he going to explain that to the bad guys when they return ? " storyline . But at the end of the day I can't help thinking RESERVOIR DOGS is ruined by its much hyped reputation . WHITE HEAT is a very similar movie and a much better one RESERVOIR DOGS gets six bones out of a possible ten
Very Entertaining	COMBAT SHEEP tells the story of four protagonists , Commander Harris , Peaches , Moose and Cooper , who having served their country now find themselves struggleing to survive in a society that no longer cares about them . Did I mention they were sheep ? This is a very entertaining and amusing one off show . The sheep themselves are very well realised , there's a smattering of satire in the script and it's good to see Christopher Ellison of THE BILL fame sending himself up in the role of a tough CID cop . The only down point is some obvious product placement involving Cooper a sheep with a drink problem who keeps swigging from a brand of lager that's infamous for its super strength . Isn't this meant to be a family show ?
Interesting But Misses Out On A Very Valid Point	Last year seemed to be a battle between FARENHEIT and SUPER SIZE ME for winner of the most controversial documentary award . I know Moore's style , I know Moore's agenda but knew nothing of Morgan Spurlock . Right from the opening scenes of Spurlock's documentary I was impressed by his style , he does engage the audience without resorting to polemical opinion disguised as fact and for that we should be thankful . Spurlock decides to find out why Americans are becoming obese by living on nothing but a menu from a certain fast food chainSo far so good , but is he missing a point I wonder ? American fast food chains are notorious for serving processed food with an incredible high fat high sugar content which probably won't do you any good health wise . But they also serve food in very large portions which is also very good value for money . Think about it for a moment - You go into a fast food chain with a couple of dollars and have a meal high in fat and sugar but the meal itself is relatively cheap . Would you rather spend 50 dollars getting a single meal in an expensive restaurant and leave the table still wanting ? I think most people visit a fast food chain to kill the hunger pangs and still have enough money to pay the bills . Watching Spurlock vomit because he's eaten too much is a kind of back handed compliment to a certain food chain for selling extra large portions Unlike Moore Spurlock doesn't appear to have an axe to grind and does try to be objective . He makes the point that the high rise in obesity may be down to the fact that many American states don't have a compulsory sports syllabus in schools . Certainly this doesn't help to keep children in good health but he then points out another fact that one of the few states that does have compulsory school sports - Illinois - has the third highest rate for childhood obesity in America . Cause and effect ? The problem I do have with SUPER SIZE ME is that Spurlock doesn't exactly hammer home one very valid point - Perhaps the only valid point - as to childhood obesity and that's parenting . When you were a child what was your parents attitude to what you eat ? I know what mines was : If you didn't like what was put down in front of you then too bad and I think perhaps in the Western world this attitude has disappeared , parents are far more likely to give into their children's demands nowadays in search for an easier life . If they like chomping on burgers then so be it if it keeps the little ones quiet . Remember what I said about big portions and cost ? It doesn't really matter if the food itself is far from nutritious as long as it's plentiful and affordable which means for a lot of parents on low incomes it's a practical choice . Over here in Britain the government are actually discussing putting a tax on junk food . Would hitting parents in the pocket change their attitude ? Is it morally right for a government to do this anyway ? Why is healthy organic food infinitely more expensive than unhealthy processed muck ? Just a couple of points that aren't addressed So SUPER SIZE ME is an interesting documentary but a rather flawed one that often works better as entertainment than as a serious film making . It can be informative but doesn't really come up with any answers and blames fast food companies rather than parents for childhood obesity .
Not Too Hot But It Did Try	From the opening sequence I thought I had MELTDOWN nailed as a cross genre film which mixes DEEP IMPACT with a cop thriller . This seemed a strange idea , but that's not how the plot unravels . Apparently the near miss with the asteroid causes the Earth to spin off its axis which leads to the world's temperature rising , rising and rising . So we've got a plot featuring something similar to the novels of Wyndham and John Christopher where a group of people have to find sanctuary or else they'll join most of the world's population in dying a slow terrible death I can't say MELTDOWN is a great apocalypse movie but since it's a direct to video / DVD film therefore lacking a big budget it's a relatively good meaningless time waster . My only real problem is a line of dialogue spouted by the scientist character in the sewer which happens half way the running time which will you leave you gasping " oh dear I think they've given away the ending ! "
One Of The Better Bond Films	LIVE AND LET DIE is an improvement over the two preceding Bond films . Humour is kept in its place , Guy Hamilton doesn't reach the artistic heights of GOLDFINGER but improves on DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER , the plot has a relatively realistic idea with Yaphet Kotto playing one of the better villains with the right mix of charm and menace and with all the bad guys being black we get to hear lots of funky dialogue like " Yo , watch out bro you gotta honky on you're tail " . In these PC times you aren't allowed to write lines like that anymore which is a shame . Where the film falls down is Roger Moore as Bond . It's through no fault of his own but Sean Connery is an impossible act to follow , cinema goers must have been shocked in 1962 when they saw a violent anti hero killing bad guys in cold blood in DR NO . Here however there's no ruthlessness to Moore's Bond and therefore no real impact , but I suppose both the producers and Moore didn't want the part played as a Connery clone so this is forgivable and Moore is a lot better than Lazenby , and the series hadn't developed into farce as we'd see in later Moore Bonds like MOONRAKER and A VEIW TO A KILLSo an entertaining film to watch if you've got a couple of hours to spare . Probably Moore's second best film in the series after THE SPY WHO LOVED M
Highly Manipulative Despite The Very Strong Lead Performance	I can't say I've ever been a fan of Sean Penn an actor some critics have labeled " The greatest actor of his generation " . I've followed his career for twenty years ever since he married you know who . I found him okay in WE'RE NO ANGELS while his performance in CASUALTIES OF WAR was so OTT he was in danger of going into orbit . In other words he's rather hit and miss but I was totally taken aback with Penn's acting in I AM SAM . All too often an actor playing a mentally or physically handicapped character lays it on with a trowel but at no point in this film did I ever believe I was watching an actor ( Far less an actor called Sean Penn ) playing a character called Sam Dawson - I was watching Sam Dawson a man with the mental age of a seven year old , a man working in a coffee shop , a man trying to bring up a baby daughter a real life person . I've never seen MYSTIC RIVER but I can't wait to see Penn's Oscar winning role if this is the type of character acting that he's capable of It's a pity that the only that's successful thing about I AM SAM is Penn's dynamite performance . Ironic too because if Penn's nuances are subtle everything about the movie is hammered home far too obviously . Jessie Nelson has a background in television or more specifically in television movies , but even the most naive TVM producer would baulk at this heavy handed story . As soon as Sam's partner has given birth she runs off holding the baby - I mean that in a literal sense so Sam has to bring up a baby that turns in to a young sweet child called Lucy Diamond . She is so sweet I'm surprised that everyone around her hasn't died from diabetes and I'm sure a few people who have seen this movie have needed insulin injections such is its sugary sentimental storytelling . I certainly feel like I'm getting emotionally blackmailed by Nelson into feeling for the characters which eventually feels like manipulation . Certainly I would have respected the film a lot more if there'd been a lightness of touch , a lightness of touch which is totally absent here . As it stands it's still worth watching because Penn's amazing performance
Has A Lot In Common With A Later And Better Movie	After recently seen SPARTACUS I was reminded of THE VIKINGS a movie I re watched several weeks earlier and they're both movies that have a lot in common . In fact I saw them both for the first time on television within days of each other circa 1974 . There's other more obvious and impersonal connections like they both star Kirk Douglas and Tony Curtis where a sword fight takes place between their characters , everyone seems to speak in either British or American accents no matter where their character is supposed to be from and there's a fight between the good guys and bad guys at the end Having said all that SPARTACUS is by far the better movie because it's got a better story , production values and cast . Not only that but Kubrick's movie has better imagery . There's two scenes that stuck out from THE VIKINGS in my childhood , one of them featuring a hawk and someone's face and a pack of dogs and someone's live body but apart from that there's little I could recall . It should also be pointed out that the differing accents in SPARTACUS is hardly if at all noticeable whereas here it's somewhat intrusive . But to be fair THE VIKINGS does feature an impressive battle scene at the end where the Norsemen attack the English castle and perhaps if I hadn't seen SPARTACUS recently I would have enjoyed THE VIKINGS much more
A Dishonest Movie	! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! Much hyped as a true story on its release CATCH ME IF YOU CAN tells the tale of con artist extrodanaire Frank Abagnale Jr and FBI agent Carl Hanratty's attempt to catch him but the cold facts are this is not a true story - It's a Hollywood story inspired by real events and therefore the audience are required to do nothing more than pay their money at the box office , sit back and be entertained . Certainly they won't be expected to ask questions such as why is con man Abagnale being portrayed as some sort of misunderstood little boy lost Right from the outset we're shown Abagnale's ability to con people as being a force of good . Check out the scene in the school where he takes the class bully down a peg or two " Ah " thinks the audience " Frank's a good guy , he's a man of morality " but I'm afraid he's not because he's a con artist and the story telling technique doesn't allow much thinking to be done by the audience . What about the scenes where he passes himself off as an airline pilot . Can anyone explain to me how he did this for many months and was never ever suspected of being a fraud ? Didn't anyone ever ask him seriously technical questions about flying a jet that caused alarm bells to be rung ? These questions are never answered Abagnale also passed himself as a doctor where he falls in love with a young nurse lacking confidence called Brenda and this sub section of the story caused a few alarm bells to be rung in my head , so after I saw the movie I conducted some internet investigation only to find that while Abagnale was posing as a doctor a baby almost died under his care due to his own lack of medical knowledge . I ask you if the screenplay included this scene how would you feel about Abagnale then ? Exactly . All through the running time we're shown Frank Abagnale as some kind of cheeky chappie , a little bit naughty but hey he's a young good looking kid with no real harm in him . As John Ford said - " Always print the legend " I can certainly understand why people enjoyed CATCH ME IF YOU CAN and won't criticise them for it and I can also understand why Spielberg and company decided to make an entertaining movie that doesn't dare get involved in any type of morality . It is unfortunate however that the director and everyone else involved are involved in fundamental dishonesty themselves
Very 1980s	The thing to strike me about this remake of the 1942 movie CAT PEOPLE is how 1980s everything is . Everything is image and soundtrack . Unfortunately I mean that literally , there's little in the way of substance , there's little in the way of great acting , there's little in the way of inspired directing , everything is centered around a synth soundtrack and you won't be shocked to learn that the name Jerry Bruckheimer appears in the creditsI did enjoy Giorgio Moroder's electronic score for the movie but I should point I was 15 years old when CAT PEOPLE was released therefore I did apreciate synthesiser music in my youth . For those people born before or after the 1960s they will probably detest the artificial and intrusive soundtrack . I also agree with many of the comments here that the acting , directing and editing is all that good but it's not as bad as other Bruckheimer productions from the 80s and considering that there's a subtext of incest and beastiality the film does deserve some credit for never being as offensively explict as it could have been
Fair Enough Documentary	I saw this yesterday when UK Gold dedicated a whole weekend to the 40th anniversary of DOCTOR WHO . It's by no means the greatest documentary made for the show but it's by no means the worst either . My only real complaint is that the K-1 robot ( Which only appeared in one story and is completely forgotten ) has far too much time dedicated to it while more famous monsters like the Autons and Sea Devils appear briefly against a Wagner soundtrack
Disappontingly Silly	This got off to a fairly good start and was willing to overlook the silly plot device of having the heroine putting the passengers into suspended animation . The scenes as the survivors gradually thaw out and search through the devestated landscape of Britain are well done , but as the series progress we have bigger and bigger " How are our heroes going to get out of this " setpieces which come across as just plain sillyI was expecting this to be along the lines of John Christopher's THE DEATH OF GRASS or John Wyndham's DAY OF THE TRIFFIDS or Terry Nation's SURVIVORS . In many way's THE LAST TRAIN does mirror SURVIVORS but the whole series seems to be a tribute to Terry Nation , especially his setpiece work on DOCTOR WHO and BLAKES 7 which means that THE LAST TRAIN is certainly entertaining but extremely uneven . Still this show is superior to the BBC's sci-fi blockbuster INVASION EARTH which was broadcast round about the same time
Drags A Bit . . .	. . . Or perhaps I should say drags a big bit The problem I have with SCENT OF A WOMEN is that it resembles a few other feel good movies at the time . Following on from the success of DEAD POETS SOCIETY studio producers only seemed to be interested in making movies that were in danger of giving audiences diabetes , that's when they weren't making movies featuring a cop / a lodger / a babysitter / a flat mate / etc bringing murder and mayhem to an all American couple Despite Al Pacino featuring in every poster and trailer clip SCENT OF A WOMAN revolves around much of its ( Far too long ) running time on the character of Charlie Simms who keeps getting into trouble at his private school and I was so reminded of DEAD POETS SOCIETY that when Charlie takes on a job to look after a blind man I kept expecting Robin Williams to turn up . Fortunately the man who Charlie is to look after Colonel Frank Slade isn't played by Williams but by Al Pacino . When I say " fortunately " I'm not dissing Robin Williams in any way but we get the opportunity to see Pacino cast against type in a blackly comic role . Colonel Slade is something of a pathetic figure and as you expect Pacino plays him with typical intensity and makes the whole movie more enjoyable than it possibly deserves to be , but he only comes to the fore a lengthy way into the movie which as I've stated is too long to be truly successful . Would a Hollywood studio consider an unsolicted script 180 pages long ? Of course not Apart from the overblown running time the other flaw can be summed up by the score by Thomas Newman . As far as film scores go it's very good , but again it resembles work from other movies . The two note piano tune that features on the soundtrack is haunting but it's almost identical to the one that featured in THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION where Red leaves prison . But I've already mentioned that SCENT OF A WOMAN reminded me of other movies
Victim Culture ?	John Ritter plays a car salesman ! Don't know about the States but over here in the UK car salesmen are treated as a bit of a joke so a TVM starring a TV sitcom actor as a car salesman has got to be a comedy right ? No . UNFORGIVABLE is about a car salesman who likes to beat up womenTo be honest Ritter doesn't make a very good job of playing Paul Hegstrom but he's not helped by the way the character is written . In most of these types of domestic abuse stories the character should have a large amount of juxtaposition - cruel to his wife and family but charming to customers and work colleagues . But UNFORGIVABLE shows Hegstrom to be an abrasive bad tempered jerk to everyone and the viewer will be surprised as to why on earth anyone would want to go for an after work drink with him . But the main problem I have this TVM is that it comes close to painting Hegstrom as a victim too . As a child young Paul saw his father beat his mother and UNFORGIVABLE insinuates that this is the root core of his violence . Can anyone give me scientific proof that this is the case ? Likewise can anyone offer clear evidence that group therapy will break a cycle of violence ? It's a bit like saying the Middle East conflict can be solved by world leaders attending a meeting three times a week where they can all shout at each other
I Demand A Recount	TV Viewers in Britain were invited to phone the channel 4 studios and vote on what they thought was the worst moment in the history of television . The countdown was as much as you'd expect , former Northern Ireland minister Dr Mo Mowlam fettering about with a sex aid on SO GRAHAM NORTON , those pesky middle class kids from WHY DON'T YOU , those very badly dubbed shows that used to appear on Saturday morning BBC childrens television in the 1970s and of course the recasting of different actors on soap operas . But according to voters the worst moment in the history of television was Richard Madeley doing an impression of Ali G on THIS MORNING ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Aww come on guys I know you could fill this type of show with Richard Madeley clips - And he also came in fourth position with an interview with Shakin ' Stevens - but to say that this is the worst thing you've ever seen is going too farIt might seem ironic considering the subject matter but I was very irritated by the presence of Kate Thornton in many of the interviews . Ms Thornton couldn't have been much older than 25 when this show was broadcast and was perplexed about her opinions of 321 considering it was first broadcast in the mid 70s when Ms Thornton was born and finished about 10 years later when she wouldn't have even been a teenager
True ?	I was sitting in front of the TV flicking through the film channels trying to find a film I haven't seen before : " Seen that . Watched that , that's total crap " and grew more and more frustrated at trying to find a film I'd never seen before . The only reason I started watching BORSTAL BOY was it was the only movie on TV that night that I hadn't seen and wasn't too impressed when the TV guide described it as " An affecting coming of age drama about IRA saboteur Brendan Behan " so I was expecting another film about the peace loving pacifists of the IRA no doubt financed with money from the ailing British ( And spot the irony of that ) film industry , but I was pleasantly surprised by BORSTAL BOY . It's quite a charming little film , very well written and acted by a largely unknown castMy only real problems with the film is that it perhaps tries a little too hard to be likeable . With the exception of Del none of the young crims come across as being violent criminals . Also I'm just not sure how " true " this true story is because I had the instinctive feeling that a few of the facts had been changed in order to give BORSTAL BOY a more dramatic impact , some of the friendships seemed unlikely and being assigned to HMS Prince Of Wales ! How unlucky is that ? But if you take the facts with a pinch of salt you'll certainly like this film , especially if you found SCUM to be such a turn off due to its unrelenting violence . And keep an eye out for the names Lee Ingleby and Danny Dyer . You might be hearing a lot more of them in the future
Explains The Scottish Mentality Very Well	I was expecting to hate this movie with a vengeance . I saw Lynne Ramsey's later film MORVERN CALLAR and thought it was the biggest waste of celluloid it had been my displeasure to see so I wasn't expecting anything better with RATCATCHER However I was surprised by Ramsey's feature length debut . Let's be blunt this isn't a movie that will pack the local cineplex on a Friday night , it's very low concept and character driven with a naturalistic style as used by Mike Leigh and Ken Loach . But the beauty of this movie is that it shows the world what the Scots are like . People all over the world genuinely believe we wear kilts and play the bagpipes and worship the Loch Ness Monster . Not true . The Scots can be the friendliest people in the world , we can be the most selfish people in the world , and ( Whisper it ) we can be the most ignorant and drunken people in the world too This extends to the ( Scottish ) world that surrounds the tragic young James . His world is unbearable he looks for love and escape in an unloving miserable world . I guess that's a universal theme but you'd need to be from Scotland to understand this film better . certainly I could relate to it in some parts but like I said it's a million miles removed from a commercial mainstream feel good movie and the use of strong language ( The Scots are rather foul mouthed ) alone will turn off a potential audience . You won't confuse RATCATCHER with BRAVEHEART
You've Got To Admire The Cheek	A geek gets bitten by a modified spider and develops superhuman powers . Hey wasn't there a recent blockbuster based on the same premise ? Yes there was and you can't help thinking that the producers of EARTH VS THE SPIDER are going out of their way to deconstruct everything flawed about Peter Parker . " People like nice guys " says Stephanie the hot chick neighbour of anti - hero Quentin , no they don't Stephanie and being a nurse you should know this better than anyone . People - Especially hot chick nurses - like anti-heroes , they like people who clean up the streets of sex offenders and other slime , I mean crime is at an all time high and what's Peter Parker doing about it ? He's chasing after a man in a green costume ! He's far to concerned about his cholesterol levels and newspaper deadlines to care about Joe Public As you can guess EARTH VS THE SPIDER owes more to Stan Lee than it does to the B movie that shares its name . Of course it has none of the massive budget of the recent Sam Raimi blockbuster , in fact the production values of this film are rather weak with cobwebs that look like used chewing gum and mixed standards of make up , but for entertainment value I probably enjoyed this more than the not too dissimilar THE FLY I didn't like THE DAY THE WORLD ENDED , but I liked EARTH VS THE SPIDER and I loved SHE CREATURE and I hope someone makes a few more " Creature Features "
Familiar Story With Familiar Scenes	Sometimes when you're watching an obscure late night movie on cable that stars Treat Williams you may notice scenes from another much more famous film edited into the scenario . If I remember correctly CRITICAL MASS and a couple of other movies do this and I'd previously thought this was a recent concept . Apparently not since I remembered a couple of scenes from 633 SQUADRON which has been edited into this film . Not only that but there is at least one other scene that has been edited from OPERATION CROSSBOW . I guess I should be consistent here and say that if you can't make your own movie then don't bother Let's not get too self righteous because when MOSQUITO SQUADRON was produced they'd be double features in cinema chains and this is a B movie which was made to be shown before the main feature and contains a lot of aspects you'd expect from this type of production . There's a few familiar faces but no major stars while many of the production team have the majority of their resumes in television . The story itself is hardly groundbreaking with stiff upper lipped Brits and feisty freedom fighters from occupied territories doing their best to defeat those goose stepping Nazis who all speak English with a strange accent . If you like adventure stories or war films then you'll find this a nice enough time waster , though the dilemmas involving people carrying out a wartime mission is slightly under developed
Another British Horror Anthology	R Chetwynd Hayes is a good horror writer with a dark sense of humour . His stories are scary fun but don't translate to the screen very well , THE MONSTER CLUB was very patchy and this film suffers from the same problem SLIGHT SPOILERS Story one : This involves a serial killer . I know they do exist but has anyone been compelled to murder lots of people by a mirror ? And there's too much stuff unexplained . I don't suppose the scene with neighbour reading a cliched horror story about " The wind whistling through the trees , the door creaking open and a werewolf creeping out " can be described as post modernist either , can it ? Story Two : This is very good and is typical of Hayes protestant ethics and hen pecked husbands . It is slightly ridiculous in parts but obviously the cast had enjoyed making it and I enjoyed watching it . If this was written last week all the critics would claim R Chetwynd Hayes was a pen name for Chelsea Clinton Story Three : Oh dear , this also has Hayes signature on it , but just like some of his written tales - THE COST OF DYING for example - the characters are slightly OTT . This may work on the printed page but in a visual medium like cinema it doesn't . The story is also let down by some poor production values as you can quite clearly see strings holding up the leviating objects . Story Four : This is probably the weakest story since it revolves around a young couple so in love you can just tell nothing bad is going to befall them If you're aware of the anthology format and not expecting too much you'll probably be entertained . But if you're a fan of R Chetwynd Hayes you'll probably be disappointed . I also find it slightly surprising that no one has decided to adapt his story MANDERVILLE which in these days of shock twist endings like THE SIXTH SENSE and THE GIFT could very well be a big hit with cinema goers
Watchable Enough Though It's Easy To See That Caine Dislikes It	ASHANTI is a somewhat typical movie from the late 70s / early 80s starring Michael Caine . It's certainly watchable in an undemanding way but no more than that but neither is it bad enough to be virtually disowned by its star . The story itself is intriguing an Afro-American doctor working for the UN is kidnapped by slave traders and it's up to her English born husband to track down the kidnapped woman . I guess the movie could have concerned itself more as to dispelling or building myths about the present day slave trade but it's not that type of movie and rightly concentrates on action and adventure One can't help thinking that maybe Caine's dislike of the movie is down to the fact that he's playing a hero and as everyone knows heroes are by their very nature boring . Undoubtedly Malik played by Indian actor Kabir Bedi is the most interesting character while Peter Ustinov as Sulimen gets by far the best lines and scenes like " A father , a father , a father " . Very frequently Caine gives the impression that as soon as the movie is finished and the cheque is in the bank he'll be firing his agent ASHANTI is a movie that demands very little from and offers little to its audience except to sit back and be enthralled . Film buffs might complain that this is a poor movie considering it was directed by the legendary Richard Fleischer , well maybe but I think the only thing the director can be criticised for is casting an obviously unwell William Holden in a needless cameo
Worth Watching But Only Because Of The Fine Cast	Jack Higgins ? Surely one the most clichéd commercial writers there has ever been . Maybe he's not the worst writer to make millionaire status since there's a lot of competition for that tag like Harold Robbins , Jackie Collins or even that dreadful hack called Rowling who has conned a lot of children out of their pocket money by publishing the same mediocre book year after year , but certainly as a writer Higgins is rather poor and it's no surprise that for many years film producers are totally disinterested in buying the movie rights to his stories THE EAGLE HAS LANDED is a typical Higgins story - Clichéd and with a ludicrous plot . What's it about ? A bunch of German paratroopers disguised as Poles drop into Norfolk in 1943 on a mission to kidnap Winston Churchill thereby bring about a negotiated settlement with the Western allies ? Can anyone see a flaw with this plot ? If you wonder what I'm talking about please read a history book on the second world war . Found it yet ? You might notice that Churchill was never kidnapped by German paratroopers which leads even the most ignorant audience member to have a rough idea of how the movie will end . On top of all that you find yourself comparing the movie to the far more superior Graham Greene adaptation of WENT THE DAY WELL which features a very similar plot But it's the clichés that really get me with this movie . I don't doubt that from 1939-45 many Germans disliked Nazism and were disgusted by the genocidal policies of the party , but watching this movie you'd think EVERYONE was physically opposed to Nazism . Kurt Stiener ( A banal German name but better that Schmidt I guess ) assaults a totenkopf officer and vainly tries to save a Jewish woman from a death squad in Poland . Yup happened all the time I imagine , while Liam Devlin is mistaken as a gestapo member in a bar , has whisky poured over him and thrown through a window . Yes I'm sure if someone has the power of life and death over you and your family and you slightly disagreed with their racial politics you too would want to give them a piece of your mind . Oh I've just looked up a history book called History Of The Second World War And Why Germany Lost by Jack Higgins that fails to mention the lack of resources Germany had , or the slow degradation of its industrial power by allied bombing or massive loss of manpower suffered on the Eastern front , instead he states Germany lost the war because the average German hated the Nazis more than they hated the countries they were at war with ! If the clichés aren't bad enough we also have to endure some ridiculous plot devices . IRA man Liam Devlin ( Who wants to overthrow the British empire without blowing up innocent passers by - Yawn ) embarks on a relationship with a local girl within five minutes of landing in Norfolk . I guess this is to lull a potential female audience into the story , but would any woman be interested in a Jack Higgins story ? Would anyone with any common sense be interested in a Higgins story ! Oh and not wanting to be shot as spies the German wear their Luftwaffe uniforms under their Polish uniforms . Let me see now , they don't want to be shot as spies so if they wear their own uniforms under their disguise this will protect them under the terms laid out by the Geneva convention ! Actually it won't because they're spies / assassins . Of course this is another plot device , another daft plot device This is a really stupid movie but I have no hesitation in awarding it simply because the cast go out of their way to rise above the material . Michael Caine was infamous in the mid to late 1970s to taking on roles that were obviously just to pay the rent but he manages to make Kurt Stiener as well rounded and as affable as a thinly written cypher can be . Donald Sutherland steals every scene he's in but it's Robert Duvall who gives the stand out performance as a German Oberst . It's a very subtle performance in which his body language says far more about his character than the written dialogue . Uanfortunately Larry Hagman gives a terrible performance as an American officer . Remember the sheriff in THE DUKES OF HAZZARD ? I'm sure that was inspired by Hagman's performance here
I Guess It Must Have Stuck To The Book	I confess to having never read Edgar Rice Burroughs novel that GREYSTOKE : THE LEGEND OF TARZAN LORD OF THE APES is based upon but I got the impression it stuck to the original very closely . Too closely perhaps since much of the first half of the film is taken up with Lord Jack Clayton relating events in a diary and then there's no dialogue except for the grunts of apes for a while . In other words much of what worked in a literary novel is obviously unfilmable and has been translated poorly to screen . But stay with GREYSTOKE because it really does pick up with the arrival of a British zoological party and the film turns into an innocent abroad type film as John Clayton ( Tarzan ) arrives back at his ancestral home . There's a lot to recommend about this movie . It makes some very stinging criticisms on the British class systems and mans contempt of nature , and is very well acted by all the cast especially Ralph Richardson in his last screen appearance and Christopher Lambert who unfortunately only seems to appear in straight to video films nowadays . It's also worth watching for the final scene of a landscape with a volcano in the distance which reminded me of a recent film featuring Ian Holm which ended on an indentical scene . Can you guess what film I mean ?
Interesting Chick Flick But Suffers From A Weak Ending	Anyone remember Julia Ormond ? She was a British actress touted as the next big thing in Hollywood and starred in the female friendly movies LEGENDS OF THE FALL and SABRINA . CAPTIVES is another chick flick movie starring Ormond and to be honest I think it's her best starring roleOrmond plays Rachel Clifford a newly qualified dentist who sometimes works in a prison . After finishing work she does her shopping at a supermarket and bumps into one of the inmates called Philip Chaney who is nearing his release date . After striking up a connection . . . Ah but that would be telling I found CAPTIVES a thoroughly engrossing drama for the most part . Yeah anything involving a romance between two mismatched people isn't usually my kind of movie and I doubt if it was produced for a target audience of 30 something blokes , but that's not to criticise it in anyway . The central plot of two people coming closer and closer together as seen here is convincing and the characters are well defined helped no doubt by the understated performances of Ormond and Roth . Alas it's not flawless The problem is about two thirds of the way through there's a plot twist as if the producers said to themselves " Hold on let's try and liven things up a bit so it'll appeal to streetwise wannabe gangsta boys " . The screenplay did not need livening up since everything was going so well . Yeah as the demographic breakdown on this site shows far more females enjoyed this than males but there's no way CAPTIVES can be described as soppy , it's set in a prison for goodness sake and the shock ending should have been the revelation of what Chaney was in jail for and how this affected the new relationship . Like the famous cult film SCUM this is another movie featuring the British penal system whose natural ending takes place two thirds of the way in and has a rather illogical final third tacked on in the hope of shocking the audience So that's the major problem with CAPTIVES and why it loses it's potential when it had fulfilled much of it earlier on . It was also produced by the BBC and unsurprisingly it has this made for TV feel instead of a cinematic sensation which may disappoint some people . I did enjoy watching it at the time but when I came to type this review I'd almost forgotten why mainly due to the ending , same as it appears everyone seems to have forgotten Julia Ormond
Somewhat Dated But Still Amusing	I had given up on ever seeing an episode of THE GOODIES ever being broadcast on British network TV . Apparently much of their humour would today be classed " racist " and I have seen clips where the cast use variations of the N word which would no longer be allowed on British television nowadays so it was something of a shock to see Channel 5 broadcast THE GOODIES AND THE BEANSTALK at Christmas I was looking forward to watching this again and could recall seeing it as a child . To be honest though much of the humour has somewhat dated with a fairly long early sequence similar to THE BENNY HILL SHOW where there's no dialogue , only a muzak soundtrack as the eponymous goodies try and make some money after falling on hard times . As with all the goodies sketches there's a policeman involved and a scene that will have the PC brigade falling out of their chairs since it might be classed as " homophobic " . There's a sequence later featuring a competition involving puppies " And remember if no one wins the puppies they'll be sold to Indian restaurants " and a sequence featuring a savage done up as Man Friday , but nothing that will cause great offence to someonewith a sense of humour . The only criticism I have about the humour of THE GOODIES AND THE BEANSTALK is that it's maybe a little too cartoonish and surreal for a modern day audience who think THE OFFICE and FRIENDS is the be all and end all of comedy . The goodies might have have been unsophisticated but they still remain amusingThere is one other thing I noticed while watching this that might be classed as criticism and that's the laughter track - It's too intrusive . People complain about the canned laughter in things like I'M ALAN PARTRIDGE , LITTLE Britain but it's just as bad here which goes to show it's not a modern phenomena
Perhaps Too Character Driven For Its Own Good	This is an independent drama featuring two sisters : Georgia a successful C & W singer and her younger sister Sadie who is a grunge rock chick and that's the story . When I say " story " I don't mean " plot " because unfortunately GEORGIA doesn't have a plot which is a shame since this movie falls short because of its low concept story . It's very well acted by all the cast and Marie Winningham was Oscar nominated as the title character while Jennifer Jason Leigh ( One of America's most underrated actresses of the last two decades ) is superb . Yeah you want to grab hold of Sadie and strangle some sense into her but having an abundance of reckless stupidity is how the character is written and Leigh plays her to perfection . it's just a shame that the film suffers from a lack of incidents in a tale featuring sibling rivalry with the most nail biting moment being when Sadie being refused on a plane because she has no shoes ! Will she get some footwear before the plane leaves ? That's the nearest we get to excitement
The Other Fellow Should Have Been Cast	Some people consider OHMSS to be the worst Bond movie made . It's not ( That's either MOONRAKER or A VIEW TO A KILL ) but it's not the best either though it had all the potential to be the best Bond movie ever made . It's totally serious apart from the post modernist opening , it contains some very good lines like " Gatecrasher , I'll leave you to tidy up " and the classic " He had lots of guts " and this is the movie where Bond's heart is melted and he gets married so we've got a mile stone incident in the franchise . The problem - And it's a fatal one - is that George Lazenby is painfully wooden as James Bond . Okay the legendary British agent is not an Oscar winning role but Lazenby delivers his lines with the conviction of a speak your weight machine and is totally ill at ease on screen and you do find yourself wishing that Sean Connery had stayed in the role for this movie . This is compounded even worse by the production team drawing the audience's attention to the fact that Connery is gone by having a title sequence composed of a montage of clips from the previous movies and there's a scene where Bond empties his desk and we're treated to strains of themes from the Connery Bond movies . yeah Lazenby is poor but you do get the impression his very lukewarm reception in the role was also partly to the production team also wishing that Sean Connery was also playing BondNowhere as good as DR NO and GOLDFINGER , OHMSS is still better than MOONRAKER , VIEW TO A KILL and a couple of the other lesser Bond movies
Overrated	Nice to see that a few all too rare reviewers agree that Ridley Scott's ALIEN is a rather overrated film , yes I agree with everyone that the set design is fantastic but the film suffers from 2001 : A SPACE ODYSSEY syndrome in that it has a very slow sterile atmosphere which makes it difficult to connect with the characters . The only character I felt any sympathy with was Kane and that's only because he was played by the excellent John Hurt . As for the rest of the crew I couldn't care less if they got eaten or not . To all intents ALIEN is a corny B movie script ( I think we can ignore all the pseudo-intellectual claptrap involving subtext - it's a B movie script ) produced by A list technicians Trivia point : Ridley Scott was working as a BBC designer in 1963 and legend has it that he was due to work on a fledgling sci-fi series but became unavailable at the last moment which meant Raymond Cusack worked on this new show called DOCTOR WHO and it was he who designed the Daleks undoubtedly the most visually interesting creations in the history of television . Talking of DOCTOR Who check out the 1975 story ' The Ark In Space ' which has a very similar premise to ALIEN but is far more enjoyable
Perhaps Too Grim To Be A Total Success	I really enjoyed Neil Marshall's DOG SOLDIERS and knew right away that here was a genre director to keep an eye on . For some strange reason it wasn't until tonight that I got round to seeing THE DESCENT and felt disappointed with it . If you're after a film that delivers buckets of gore and has you jumping out of your seat then you will not be disappointed . If however you're after a film that has the same sort of charm as DOG SOLDIERS then you'll be as disappointed as I was That's the problem with THE DESCENT because it lacks any sort of charm , humour or warmth and unfortunately if you liked one of Neil's films you'll probably dislike the other . The one problem I had with DOG SOLDIERS is that it took a long time to get into its stride and it's possibly the only thing it shares with this film , though to be honest it's worse in that respect because we have to wait almost a whole hour before the monsters turn up and until then we have to endure a girls get together in the remote American wilderness . Compare this narrative structure to something like 28 DAYS LATER which instantly draws the audience into the story , or even better 28 WEEKS LATER which has an absolutely awesome opening ten minutes Right away you can see the difference between the two movies . In one we have good natured British squaddies complete with a blokey attitude while in the other we have a cosmopolitan bunch of unsympathetic women who I found very annoying , so much so that I found myself cheering for the monsters . Not a very charitable attitude I know but compare this with the characterization of Sgt Wells , Coop and Spoon from the earlier movie where you couldn't not like the characters . Likewise throughout THE DESCENT there's a totally grim , bleak and nihilistic atmosph ere that is reflected in thestoryline and you won't feel like smiling after watching this . You can make the argument that Neil Marshall has made two horror films that are poles apart and you'd be right , but shouldn't a horror film be fun ? Isn't this the reason why DOG SOLDIERS was so enjoyable ? Despite my criticism THE DESCENT was met with critical and commercial success and put Neil Marshall on the map in America . Seeing as we have a horror director who can make very different genre films I can't help thinking that if the rumoured 28 MONTHS LATER makes it into production then Neil Marshall would be a strong contender for director . One common criticism of the first two films in the franchise is that the second halves have a problem sustaining the momentum which is not a problem I've seen with this director's previous work and a grim , downbeat ending would be more in keeping with the 28 franchise than with this type of horror movie
Difficult To Understand The High Rating	Robert Bresson's PICKPOCKET has an average rating higher than some of the movies in the top 250 movies on this site but I'm somewhat dismayed as to why it's so highly regarded . I suppose if you're a fan of Bresson and you want to see him do a movie in the new wave sense then you'll probably enjoy it but if you're unaware of new wave cinema and have people heaping superlatives upon it you'll probably be as disappointed as me The story itself is relatively threadbare , there's little plot and is mainly character driven . The story centres around Michel a recently released thief who returns to his old ways as a pickpocket . He meets up with a couple of other fingersmiths and there's a bit of romance involved and that's basically it plot wise . I wasn't convinced by the pickpocket choreography either , especially in one scene where Michel robs a bloke on a bus . I doubt if anyone could have failed to notice the way Michel acts so suspiciously . Honestly if this guy came to stand beside you on a crowded bus you'd instantly be worried about becoming a victim of an indecent assault ! I do realise that French new wave cinema has a massive amount of fans and its legacy leaked into the new Hollywood of the 1970s . You can tell Paul Schrader was heavily influenced by PICKPOCKET and one of his own screenplay's mirrors the ending here . Apart from that however you're probably better waiting for it to turn up on television than spending six quid to watch it in the cinema
It's Not BATMAN 3 That's For Sure	The info button described MISTRESS as thus " An earnest screenwriter sees his dream mangled in the Hollywood movie machine . Robert DeNiro is a crass moneyman demanding a role for his talentless mistress " Great I thought , this is going to be like THE KING OF COMEDY except it's set in Hollyloot . Twenty minutes later DeNiro's still not appeared and I'm aware of one thing - info buttons are never right The info button wasn't so much wrong but it was rather misleading . DeNiro does indeed play a crass moneyman who is after a role for his mistress but she's not exactly talentless . The plot mainly revolves around a failed director / screenwriter called Marvin who finds himself having to severly alter his script if he wants it produced , it's a sort of satire / black comedy on the Hollyloot system of film making and once you get over the initial disappointment of it not being a Scorsese / DeNiro masterpiece it's an enjoyable film , and one with a lot of scathing truth like a pitch is all down to presentation , casting is down to who the actress is sleeping with and a producer's vulgarity is only matched by his ignorance . Also watch out for the line " This isn't BATMAN 3 " which at that time hadn't been produced yet . I guess someone made BATMAN 3 as a homage to MISTRESS ?
Not Bad	A lot of people really hated ROBOCOP 2 when it was released in the Summer of 1990 : " Oh it's not as good as the first one , oh it's too violent , etc , etc " If they thought the sequel was violent did they actually sit down to see the original ? One can't help thinking the critics of this had only seen the TV version of 1987's ROBOCOP , you know the one that had every scene of violence censored along with classic dubbed lines like " You gonna be a bad mothercrusher " DirectorIrvin Kershner deserves little if any criticism so I'll point out that what's wrong with ROBOCOP 2 is Frank Miller and Walon Green's script , it's by no means terrible it's just that the central plot of a corrupt corporate member putting a criminals brain into a new robocop model is rather simplistic therefore the running time is taken up with the bad guy dismembering Murphy and later Murphy becoming a changed robot By no means an awful movie and one that's far better than ROBOCOP 3 and the following PG rated television series
Entertaining Enough	The problem with a film featuring an invisible man is that once you've seen one scenario you've seen them all , but MEMOIRS OF AN INVISIBLE MAN is better than most . It is somewhat flawed in having David Jenkins motives for catching Nick Halloway rather vague and I'm having trouble trying to remember what Jenkins is going to do with Nick once he's captured him , but John Carpenter has made a fairly entertaining film ( Probably the last entertaining film he's likely to make ) mixing the genres of romance , comedy and thriller . Don't worry if this reminds you of THE MARATHON MAN at some points because one of the screenwriters is none other William Goldman who also wrote the aforementioned story
Despite Its Strengths And Awards And Critical Praise This Is An Often Mediocre Movie	I was really looking forward to this movie . I do like British dystopian / apocalyptic movies which have been in vogue for the last few years , think 28 DAYS / WEEKS LATER , V FOR VENDETTA etc and CHILDREN OF MEN was very well regarded by the critics even picking up a couple of Bafta awards and three Oscar nominations . Three Oscar nominations for a dystopian apocalyptic movie ! This means it's gotta be a great movie right ? Unfortunately it's not It did have the potential to be a great movie but what ruins it is the lack of any type of internal or external logic . The human race has been sterile for 20 years so humanity will become extinct . Don't you think the sharpest minds in the world will go out of their way to find a cure for sterility ? They've even found a cure for this in real life and have done so for many years , it's called IVF treatment , something that is conveniently forgotten in this vision of the future Even worse is the confusing idea that because we're dying out the British government has become fascist and they're stamping down on illegal immigrants . I'm sorry but if Britain is an island why don't the government just block the channel tunnel and search every boat docking in the country ? Surely that's a much better sensible idea than allowing the scenario seen here ? Not allowing illegal immigrants on to an island ( Whilst allowing immigrants with much needed skils to stay ) merely takes some political will combined with some common sense and would be a vote winner with the indigenous electorate regardless of voters ethnicity so why the need of fascism when you can have populist democratic government ? There's also something else wrong with this premise - why does the slow extinction of mankind lead to so much nihilism ? Put it like this : you've been diagnosed with a terminal illness meaning you have a few years to live so how would you live out your time ? Would you face the future with dignity and calm going about your life as you always have or would you become entirely apathetic about life or would you use the time you have embarking on hedonism ? I think most people would choose one of these options but very few people would genuinely become violent apocalyptic nihilists as seen here It's been said that Alfonso Cuaron doesn't like to explain narrative turns similar to Michelangelo Antonio and it shows . The characters are often underdeveloped and their motives are often unclear . Like the government we never find out what motivates the terrorists and apart from casting Julianne Moore and Michael Caine in a rather cynical attempt to bump up the box office is their any reason for their characters to exist in the screenplay ? Neither Julian or Jasper contribute anything to the confused plot Having said all this Cuaron excels in the visuals . The grimy London of the future is certainly memorable while the battle scene towards the end is right there with SAVING PRIVATE RYAN and BLACK HAWK DOWN . Also well done is the ambush in the countryside with the burning car and it's those scenes that will linger long in the memory long after you've forgotten the often risible screenplay All in all CHILDREN OF MEN is a very frustrating , flawed film . It's by no means the masterpiece many claim it is . It's interesting how many American critics enjoyed it . Could it be that America is more religious in its outlook and recognised an ecclesiastical subtext to the story such as having the protagonist called Theodore who sacrifices his life for the future of mankind ? Perhaps , but this screenplay won an Oscar nomination and if anyone thinks is a great screenplay then gawd help us all
I Used To Like This Movie	I first saw THIS ISLAND EARTH in the mid 1970s when I was about 10 years old and could remember liking it very much much as a colourful epic adventure complete with mutant monsters but after seeing it again tonight I was severly disappointed SPOILERS The problem mainly lies with a totally illogical plot . Scientists ( Including a woman - What female scientists existed in the 1950s ? ) from all over the world are given a test by aliens from another planet who then gather the scientists at a hidden retreat ( Don't ask why a superior race would need the help from humans ) , later the aliens wipe out most of these humans except for the hero and heroine who they take to their planet in a flying saucer ( I did say the plot was illogical ) where it's revealed the aliens need urainuim for their defensive shield ( You do think the aliens might have considered opening an urainium mine on Earth instead of kidnapping scientists but this is a totally illogical plot ) , the good alien helps the hero and heroine back to Earth killing a couple of mutants ( Pronounced " Mu - TANTS ) along the way . The hero and heroine escape the saucer which becomes a blazing tomb for the good alien and that's the plot of the movie , a totally illogical one There are some good points . The special effects like the saucer flying through the galaxy and the firestorm on Meta-Luna are adequate though in some places the lightning bolts striking the fleeing car are poor , and the mutants ( Though there's supposed to be several it's obvious only one costume was built ) are fun despite their short screen time , and I guess if you're a sucker for this type of pulp B movie you'll still enjoy it . I know I did but not as much as I did first time I saw it
Has Its Moments	I remember seeing this one Friday night round about 1978-79 when I was twelve years old . In those days we only had three TV channels in Britain and ITV used to show horror films frequently on Friday nights and you could judge how good they were by the way they cropped up in conversation amongst my classmates on the Monday morning . Using this criteria THE HOUSE THAT DRIPPED BLOOD made quite an impact since I can clearly remember someone quoting the line " My name is Dominick " and the story featuring Jon Pertwee cropped up . Of course as an adult the Amicus anthology films don't have much of an impact but they were good at the time and I guess this is one of the better efforts Story 1 ) Rather corny but it is somewhat amusing watching Tom Adams camp it up and it does contain the classic quote " My name is Dominick " Story 2 ) Despite the presence of Peter Cushing and Joss Ackland the actors do little with their roles because their characters are so sketchilly written . Character development is always a problem in these type of movies but it does contain a twist at the end Story 3 ) Christopher Lee was superb in LORD OF THE RINGS but he's been far from superb in most movies he's appeared in . I guess he deserves some credit for screaming in pain in a fairly convincing manner . The girl playing his daughter is an awful actress however Story 4 ) DOCTOR WHO fans will love this story as we see Jon Pertwee playing an arrogant horror film star . It's also interesting to note his mannerism and costume is the exact same as when he played the Doctor . Trivia fans will no doubt note that he played opposite Ingrid Pitt in the 1972 story The Time Monster , John Bennet in the 1974 story Invasion Of The Dinosaurs and of course starred in WORZEL GUMMIDGE alongside Geoffrey Bayldon who played the crowman An inoffensive and sometimes camp collection of tales but also fairly entertaining even if it's not as good as you remember it from childhood
Too Complicated And Contains A Very Distressing Scene	I can remember CHILDREN OF THE NORTH from its one and only transmission on BBC 2 in 1991 and being totally frustrated by the plot . The first episode revolves around an attempted assassination of MI5 agent Colonel Mailer in which his chauffuer is killed by the provisional IRA but then the story slips and slides into umpteen different subplots as more characters are introduced and the plot loses all focus . One subplot features an undercover army officer trying to infiltrate an IRA cell while posing as a double agent and another subplot features a split in the IRA which leads to the provisionals liquidating the dissidents before it leads to a destructive feud in the republican movement and by the time these plot strands reach fruition I'd lost track what any of this had to do with the opening episode . I guess that the scriptwriter John Hale could claim he's mirroring the deeply complex politics of Northern Ireland by writing such a hard to follow story but I've a feeling the problem is more likely flawed plotting . It should be pointed out that most of Mr Hale's previous work is historical drama and he's had little experience of political thrillers which is an entirely different genre There's also a large amount of callousness in the characterisation . Colonel Mailer sees his chauffeur killed by a terrorist sniper and in his next scene he nonchalantly discusses it like his driver has just retired , Mailer doesn't come across as a sympathetic character therefore he's difficult to empathise with . But there is a deeply disturbing scene where the undercover army officer has to prove to the IRA splinter group that he's on their side by carrying out a test of faith . He's taken to a deserted garage and told to shoot someone the terrorist group has captured - One of his own men who is seen begging for his life . Normally in this type of scene ( Several movies feature something similar where an under cover cop faces the same dilemma ) the audience are on the edge of their seats and they breath a sigh of relief when it turns out that the gun isn't loaded . The audience will let out a gasp watching this but it'll be a gasp of shock
Better Than The Second But Very Uneven	Believe me RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART 2 took some swallowing but the opening ten minutes of RAMBO 3 caused me to fall out of my chair in shock . John Rambo does prize fighting to earn his keep in a Buddhist commune ! I mean that's a bit like having a film where the hero's an environmentalist who goes around blowing oil rigs to save the Alaskan wilderness . Oh wait a minute didn't Steven Seagal . . . . Despite this incredible and vain attempt at character development there follows much dialogue that accurately reflects what is going on in Afghanistan in the mid 1980s . The Soviet - Afghan war actually intensified when Mikhail Gorbachev came to power and by that time over one million Afghans had died in the conflict while as many as five million had been forced over the border into Iran and Pakistan as what analysts at the time called " Migratory genocide " , a euphemism that people nowadays would describe as " Ethnic cleansing " . There's other parts of the film that points out that screenwriter Sheldon Lettich has done his homework on the conflict with factual things like Soviet conscripts defecting to the Mujahedeen , of the red army planting mines and booby traps disguised as toys to blow off the limbs of children and of the Soviets use of chemical weapons which almost certainly proves that the sloppy script of FIRST BLOOD PART 2 was mainly down to James Cameron than Stallone , but as you'd expect in this type of action adventure movie the script rapidly degenerates into a series of set pieces of an all American superman blowing up a bunch of nasty commies who can't shoot straight . Ah well at least the main commie isn't played by a British actor unlike in the last film . Oh and congratulations to Peter McDonald for at least trying to make a Puma helicopter look like a Soviet helicopter gunship . The previous director was under the impression that the Soviets and Viet Cong use American Hueys Setting the record straight : A lot of people prove how ignorant they are of the Soviet - Afghan war by confusing the Mujahedeen with the Taliban . The Mujahedeen ( Translated " The soldiers of God " ) and the Taliban ( Translated " The students of God " ) are entirely seperate things . The Taliban were created in Pakistan in the early 1990s , took over Afghanistan in 1995 and were led by Mullah Omar . The Mujahedeen were split into several different groups and were led by different leaders ( None of them called Bin Laden ) most of them forming a coalition against the Taliban called the Northern Alliance in . Their overall leader was the legendary guerilla leader Ahmad Shah Massoud who was murdered in a suicide bombing by Al Qai'da terrorists in September 2001 . It was the Northern Alliance who fought side by side with the Western coalition during their campaign to overthrow the Taliban government in 2001 to the present day
Better Than I Was Expecting	As soon as the opening credits started I started to have serious reservations about SYLVIA . The company credits read that this was a BBC film funded by the arts council which could only mean one thing - It's of little interest to anyone who didn't work on the movie , but to be fair I was pleasantly surprised as to how the story drew me in This is a bio-pic on Sylvia Plath the wife of famous poet Laurette Ted Hughes . I hate poetry and fail to see the merits of it and find poets to be the most self centered , esoteric and pretentious of writers and this is what I liked about SYLVIA - If you hate poetry you can still appreciate this movie which is an intense melodrama featuring neurosis , paranoia and sexual betrayal . Some people have criticised the movie for being too much of a " kitchen sink melodrama " but I fail to see how this can be a criticism and much preferred seeing a bleak and depressing film than one which concerned itself with poetry
Good For What It Is	RED HEAT is yet another of those buddy movies from the 1980s . Cops set up a sting , the bad guy kills a cop during an escape , turns out that the dead cop is the hero's best buddy and he's going to stop at nothing to get the bad guy with all this happening in the first 15 minutes of the movie . If all this sounds similar to 48 HOURS that's possibly because it was directed and co written by Walter Hill who also directed and co wrote the aforementioned movie . It might not be original in structure but it's certainly entertaining due in no small part of the two protagonists - Serious communist cop from the Ukraine , wise cracking Chicago cop - playing off each other in a story that could have so often become predictable and boring due to its familiar plot . It's hardly groundbreaking in concept but when a film made in 1988 starts hinting that gangsters from the Soviet Union will be taking charge of much of the black market in drugs , this alone gives it an edge missing in so many of its contemporaries
Has Its Moments	In my review of the television series I mentioned that THE SWEENEY has its episodes split between " comedy " episodes and " violent " episodes and after seeing the two film versions of the show this theory certainly holds up . The first SWEENEY film was a gritty political thriller with a high body count while the second film features a lot of humerous moments like the big John appeal box , " Remember - rubber is recyclable " , " When I said you couldn't organise a pss up at a brewary George I was wrong " and there's a running gag involving driver Robert Soames . That's not to say that this film should be classed as a black comedy , just that it contains darkly comic moments like the original series did . As has been noted the plot which involves a quasi fascist bunch of bank robbers could have easily have been made as a one hour episode ( And the film seems to have the budget of a one hour television episode ) but at least - Unlike the film versions of LOST IN SPACE and MISSION IMPOSSIBLE - this film resembles the television show it's based upon
Well Made But Lacks Integrity	! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! ! Ron Howard's A BEAUTIFUL MIND shares something in common with SLEEPERS , PAPILLION and THE EXCORCISM OF EMILY ROSE in that it claims to be a true story but when you stop to examine the truth you realise that it's not really a true story at all . Perhaps I'm being unfair in comparing it to the aforementioned because in reality the story is similar to Oliver Stone's adaptation of MIDNIGHT EXPRESS in that the source material is based upon a real character but the film invents it's own version of reality Professor John Nash was a mathematical genius but he was also a bi-sexual and a rabid anti - Semite , you wouldn't know this from seeing Akiva Goldsman screenplay where he's deeply in love with Alicia . I guess centering a story around a romantic subplot adds to the film's commercial appeal , never let truth get in the way of good box office . Unfortunately the producers decide to introduce an espionage subplot where it's revealed later on is part of a schizophrenic delusion suffered by Nash . This subplot is very insulting to anyone with any knowledge or experience of schizophrenia because the victim wouldn't suffer the type of delusions seen here . He would suffer from things like abstract signals where the television would try to contact him etc , a schizophrenic wouldn't find himself meeting mysterious men in black or finding himself with a room mate who is part of his imagination etc There are somethings that make Howard's film worth seeing , things like Crowe's performance which might have won him an Oscar if it wasn't down to Academy politics . Connelly's award for best supporting actress was well deserved as was James Horner's nomination for score though perhaps Ed Harris might be upset about not being nominated for best supporting actor . I have to be honest and say that despite director Ron Howard and writer Akiva Goldsman making an interesting movie about mathematics neither of them deserved the Oscar that year . Best director and best adapted screenplay should have gone to FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING along with the Oscar for best picture And remember if you want to know about the real John Nash please read Sylvia Nasar's biography and ignore this Hollywood version
Good Directing . Bad Screenplay	Anyone remember William Boyd's movie THE TRENCH ? It was made in 1999 and was set on the eve of the battle of the Somme , a battle that saw the British army lose 20 , 000 soldiers on the first day of battle . It was fairly unconvincing not helped by the fact that the eponymous trench looked like a film set . Not so with Michael J Basset's DEATHWATCH which has a realistic miss-en-scene , so realistic in fact you can taste the mud in your mouth , the rain on your skin and smell the stench of decomposing flesh inside your nose . Anyone think war's a game ? I suggest you watch this movie because it might just change your mind . Just a pity that Basset decided to make a horror movie involving the supernatural because who needs monsters when you see what the human race is capable of The characters are rather clichéd but no more so than those seen in THE TRENCH or THE SOMME ( 2005 ) and the cast do their best especially Andy Serkis who plays a violent maniac . 10 million people died in the first world war so it's refreshing to see a soldier from that period actually enjoying killing the enemy so much simply down to blind hatred . You think the Jerries and Tommies played football together and drank schnapps every Christmas ? Think again . What really ruins the film is the main story of a supernatural force in the trench alongside the soldiers . It's very confusing and underdeveloped and in places just downright silly , especially that ending In short this is a film that could have been a modern anti-war classic . Basset has made a highly atmospheric film with some very disturbing imagery . It's interesting to note that the scene everyone remembers is the one where the blankets are pulled back , a scene that you feel uncomfortable watching because you just know something like that has happened in real conflicts in the past and will happen in future conflicts . Did we need supernatural damnation when all you have to do is switch on the TV every day to see the human race damned by it's own hand ?
Sutherland Is The Saving Grace	Watching KELLY'S HEROES is a deeply irritating experience if you go in with the mindset that it's a war movie . Look at the cast for example where we see forty something actors playing front line combat troops , it's almost as bad as the John Wayne laugh fest THE GREEN BERETS and despite the screenplay being written by Briton Troy Kennedy Martin we have to endure these ridiculous scenes where a handful of American soldiers wipe out wave upon wave of German troops . Am I allowed to mention that in France during WW2 for every German soldier killed by a GI in combat the Germans killed two Americans ? You should of course view KELLY'S HEROES as a cross genre movie , a heist movie set against the backdrop of the second world war that doesn't take itself too seriously . Even so it would have been a fairly unmemorable movie experience if it didn't feature Donald Sutherland in the role of Sgt Oddball . The character is totally anachronistic , he's some type of hippy whose hair and beard goes against US Army regulations and speaks about strange concepts that no one would have any inkling of in 1944 but that's the whole point of his character and he's played superbly by Sutherland in one of his best roles and who steals absolutely steals every single scene he appears in . Without risking any type of litigation the trivia section of this page mentions that Mr Sutherland was " seriously ill " while making this . I wonder if he was taking any herbal medicine at the time ! This is a movie that is saved by one single performance , that of Sutherland's I doubt if it's supposed to be an allegory on Vietnam despite the hippy subtext and the friendly fire incidents unlike say ULZANA'S RAID , CHATO'S LAND and TOO LATE THE HERO . Imagine how differently this would have been received if it was set in 1969 Vietnam where an American platoon team up with the NVA to get their hands on 16 million dollars worth of opium so they can sell it on American streets ? You'd still have the same basic plot but no one at the studio or in the audience would be smiling
Better Than A Lot Of TVMs I've Seen	TWISTED DESIRE isn't oscar material but it's better than most TVMs I've endured . Based on a " true story " the script is far better and involving than something like MURDER BETWEEN FRIENDS as Jennifer Stanton manipulates boyfriend Nick Ryan into murdering her parents . I honestly felt sorry for Nick . Anyone know when he's up for parole ?
Sorry But I fail To See Why It's So Regarded	I was really looking forward to seeing to seeing Alfred Hitchcock's REAR WINDOW because of the massive acclaim it's had from film critics , and when I say " film critics " I mean everyone from the professional journalists who have their own columns in broadsheets to people with real jobs who contribute their own amateur - But by no means amateurish - comments on this website . In fact much my desire to see this movie was down to the it being listed at number 14 on the IMDb top 250 movies list , so I stayed up late last week to watch it on television where it was broadcast at the ungodly hour of 2am and I'm afraid I was bitterly disappointed Maybe it was the fact that it was well past my bedtime that I could hardly keep my eyes open but it could have been down to the fact that this is one slow moving thriller and the more I think about it the more I start to think that the screenplay was originally written for radio ! The action is very static with Jeff Jeffries lying in bed recovering from an accident looking into a courtyard that is obviously a pastel coloured studio stage . I wasn't expecting explosions and car chases but I was expecting exciting plot twists not a film where the hero spends all day in bed Is Jeff really a hero anyway ? How would you react to someone who likes to watch pretty young girls sunbathing all day ? And instead of the always likable James Stewart playing the role how would you react if the part had gone to a lecherous bald middle aged man with glasses ? That's right you'd react like one of the villagers from a FRANKENSTIEN movie and lead a torch carrying mob to burn down Jeff's apartment I won't go into the plot but I will warn anyone who hasn't seen it not to expect very much . It's far from a masterwork of cinema and doesn't contain the director's imaginative visual style as seen in VERTIGO , the unsettling atmosphere as seen in THE BIRDS or the blackly comical twists as seen in PSYCHO
Entertaining Despite The Flaws	! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! In my review of AT THE EARTH'S core I said that the best of these Doug McClure gets attacked by rubber monsters in a 1970s British movie was THE LAND THAT TIME FORGOT . If this holds true - And it's been years since I saw that movie - then WARLORDS OF ATLANTIS is certainly the second best in the genre Written by former DOCTOR WHO script writer Brian Hayles the story has some imagination even though no one is going to confuse it with a documentary . An eclectic ship's crew is abducted by a giant octopus and taken to the ancient city of Atlantis which is ruled by an alien civilisation which is engaged in a war of attrition against giant rubber monsters . One of the abductees Professor Aitken is wanted by the aliens for his superior intellect while the others will be used as slaves . It also turns out the abductees must be converted into gill breathers within a few days if they are to survive their new environment . Naturally upon hearing this the ships crew don't want to stay in their new home An entertaining enough story and unlike AT THE EARTHS CORE the production values are fairly good since location filming involving oceans and caves are used . There is the old bug bear of actors standing in front of obvious back projection trying to look scared at a rubber glove pocket but that's not enough to ruin the movie , in fact that adds some charm and the script has the temerity to point out that mankind's greatest achievements have come out of fighting one another in terrible wars . There are one or two plot holes like why do the aliens consider Professor Aitken a man of superior intellect since he would have no understanding of space travel or Einstiens theory of relativity , in other words he's a cave man compared to the aliens . You also can't help but notice that when the characters escape Atlantis Delphine the female lead has been rather superfluous to the plot But these minor flaws are never enough to totally ruin the movie for a discerning audience and I have noticed how many comments on this page centre around " I saw this when I was a kid and I'd love to see it again so please bring it out on DVD " It's probably nowhere as good as you remember it from 20 years ago but it still remains a fairly entertaining movie
I Never Saw The Original . . .	. . . . But did this stop me enjoying the sequel ? No not really , I have to admit I didn't have a clue what was going on but the bizarre happenings probably added to the fun The story starts with Reggie a bald middle aged man with a pony tail ( ! ) rescuing his teenage friend Mike from the midget monks that appeared in the Joy Division video of Atmosphere . Did I say I was unable to understand what was happening on screen ? They then go on a quest to hunt down The Tall Man who is the leader of the midget monks in order to save the world , a sort of LORD OF THE RINGS where the heroes have poor hair stylists . That's it as far as the plot goes and unless you've seen the original you'll be as confused as I was . Still I found this movie vaguely fascinating and it did remind me of HALLOWEEN 3 : SEASON OF THE WITCH in some parts along with THE EVIL DEAD . Being a 1980s horror movie the production values are relatively low while everything seems to be centered around the gore level . Thankfully the film never takes itself too seriously and has a certain amount of charm amongst the mutilations and murders - Just don't ask me to write a thesis on it
Amusing Enough	This is a mockumentary featuring Gary who was we are led to believe the last child to be born in the 1960s . Strange that this would make Gary 35 years old because he appears considerably older , in fact he looks more like 45 ! But this is probably down to him being an underachiever . As Beck once said I'm a loser baby so why don't you kill me , a lyric that could certainly apply to Gary . He's a loser all right . he works as a store room supervisor and lives on his own since his previous partner moved out - To New Zealand in fact and Gary is very excited to be taking part in some speed dating Simon Ludders short film is nothing new . It's similar in concept and tone to the likes of THE OFFICE and THE WINGNUT TAPES but Ludders script does capture some of the art of comic timing and is typical of some crude British humour
Not Bad	I remember when this film was first released there was a lot of marketing hype about how this was " based on a true story " , but what wasn't pointed out was how this " true story " took place in the 1960s and for some inexplicable reason the producers updated it to the year 2000 or there abouts to the detriment of the story . It may have been difficult enough to believe THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES was a " true story " if it had remained set in the 60s but by placing it at the turn of the millenuim it's impossible to take seriously . For example after an incident a character is seen calling 911 on a mobile phone something that couldn't have possibly happened in the 1960s . It's a bit like SCINDLER'S LIST when you know a scene couldn't have happened like that and find yourself questioning how much else has been inventedDespite this serious criticism I did like THE MOTHMAN PROPHECIES . Okay so I didn't believe this was a true story but there's still much to admire . Director Mark Pellington brings a bleak atmosphere to the movie and there's a couple of scenes that made me jump out of my seat . The cast are fairly good but Gere is inconsistent . Let's face it , he's a movie star because of his looks not because he has an abundance of thespian talent , but I'll give him credit for his performance opposite Debra Messing at the start of the film which both poignant and moving . So a thumbs up from me because it's a haunting supernatural drama , even though I take the true story with a big pinch of salt
An Uneasy Mix Of Two Genres	Watching REIGN OF FIRE I was left with the impression that the script was originally written as a bleak post apocalyptic drama in the tradition of John Wyndham and John Christopher , where a Hollywood studio decided the script wasn't marketable enough so a studio executive decided to introduce dragons into the screenplay as a commercial gimmick Where REIGN OF FIRE works best is in its survivalist themes . Quinn leads a band of survivors and when they hear " Edinburgh is gone " they react if it's the worst news in the world . You can believe these guys are starving to death , that all hope is gone and when they see Denton's American militia arrive you know that the undercurrents of tribalism and rivalry are going to surface . Unlike 28 DAYS LATER this movie almost works as post apocalyptic thriller These " Shattered Earth " ideas are very convincing but as soon as the dragons are introduced the illusion falls apart because for a film marketed as featuring fire breathing dragons ( You have seen the posters right ? ) they seem to be there as an after thought and are totally underdeveloped in the script . There's no real explanation as to how or why the dragons were hibernating in the London underground and the whole concept doesn't bare up to any close scrutiny . Why weren't nuclear weapons effective against them when a dragon can be killed with a road pick ? Very little thought indeed seems to have gone into this aspect of the script and needless to say the ending is a cop out Note to Hollywood executives - If you're going to finance a film that features a desperate band of survivors can you cut out gimmicks like zombies and dragons please ? Thank you
Over Produced	The problem with this film is that it has so many big name stars that the story fails to do justice to the characters involved . Having said that the film does have its moments and does try to present the Luftwaffe crews as being no different from their opponents in the RAF . But after seeing CROSS OF IRON the previous week any film about the second world war is disappointing after that . Historical fact about the 1940 air war over Britain : Even if the Luftwaffe managed to destroy all RAF airfields they still wouldn't have the means to invade . The Nazis only had barges to cross the channel while the Royal Navy's fleet remained intact
Could Have Been So Much Better	This is based on a true story of how Frank Morris and the Anglin brothers escaped from Alcatraz prison . The story occasionally crops up on The History Channel and it's an interesting story more than an exciting one and to his credit director Don Siegel does preserve some integrity by making the story interesting rather than exciting and does leave the ending very ambiguous since no one found out the eventual fate of Morris or the Anglins . Did they escape ? Did the sharks get them ? Nobody knows so Siegel resists the temptation to give us his speculative opinions . If only Oliver Stone had taken a leaf out out of Siegel's book There is a problem with ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ that can be firmly delivered to Siegel's door and that's with casting Clint Eastwood as Morris . As soon as the credits open and Eastwood steps off the boat you're well aware that you're not watching a character actor playing a real life character - You're watching Clint Eastwood play Clint Eastwood , or more accurately Clint Eastwood reprise his role as Harry Callghan which ruins the film somewhat . Look at the scene where Wolf comes on to Morris in the showers . Weren't you just expecting the line " Go ahead punk make me gay " . At no time do you feel that Morris is in any kind of danger from any inmate because the role is played by Eastwood It's by no means a terrible movie and as some people have noted the story doesn't suffer from dramatic embellishment that Hollywood does frequently and badly - If the proceedings go very slowly that's to illustrate the grinding tedium of doing time . But the movie would have worked much better if Siegel had cast a fresh faced unknown in the role of Frank Morris , but there again a movie studio has to make profits at the box office
Persuasive But Maybe Not A Classic	For a movie made in 1943 SHADOW OF A DOUBT seems to lack period detail . The second world war was at its height with American troops landing in North Africa and leading the fight against the Japanese in the Pacific . Strangely these events are ignored in the narrative and unless I'm greatly mistaken I don't even think the war is referred to in any depth . Mind you Hitchcock had previously made a movie set around Nazi traitors in America ( As had several studios at the time ) so I guess many movie makers just wanted to move onto conventional thrillers devoid of patriotic subtextWatching this movie today I'm in two minds about it . I found the " Uncle Charlie is a good guy " slightly overplayed as he gives presents to his family and they greatly receiving them without any questions as to where the money came from or where he got them from but I did remind myself that very few people ever look a gift horse in the mouth and human beings are often overwhelmed by successful people in the hope that this rubs off on them so I shouldn't criticise any characters in the movie as being too gullible . I also guess people in those days were a lot more trusting than in the cynical late 20th and 21st centuries At the end of the day SHADOW OF A DOUBT has the persuasive idea that people aren't who they always say they are and you shouldn't take people on trust , but is this actually groundbreaking enough to make it a classic thriller in the way NIGHT OF THE HUNTER is ? Despite this criticism at least Hitchcock cast character actor Joseph Cotton as Uncle Charlie . If it was remade today we'd have Brad Pitt or Tom Cruise all teeth and smiles and a very poor script
Did Anyone Else Think The Plot Went In The Wrong Direction ?	! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! A Woody Allen comedy featuring a scam where his character Ray Winkler and his wife Frenchie buy a florist shop next to a bank so they can tunnel through the wall into the vault and steal the money . Not actually a bad premise and I had everything nailed down as to how the plot would develop : Neurotic hen pecked idiot hires an incompetent gang and we the audience are treated to a light weight though amusing example of sods law where everything that can go wrong will go wrong but that's not really how the story pans outUnfortunately once the plot twist of the Winklers turning the former florist shop into a bakery which then becomes a massive success I found myself thinking SMALL TIME CROOKS itself became less of a success since it veers into a direction I didn't expect it to take . We're also introduced to an English character played by Hugh Grant but maybe I shouldn't use the word " character " in the sentence because Grant is unable to play anyone in a film except himself . Can producers stop hiring him please since I've had enough of his cartoonish English fop since FOUR WEDDINGS AND AN UNDESERVED MOVIE CAREER It's not a bad movie but by the same token it's miles away from being a great one and would have worked much better if it had stayed to the task of having the world's worst bank robbers trying to tunnel their way into a bank
Entertaining Without Being A Classic Comedy Horror	I had often thought this was the best movie in the CARRY ON series , an opinion brought about by the fact that there's a couple of DOCTOR WHO references and that it combines the genres of comedy and horror . After seeing it recently I would say that both CARRY ON CLEO and CARRY ON UP THE KYHBER are better movies But CARRY ON SCREAMING still remains one of the better films in the series even if ( Or because ) it's off centre with its peers : the main character is played by an actor who's not a regular member of the cast , there's references to other popular TV shows of the time like Z-CARS and STEPTOE AND SON , and there's little of the cringe making innuendo seen in the later movies . There are some flaws that may rile fans of the post modernist SCREAM movies like no one noticing monsters stalking the woods or a lack of internal continuity where monsters being able to knock down doors then not being able to when the script requires it but CARRY ON SCREAMING remains a fairly entertaining movie almost 40 years after it was made
Fairly Good Korean War Film	Unlike a great many films dealing with the Korean war ONE MINUTE TO ZERO does try to bring a sense of time and place to the proceedings . We see planes from Australia strafing North Korean troops while another scene scene shows British troops marching off to war behind a Scottish pipe band , and the most memorable sequence features North Korean infiltrators using refugees as human shields which did happen fairly often during that exceptionally cruel conflict . Compare this to most other films about the Korean war which could have been set in Asia or Europe during the second world war . It does have a few flaws , for example there's some painfully obvious real life film footage used and some of the battle scenes , especially the sequence with a soldier being killed by a flame thrower , could have been more graphic but I suppose that's down to what you could show on screen in 1952 so perhaps that's not a valid criticism . What is however is the inclusion of a love story which drags the story down some what . Women won't want to watch ONE MINUTE TO ZERO because of the large number of combat scenes while fans of war films ( Who I guess are exclusively male ) will find the love story intrusive . But it's a lot better than PEARL HARBOR
Musical Dictator	There seems to be an inferiority complex about this version of THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK but why ? Mike Newall is a competent director and he's assembled a fine cast in something that doesn't resemble a made for television movie . The story itself is based upon a Dumas swashbuckling classic but there's a fly in the ointment that is an obvious giveaway that this version lacks confidence . What am I talking about ? Why the music of course . Whenever the film wants us to feel something Allyn Ferguson's score dictates how the audience should be feeling . Certainly the score for THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK goes with the visuals but did it need to be so obvious ? It's almost like listening to PETER AND THE WOLF where the music itself is the narrative and I'm not sure if that's a good thing in cinema
Entertaining But Not Much Else	A KNIGHT'S TALE is an old fashioned tale about a likeable trio of losers trying to get ahead in life , except it's set in ye days of olde ! . I remember when it was released the trailers featured the scene where everyone dances to David Bowie's ' Golden Years ' which led me to think it's some silly post modernist musical comedy . Yes it's a comedy to a certain degree and does features a contempary musical soundtrack but this doesn't detract from the film and never becomes silly . My only complaints are that it's maybe a little too old fashioned and the villain Count Adhemar doesn't do anything evil untill the final reel . All in all entertaining but instantly forgettable . Probably works best - unlike BASIC INSTINCT and BLACK HAWK DOWN - as a first date film .
What A Coincidence !	GOING BYE BYE is a Laurel and Hardy short that is possibly best remembered for its grotesque final scene . I use the word grotesque but you don't have to be The Masked Magician to work out how the physical trick is achieved . Oh hold on I'm starting at the end . The story gets off to a good start as Stan shows that despite all his innocence he does have a common sense approach to retribution - " Aren't you gonna hang him ? " , and there's other funny scenes and lines throughout the story . However there is a problem and that is the plot towards the end revolves around the quite remarkable coincidence of someone answering an advert who knows someone that Stan and Ollie don't want to meetAs some other people have said this isn't the greatest Stan and Ollie short ( To my dying day I claim THE LAUREL AND HARDY MURDER CASE is their greatest moment ) but as everyone else has pointed out it's still funny
Cliched	GOLD centres around a shadey conspiracy involving a South African gold mine . Since it's set in South Africa you can expect all the nausating cliches and stereotypes like the sadistic white racist who likes to beat up the " Feelthy blecks " , the noble black , the macho but anti racist white man etc . In fact much of the stereotypes are slightly offensive like " Big " King and his men who enjoy putting on a Zulu dance for the tourists . It wouldn't be so bad if they kept to the Zulu diet of their ancestors but these " Zulus " seem to have been overdoing it on the beer and pizza a little bit and I doubt if Stanley Baker and Michael Caine would have had much trouble beating them . Luckily none of the secret illuminati are called Goldberg or Goldstien because that would have been racist , so the director has made these shadowey figures either English , Americans and Germans , the only exception being an Arab . But don't worry about accusations of anti semetism because there's a character called Hirschfeld . I don't know if that's a Jewish name but he's portrayed as you'd expect a Jewish stereotype to be shown : Loud , vulgar , money orientated and is always smoking a big fat cigar . SLIGHT SPOILERS Despite all the racist stereotypes and cliches ( Or because of them ? ) I did find GOLD a fairly entertaining thriller . If I've a problem with the film it's that it tries to be too many things at once . In some ways it's not so much a conspiracy thriller but a disaster movie , but it's not really a disaster movie , and it involves a romantic subplot but it's not really a romance . I did enjoy the ending when the walls explode and the water gushes into the tunnels . Watch this scene carfully and you'll see a miner with a mutilated face which is obviously a dummy . Oh and if his face has been totally destroyed like that then how's he still able to scream ?
Will Probably Appeal To Werewolf Fans MoreThan Casual Viewers	This is a highly regarded movie amongst werewolf fans but I've never been overly impressed by it . I was disappointed by THE HOWLING after seeing it on video in the early 1980s and the fact that I saw AN American WEREWOLF IN London shortly before seeing this does the movie little favour either I think the problem lies in John Sayles screenplay . Go getting journalist ( strange how all journalists in movies are noble crusaders . Real life is entirely different ) Karen White is attacked by a serial killer narrowly surviving and goes off to a rural commune to recuperate . The audience instantly know who these people really are and whats going to happen next . It's not so much telegraphing a screenplay , it's more like making a terribly predictable one . The only reason I wrote a spoiler warning to this review was to guard my back but this is probably unnecessary since it's revealed fairly early on that the people living there are indeed werewolves so there's little in the way of surprises THE HOWLING isn't a total loss because the make up and transformation effects are well done and Patrick Macnee gives a touching performance as Dr George Waggner and there's a really scary moment featuring Eddie the serial killer when he reveals himself to the hero . But despite all this the movie is doubly disappointing when you realise director Joe Dante and screenwriter John Sayles were responsible for PIRANAHA a couple of years before , one of the most entertaining tongue in cheek horror movies ever made . With THE HOWLING they fall back on naming characters after directors who have made werewolf movies and use post modernist dialogue pointing out that a corpse doesn't get up and walk out of a morgue which isn't all that clever or witty
Not High Art But Very Funny	This certainly one of the better CARRY ON films which had me laughing out loud at the scene where the farmer is lecturing his pregnant daughter " You don't know what his name was ? Couldn't you have asked to whom do I owe the pleasure ? " The door is knocked and the farmer answers it to a man wanting some milk : " Oh hello there . I was round earlier and your daughter gave me it . And I would like some more please , but don't worry I'm willing to pay for it this time " Cut to farmer aiming his gun Classic scene
Very Watchable	A film doesn't have to be good to be entertaining and GIRLS IN PRISON is a case in point . The intelligence of the script starts and ends with a discussion of The Korean War " It's supposed to be a police action " " Yeah ? Then why the hell didn't they send cops " Which is dialogue that will be forever synonymous with Samuel Fuller who used the line in another film set around The Korean War . But after this exchange strange things start happening where we're shown live footage for the battlefront , something that didn't happen till ' Nam . The McCarthy witch hunts are alluded to but somehow feel overblown and false while someone refers to an ashtray that was given to him by " The King " . What in 1952 ? Maybe he meant the King of England ? I won't go into too much detail but in a contrived series of events a teenage girl called Aggie O'Hanlon finds herself serving a life sentence for a crime she didn't commit , and it's essential for anyone wanting to enjoy this TVM that they turn off their brain because there's plenty of things that don't make sense . For example a couple of inmates called Melba and Carol promise to protect Aggie . It's never revealed why they do this . Obviously being lesbian lovers it's very easy to jump to the conclusion that they want to involve the sweet and innocent Aggie in female love games but this isn't their motive at all because there is never any explanation for their motive , the audience just have to accept this without question . The audience have to accept a lot of things that defy credibility as the plot twists and turns but I have to confess I felt very involved in all this , yeah I know melodramatic and far fetched doesn't even begin to describe this movie but it is enjoyable thanks to the good looking cast ( Yes there is some T & A ) and some impressive pastal coloured cinematography from Jean De Segonzac
Could Have Been Much Better	The first thing to strike about this video release was the absolutely awful packaging - It comes in a shocking pink video cover . Would the Cybermen wish to be associated with such a garish cover ? I don't think so eitherThe clips used are more numerous than the number used in the previous YEARS tapes of the first three Doctors ( But that's not saying much ) and we do get to see several of the cast from the episodes featured so I guess that's a bonus , but there's a problem with the stories selected : Despite being written by different writers both THE MOONBASE and THE WHEEL IN SPACE have very similar plots of multi racial humans being under attack on remote outposts by Cybermen . In fact nearly every single DOCTOR WHO story featuring these metalic giants uses the exact same plotBut I shouldn't complain too much , as I said this video release is much better than the video releases featuring random episodes of the first three doctors , but I can't help thinking it could have been much better
I Was Entertained	I notice a lot of people have very few kind words to say about SPACE JAM . I must admit that being a Scot I have little interest in basketball and know very little of the career of Michael Jordan ( Who's Michael Jordan ? ) but I still found this movie to be fair entertainment . I guess a lot of people dislike this movie because Mr Jordan played for such and such a basketball team A bunch of evil aliens invade Looney Tunes World and cast the cartoon characters into slavery and it's left to a sports legend to save them ! Come on guys , plots don't come anymore original than that so what's there to dislike ? We also have a subplot of the aliens interfering with other basketball players which did cause some amusement to this audience member . Also very enjoyable were the number of cameos that crept up through the movie , most notably Bill Murray Okay I wouldn't say SPACE JAM is as great as WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT but it's still an entertaining family movie regardless of how you feel about sport . With this in mind I'm totally puzzled why my local ITV station decided to broadcast it at 1 . 10 am !
It's Not That Bad	I'm slightly puzzled as to some of the harsher comments featuring BOILING POINT . I will confess that it's not a thriller classic but I will defend it against the accusation that it's a terrible movie Red ( Dennis Hopper ) is released from prison and owes some mafia types money and so is given a seven day ultimatum . Jimmy ( Wesley Snipes - And no early 90s urban thriller is complete without Wesley Snipes ) loses a friend in the course of duty and the audience instantly know that these two unconnected characters will tie in with the plot somehow - And they do in a script that while not being the most tightly plotted screenplay you will ever see since there's a few too many characters involved is at least undemanding and easy to follow . On the style front it's not exactly in the same league as HEAT but probably contains more substance than an episode of MAIMI VICE while we also get to see an early supporting role from Viggo Mortenson . I rate BOILING POINT
Somewhat Unnecessary	Everyone knows the plot of THE INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS because they'd already been two adaptations before the 1993 remake . The same basic plot had also been done in the 1955 television serial QUATERMASS 2 which was also remade by Hammer films in the late 1950s and we've seen DOCTOR WHO stories like Spearhead From Space that uses a very similar premise . In short the idea had been done to death by the 1990s On its own BODY SNATCHERS isn't a terrible film , it is moody and dark as it should be , but it does have a rather mechanical script with a scene featuring some teen angst followed by a mysterious scene followed by a scene featuring teen angst followed by a mysterious scene followed by a scene featuring teen angst . Everyone knows that the plot revolves around alien infiltration so do the audience get to find out why the aliens come to Earth ? Not really , unlike the 50s original there's no real ambiguity as to the aliens motive or subtext either . I should also point out that aliens taking over military bases makes perfect logical sense if they want to nullify humanity but unfortunately setting the story on a military base where through necessity human individuality is disallowed and where the newly introduced protagonists don't know the other characters means we have a story that lacks compelling and terrifying drama . We find it somewhat difficult to care about the people involved because they lack individuality to begin with . As I said it's by no means terrible but BODY SNATCHERS fails alongside the 1978 version which I rate as the greatest paranoid thriller ever made
I Thought The Premise Was Good . . . .	. . . . And the execution bad I first saw this aged about eleven years old and thought perhaps I might be watching a cold war thriller similar to ICE STATION ZEBRA . You can see where I am coming from since both films feature a submarine traveling to one of the poles " We're getting bombarded with a metorite shower " warns one character , the submarine surfaces and I remember being shocked on first viewing at what the crew see - The sky is on fire I found VOYAGE TO THE BOTTOM OF THE SEA compelling and slightly frightening as a child , the thought that the Van Allen belt might catch fire seemed possible to me at the time since Britain had been treated to a wonderful Summer in 1976 . I saw the movie again a couple of years later and again sometime in the late 1980s which was the last time I saw itI was far from impressed with my last viewing , yes the special effect of the burning sky was convincing but what let the movie down was the ropey script and the rather poor production values elsewhere in the movie . Adm Nelson of the Seaview turns up at the UN debating chamber . Forgive me for being pedantic but isn't the UN chamber very , very big ? The one shown hear seems to resemble a cupboard ! Oh and if the world's leading scientists come to the conclusion that the Van Allen belt will eventually burn itself out how come the Seaview crew take it upon themselves that the experts are wrong ? And regardless of who's right and who's wrong surely the outcome to both solutions means the Van Allen belt will be destroyed meaning there's nothing to protect the Earth from solar rays meaning everyone will eventually die from the sun's rays ? So after this the movie follows a mechanical path of the Seaview getting into position to fire its nuclear rocket from a certain point in the ocean and the crew meeting obstacles like a giant octopus , UN pursuit subs and a couple of traitors . I guess this might have been exciting in 1961 but in 2004 audiences are more sophisticated which means you'll be able to nitpick something in nearly every scene Still it's probably better than the TV series it spawned
Many People Are Missing The Point	I remember seeing a clip from this film which involved Palestinians at a roadblock having to endure humiliation from the Israeli soldiers manning it . The scene then cuts to the Palestinian protagonist stopping his car beside a Jewish settler . I was expecting something to happen at this point but nothing did and decided to catch DIVINE INTERVENTION when it made an appearance at the Edinburgh filmhouse very recently to see if it made sense in a wider context I'll say one thing about Elia Suleiman and that is he know's how to hook an audience in to a story since this contains a truly memorable opening sequence where a much loved icon meets with some violence which will distress anyone who's hoping for some Christmas gifts . Unfortunately he's unable to continue the momentum of this and we quickly find ourselves in Michaelangelo Antonioni territory . It's been said that both Buster Keaton and Jacques Tati have influenced Suleiman but I believe Antonioni has a far more obvious effect . For example a character offers cigarettes to two other characters who then wave their hands in to shot showing that they are already holding lit cigarettes something the character would have been aware of but not the audience . Other examples would be the exploding tank which seems to have been inspired by ZABRASKIE POINT , or a character continually being told there's no bus as he stands at a bus stop and , but perhaps the most obvious example would be the ending involving a pressure cooker . Antonioni likes to irritate the audience with portent enigmas and Elia Suleiman has done the same here along with a few stylistic nods to Robert Bresson Unfortunately many people on this site and the handful of people in the audience of The Edinburgh Filmhouse seem to have misunderstood DIVINE INTERVENTION somewhat . This was most obvious during the discussion afterwards held by a distinguished epistemological film critic tried to concentrate on the ideas and influences behind the film and kept having the subject changed by useless idiots who were compelled to inform us all they knew about " fascist Israelis " and how the film didn't go far enough in " showing the brutality of the Israeli occupation " . Duh well it's not about the " brutality of the Israeli occupation " - it's about the absurdity of life under occupation and of the wider absurdity of everyday life . If you go and watch this film with a closed mind then you'll fail to understand it . DIVINE INTERVENTION isn't a great film but it's certainly one that can be appreciated by cinephilles rather more than mindless politicised idiots of what ever side of the Middle Eastern fence they're on
The Joke Wears Thin	Though I find HARRY ENFIELD AND CHUMS a very funny show I wasn't really expecting much from KEVIN AND PERRY GO LARGE and I was right . The problem is that Kevin and Perry were created and written for a comedy sketch show where sketches are tightly written and last for a couple of minutes so to stick them in a feature film in which plot and character development revolves around a couple of 14 year old virgins trying to get their legs over seems like a lost cause . That said I did snigger a couple of times like when Kevin is confronted by a girl he claims to have sh @ gged or when Perry does a poo in the sea , but the banal unsophisticated humour wears thin very quickly . Perhaps it would have worked better if we'd had a couple of cameos from other Enfield characters like the Scousers and Mr you don't wanna do that
It's Not Meant To Be Serious	This is one of Stallone's best films which isn't saying much I know , but still NIGHTHAWKS is an entertaining very dumb thriller . Absolutely nothing in this film is meant to be taken seriously least of all its portrayal of terrorism . Wulfgar is very obviously based on infamous playboy terrorist ' Carlos the Jackal ' but you cant help laughing at Rutgar Hauer as he resembles a Swedish folk singer complete with guitar , or the fact he travels from Europe to NY with a couple of suitcases containing guns and grenades , or laugh at the scene where Da Silva recognises Wulfgar by looking at the artists impression - which in no way resembles Wulfgar . Come on this is a deliberately dumb movie which is a million times more enjoyable than serious films like THE DEVIL'S OWN that deal with terrorism
Typical British Fare	This is a movie very similar to a large number of British movies produced from 1995 to 2000 . Notice how it falls into a formula ? 1 ) The protagonist is trying to pursue a dream in spite of adversity 2 ) It's set in the North of England 3 ) There's a blossoming romance involving the main protagonist and a supporting character 4 ) The main female lead is a strong character played by an actress known originally for their TV work 5 ) There's a political subtext BILLY ELLIOT follows the same formula as all the other films that preceded it like WHEN Saturday COMES , THE FULL MONTY , LITTLE VOICE , BRASSED OFF etc and is probably the last in the line of this typical British film making fare from the last years of the 20th century . Thankfully someone soon realised there's only so much that an audience can take before you kill the golden goose On its own BILLY ELLIOT works because it says a lot about British working class culture . Name almost any foreign country you want and the reply will be getting blind drunk , getting into mindless punch ups and becoming pregnant at 14 is a reason for shame . Alas British working class mores seems to allow this type of self destructive behaviour . What it doesn't allow is young boys to follow their ambitions as a ballet dancer less they be accused of being " some sort of poof " and the movie hits the nail on the head with this type of Brit culture . Yeah it might be ignorant attitude but that's the way it is in this country . Unfortunately by being so accurate as to British working class mentality means that BILLY ELLIOT works better as social commentary rather than entertainment
Surreal Short	A woman returns from the shops and decides to open a carton of eggs which then defy the laws of physics and splatter all her over kitchen ceiling ! That's not something that happens everyday . She then decides to have a nice cool drink , goes to the fridge and takes out some ice cubes from the ice box . Strangely despite the cold temperature the water hasn't frozen . She then decides to have a drink of milk only to find . . . . Despite being a fairly short short film at only three minutes DISCONNECTED is surreal and amusing . We the audience are involved wondering why this woman's home defies the law of physics . It's revealed at the end why and the scary thing is that you get the feeling that the government is working on this plan right now as yet another money making scheme
Must Have Been Quite Erotic At The Time	In many ways this movie is little different from other Hammer horror films produced at the time . It has an inn that doesn't take too kindly to strangers especially ones that don't believe in vampires , it's obvious that the " night " scenes were filmed during the day by sticking a blue filter over the camera lens and there's some really dodgy effects and make up like the very obvious dummy at the film's climaxWhat sets LUST FOR A VAMPIRE apart from other British horror movies at the time is some really superb ( For its day ) T & A on display complete with some lesbian kissing . It's also good to see some old fashioned buxom women who have never heard of the phrase silicone implants . That's something you don't see in horror movies nowadays I can tell you
Bias Gets In The Way Of Drama	Many people have stated how much this film terrified them when they saw it at cinemas in the late 1970s and I do agree that this could have been one of the most realistic and chilling films of the 20th century where doomsday is concerned . . . . . . But . . . The producers of the movie went and shot themselves in the foot by taking sides . Certainly you never feel you're being preached to while watching but the more you think about it afterwards the more you realise that the audience aren't being allowed to think for themselvesFor example if a nuclear power plant comes close to a meltdown as shown here why would everyone with the exception of Jack Godell choose to ignore it ? Surely their lives and the lives of their family are on the line as well ? Surely they'd be worried more about their lives rather than their jobs ? Surely it wouldn't just be left to the lone noble crusader to take on the corporate giants ? And if you think Jack's is a little too quick to turn from loyal company man to anti nuclear eco warrior then I agree with you . That's because the subtext is unapologetically anti nuclear therefore the audience are expected to realise Jack has seen the light even if it feels unnatural from a dramatic point of view In short Jack is something of a cliché as is the portrayal of the media with ambitious go getting TV journalist Kimberly Wells hot on the trail of an earth shattering story . Certainly casting Jane Fonda has helped because Fonda can act and Fonda knows how to fight her corner . Now imagine how laughably clichéd and one dimensional the role would have been if a pretty blonde bimbo actress had been cast instead ? Same with Michael Douglas cameraman Richard Adams . How many people watched the film thinking " Hey his dad's a famous movie star " or " I preferred him in that cop show with Karl Maldern " or " I can see why he ditched the beard " rather than " Would a cameraman really put his ass on the line for a point of principle ? " Unfortunately this makes the movie appeal only to people who are vehemently and unapologetically anti nuclear which is a great pity because no matter what divide of the nuclear debate you are on I'm sure we all want answers to the same questions like what safeguards are there in a nuclear plant ? and is it a good idea building nuclear plants in regions that are bothered by earthquakes ? but with this movie no one will have their minds changed about anything
Rather Flat Thriller	Roger Ebert amongst others expressed their disappointment at THE BLACK WINDMILL on its release . Much of this disappointment is down to the director being Don Siegel who directed many famous thrillers including INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS , DIRTY HARRY and CHARLEY VARRICK . He is a director well suited to high concept American thrillers but there's something so very stiff upper lip and British about the mis-en - scene of THE BLACK WINDMILL . Someone's son gets kidnapped and his parents discuss it like one of their goldfish has died . You'd think such things as guilt and recriminations would feature heavily but apparently Brits are even less emotional than the pod people in INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS There's also a few very , very large plot holes throughout the movie one of the largest of which takes place in the opening sequence . Two young boys go to an airfield to fly their model plane . How earth did the villains know that the children would be appearing at that location ? Probably because if they didn't the film would have started in a completely different way or may not have started at all . When you've got a big name director it's interesting how many people pay no attention to the narrative
Funny Despite The Weak Material	Oliver and Stan steal a bottle of booze from Stan's wife and depart to a speak easy . There that's the plot . No seriously that's the entire plot and it should have been awful but I spent most of the film with an amused grin on my face because it's a show case for the infectious mirth making slapstick of the greatest comedy duo who ever lived or will ever live . There's no reason why anyone should laugh at Stan passing a bottle to Oliver , or Stan putting an ice bucket on his head but I laughed out loud . Imagine if Jim Carrey and Chris Rock made a film where they bought some crack and decided to smoke it at an illegal drugs den ? It's with a premise like that you really do appreciate the talents of Laurel and Hardy
Too Much Artistic Licence I Feel	Hunter " Patch " Adams signs himself into a mental hospital suffering from suicidal tendancies and within five minutes he's cured a fellow patient of his psycotic delusions of squirrels , and then decides to go to medical school in order to cure the sick . It's at this point that I should mention Adams is played by Robin Williams in the type of manic motormouth heart warming role made famous in GOOD MORNING VIETNAM and DEAD POETS SOCIETY so to say PATCH ADAMS is predictable means I won't have put up any spoiler alerts . That's the problem with PATCH ADAMS and other true story biopics , as soon as the big name star is cast you'll find that the star is playing himself rather than the character he's supposed to be portraying . Artistic licence is unavoidable up to a point but I felt this film's more about Robin Williams than Hunter Adams
Perhaps Not The Best	Benny Hill is Britain's greatest ever TV comedian but this TVM compilation of his television show isn't perhaps the best tribute . My complaint isn't so much with what's included but more with what's not . For example what about the oft used sight gag of someone doing an intricate martial arts move only to have Benny pull out a gun and shoot them ? ( Indiana Jones does the same gag in RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK ) , or the legendary " Flashdance " where a bunch of flashers do a dance routine with raincoats ? What about the classic sketch of a man with a goose stuck down his trousers that keeps sticking its head out of his flies ? And how can you miss out send ups of WORLD OF SPORT or SALE OF THE CENTURY ? I guess the send ups are missing because this film has its eyes on an American / international market and no one outside of Britain would know about the shows getting the Hill treatment . Anyway let's concentrate on what we did get . . . . A hilarious chatshow spoof called TUPPERTIME where chatshow host Tommy Tupper invites Britain's oldest man , a footballing Vicar , a pipe smoking hellraising actor and a drunken singer onto his show with shocking results . Steve Coogan made a career out of the same idea . And we get to see Mr Chinaman arrive at immigration to be greeted by Bob Todd's Indian immigration officer : " Why you broody repleat evelything ? You got clopped eels ? I'll give you broody clumbs " . And of course we get Hill's angels in various states of ( Un ) dressEntertaining enough but not too representive of the comic genius of Benny Hill
Okay Movie	I'd never heard of the comic book character this film is based on , so right away you have the problem of bringing a little known superhero to a mainstream audience . THE ROCKETEER flopped at the box office while 2002's biggest box office hit was SPIDERMAN - The point being if you're going to make a blockbuster based on comic book heroes base them on well known onesOn its own I found THE PHANTOM to be as I'd expected : Entertaining , fairly dumb and ever so slightly sadistic . But I couldn't help feeling it came out ten years too late . In the mid 1980s following the success of the Indiana Jones films cinemas were deluged by similar type films like THE GOONIES and ROMANCING THE STONE . Perhaps if THE PHANTOM had been released in 1986 it would have made a bigger impact . The production values are fairly good except for the casting of Billy Zane who makes a bland superhero and Catherine Zeta Jones who makes a bland villainess , but it's fairly good fun if there's nothing else on the other channels
I Was Expecting Slightly More	This short film revolves around a couple of characters who are bored and want something to do . How about a game of chess ? Unfortunately one of the characters has eaten the pieces so that's that idea extinguished . How about a game of shadow puppets ? Oh a great idea as we get some abstract shapes against a wall . What on earth is that supposed to be ? MOOOOOOOOOOOOO Oh it must be a cow It's at this point that I should explain that the two characters featured are themselves shadow puppets ! I guess this is why some reviewers claim HUMDRUM is somewhat knowing , that it is almost post modernist and maybe it is and in no way is that a criticism but I was slightly disappointed by this effort from the Aardmann studios probably because the story itself is very slight and can be accurately described in my first paragraph . It is very inoffensive but at the same time very threadbare at only seven minutes
Good But Not Great	Check this out for a cast : Sean Connery - Scotland's greatest ever movie star Audrey Hepburn - An iconic actress Nicol Williamson - Many critics choice as Scotland's greatest ever actorRobert Shaw - Perhaps one of cinema's most overlooked actors when it comes to playing convincing bad guys Richard Harris - Another screen legend Ian Holm - In an early screen role . Can anyone think of a more convincing and consistent English actor alive in 2004 ? A great cast indeed but one that is not used to its full potential . Both Harris and Holm are very underused and their appearances at little more than cameos , and having a couple of heavyweight Scots playing the heroes does bring consistency to the characters ( Remember they've been together for years so why shouldn't speak with similar accents ? ) but their performances tend to cancel each other out There is another slight problem and that's the script . It seems to go against the legend of who Robin Hood was . People like to imagine that he was a good guy communist robbing the rich and giving the proceeds to the poor not someone who was a right hand man of Richard the Lionheart . I much preferred the mythical figure of the 1980s TV series that mixed myth and mystical plots . I also got slightly bored when the story started concentrating on the romance between Robin and Marion There was also a slight problem with the directing from Richard Lester where he tries to inject humour into the proceedings and it often fails . If I remember correctly this is something that spoiled his collabarition with Connery in CUBA , another movie that mixes action and romance with slight off beat humour Having pointed out these criticisms there's nothing much else wrong with ROBIN AND MARION , it's just that when you've got a bunch of butch men in a forest who dabble in swordplay in 2004 you're instantly reminded in some small way of a certain film trilogy that was released at the turn of the century which does spoil the positive aspects of this movie when watching it today . Having said that it's one of Connerey's better movies and Robert Shaw is very good as the villain with the battle between the two protagonists being every bit as violent and memorable as that seen in FROM Russia WITH LOV
An Ironic Title	Harry Caul is a surveillence expert who records a conversation that places himself as a witness to a murder plan . I thought I'd point this out because watching THE CONVERSATION it's obvious within seconds as to what Harry is but any possible plot development involving a possible murder plan doesn't take place until about 40 minutes into the movie's running time . Instead of cutting to the chase those of us with a low attention span have to wade through a story that doesn't appear to be going anywhere . Harry sits in a van , Harry plays the sax , Harry celebrates his birthday , Harry gets to meet Hans Solo before he became a space pirate . Maybe the slow pace shouldn't be taken as a criticism since no one is under any pretension that THE CONVERSATION is a fast moving thriller but at the same time it could have done with a little more excitement , or at least tighter plotting with more obvious high concept aspects Francis Ford Coppola amazingly is on record as saying this is his favourite directorial feature . I guess that as a director it was far more enjoyable to make than APOCALYPSE NOW but as a piece of breath taking art it is lacking . I won't be too negative though since Gene Hackman is as good as he always been even though he gives one of his more subtle performances and despite the criticisms this is a much more involving film that the very similar BLOW UP
Lightweight But Entertaining	THE HARD WAY was made at the tail end of the buddy flick phenomena . It uses the formula fairly well of having a street smart hardened cop who has seen everything and pairs him up with a partner who is the complete opposite . These type of movies aren't so hit and miss but you do get the feeling that when you've seen one you've seen them all . This movie is actually better than most down to the fact the two stars James Wood and Michael J Fox are two entirely different type of actors who suit there roles perfectly . It's also a movie that doesn't take itself or Hollywood seriously , check out the line about that little Scottish fella Henry the Fifth . Unfortunately the dialogue isn't the greatest that's ever been written for the screen with Woods tough cop spouting " Dammit " and " Fk " in equal measure . Take it from me that if someone curses with the F word they never EVER say " Dammit " and vice versa . Some people may also complain that THE HARD WAY is somewhat lightweight when compared to something like 48 HOURS and I suppose it is but there's no real jarring in serious scenes and the more humourous ones unlike some buddy movies THE HARD WAY isn't a movie that's going to change your life but it is entertaining , especially if you like James Woods or Michael J Fox
Changes Are Justified	Many people most notably original author Richard Matheson have complained about the changes of this film adaption of I AM LEGEND , but I feel the changes are justified . The novel has few characters and little dialogue which doesn't make it an ideal candidate for film adaption , likewise the book's subtle subtext on deviancy which would ask us to empathise with the vampires would be too much for a cinema audience so I feel the changes to the novel are justified . THE OMEGA MAN is a fair film . The mutant villains are nasty enough though their calling each other " Brother " does grate after a while . There's plenty of action and Charlton Heston does make a good hero . I liked this film
Rather Clichéd Melodrama	In its favour MAN DANCIN ' opening titles shows us exactly where it's set - On a rundown council estate in Glasgow which I'm fairly certain in the notorious Gorbals so director Norman Stone can be proud that he's brought a very strong sense of place to his film . Unfortunately Sergio Casci's screenplay then hits the audience in the mouth with a cliché as soon as the credits stop . Hardman Jimmy Kerrigan is released from jail and gets into an argument with a couple of local yobs which ends up with him getting a serious doing . A few minutes later we're introduced to the local gangster kingpin Donnie McGlone and then local DI Pancho Villers and it's at this point you realise you're watching a Western uprooted to present day Glasgow . It's almost like watching Jean Luc Goddard's ALPHAVILLE where the visuals on screen are entirely different from what is written down on the page . Honestly you get the suspicion that the screenplay was written as a star vehicle for Clint Eastwood in the early 1970s where the man with no name is trying to go straight Having said that at least the production team of MAN DANCIN ' haven't aped the style of Guy Ritchie which is a major problem with British films featuring gangsters from the same period but would it be uncharitable to point out that both film makers and audiences had become terminally bored with this genre ? The cast do their best with the material but it's a very clichéd melodrama that is entirely about redemption but for some reason remains watchable . It's as forgettable as it is watchable too
Slightly Flawed With Its Polemical Viewpoint	Journalists in films are cliches . They're always shown as crusaders setting the world to right whatever the cost to themselves . This is a totally cliched portrayal as some of the worst vermin breathing are journalists , many of whom are driven by greed and ego and will print absolutely anything to sell newspapers , they're not too bothered what they print just as long as it it ties in with a misguided editorial line and sells a few more copies , and that's the problem I had with WHEN THE SKY FALLS , its heroine Sinead Hamilton is shown trying to take on Dublin's drug dealers almost single handed . I also had a problem with the black and white characterisation , everyone is either a nasty piece of work or a victim , the exception being MacKay played very well by Patrick Bergin who's a sort of Dublin equvilent of Jack Regan or Frank Burnside who's not below bending the rules to get results . He's by far the most interesting character in a film that suffers from a rather shaky view of drugs . Smack addicts are shown to be hapless victims at the mercy of their dealers , but is this actually true ? I was under the impression that many addicts also sell drugs in real life in order to pay for their addiction , not as shown here selling paintings to tourists . And there's no real attempt to address the wider issues of drugs and what to do about the problem in this film . As one reviewer has touched upon WHEN THE SKY FALLS tries to be a straightforward thriller and a socially aware film at the same time and by doing so it fails in trying two things at once . WHEN THE SKY FALLS isn't a bad film , in fact it was probably the best one I saw that night , but the other movies I saw were THE MUMMY RETURNS , SPECIES 2 and CODE RED so the competition wasn't up to much . Hopefully next time someone makes a film dealing with drugs they might like to take the unpopular view that people volunteer to become addicts , a point TRAINSPOTTING made very well
Informative To A Degree	AWAY ALL BOATS differs from a lot of war movies at the time . It's shot in colour ( Don't forget that many prestigious war movies from the mid 1950s were still being done in monochrome ) and doesn't suffer from the seriously deadpan pseudo intellectualism of many other war films of that period The setting for the story is on the USS Belinda , a navy transport ( Assualt ? ) ship in the Pacific campaign . It should be pointed out that AWAY ALL BOATS is also a film that doesn't concentrate on action , so don't go into this film expecting massive explosions all the way through because it's a much more thoughtful film than that . We see why discipline is needed , why it's a bad idea to wax a floor on a ship and why aircraft identification is very important , it was very rare in those days for Hollywood to show a friendly fire scene and after seeing this movie you'll feel as though you've just served alongside Captain Hawks A war film that's possibly more informative than it is exciting but one that has merit
Difficult to relate to	ALIVE opens with a spectacular plane crash but ( No pun intended ) goes quickly downhill from there . ALIVE is based on actual events but is never as good as it should have been , though it's never as bad as it could have been either . The problem I had with the film was that I found it very difficult to relate to the survivors , not because they eat the flesh of the dead - Thankfully this aspect of the film is treated with dignity - but because their characters are so sketchily written . The other problem is that the production team seem to have forgot that it's set thousands of feet up the Andes ! The night after the crash the survivors nearly freeze to death but by the end of the film some of them are sitting around without their jackets on ! Just how warm does it get up there ? All in all ALIVE is adequate but doesn't make us share the feelings of the survivors triumph . For that to happen we must feel we're there with the survivors freezing and starving . I didn't , I felt more like an observer
I'm On The Side Of The Robot	There's no dialogue in this animated short , only sound effects and a musical score that's probably best described as chamber music but Matthew Hood uses the storytelling rule of " Show don't tell " so the narrative is very easy to follow : A robot is made ill because of the rats that are now inhabitating his metallic body The animation resembles the special effects as seen in Timothy Hines notorious remake of WAR OF THE WORLDS which is safe to say is computer generated . What Hood conveys in doing very well is humanising the protagonist . Think about it , it's natural for the audience to take the side of a mammal ( Even if they are vermin ) against a non flesh and blood creation but METALSTASIS is made with enough charm to more than succeed as an animated short
Better Than Socks	I used to love Sacha Baron Cohen's creation of Ali G on THE 11 0'CLOCK SHOW in the late 90s . I also liked the spin off show though it should be pointed out by then the joke was wearing thin and it was obvious his guests were in on the joke of having a white boy impersonating a black ghetto boy wannabe . When ALI G INDAHOUSE was released I didn't bother to see it because Ali was probably past his sell by date then . But my brother bought me the video of this film and watched it on Boxing day and I must confess it was a lot better than I expected ALI G INDAHOUSE is a very funny if you understand the " Wigger " culture of middle class white boys wishing they were black . I was laughing out loud at the first half of the film as Ali lays down the facts to his posse that wearing the wrong colours in the ghetto could cost you your life , and Ali on the election trail had me in absolute stitches as he drove down Staines high street giving a rap broadcast , but then the film goes slightly downhill as an extremely unlikely political plot takes shape and the jokes slow down So all in all ALI G INDAHOUSE is funny but slightly uneven . I still watch the video a couple of months after getting it but only the first half . It's a lot better than getting socks for Christmas so thanks for the video Neill
Slightly Disappointing	I remember looking forward to this since it was written by THE LEAGUE OF GENTLEMEN'S Mark Gatiss who wrote the previous years story featuring Charles Dickens and gas zombies . But after seeing the episode I felt rather disappointed and it's down to one very simple reason . The entire plot is summed up in the pre title sequence . After this - which I do agree is effective enough - we still have to endure a story which we know will end up with the Doctor defeating the alien and it's just a question of how . There's little surprise involved and this week's obligatory dysfunctional family subplot is more irritating than usual . There is one other aspect conspicuous by its absence and that is Gatiss is a big fan of the QUATERMASS serials . For some reason the story is set at the Queen's coronation which was no doubt a big national event at the time but surely 1950s television was the decade where Nigel Kneale as a household name . Imagine if the audience had been watching an episode of QUATERMASS ? Wouldn't that have been a brilliant post modernist tour de force ?
I Doubt Very Few People Watching This In 2005 Will Understand It	In 1960 Britain was the first European country to scrap conscription . This is not to be confused by the American style draft system because with very few exceptions all able bodied men who turned 18 had to serve two years in the forces regardless of social and educational background . The scrapping of conscription was a good thing because there's nothing more dangerously useless to an army than a soldier who doesn't want to be a soldier I'm pointing this out because that's the concept behind CARRY ON SERGEANT - A professional NCO who receives the worst possible raw recruits into his platoon and you find yourself questioning who you're supposed to feel sorry for the most , the recruits who don't want to be there or the sergeant who doesn't want them there but that wouldn't have been the case when this film was made , a 1958 audience would have related more to the recruits than to the sergeant . This sort of idea will go above the heads of a modern day audience and the film has dated very badly not least because it's the very first in CARRY ON franchise . Anyone expecting sexual innuendos will be very upset to see they're more or less conspicuous by their absence . In fact with the exception of a few cast members like Kenneth Connor , Charles Hawthrey and Terry Scott a lot of people would with hindsight have trouble believing that this was in fact part of the CARRY ON franchise I've got to be honest and say the lack of the CARRY ON trademarks is no bad thing because if double entredes is the selling point of a comedy then 1958 censorship rules would have meant the innuendo would have been curtailed and that would have meant no humour full stop . Instead this is a gentle but ultimately heart warming English comedy featuring a typecast but impressive enough William Hartnell training a platoon he thinks is destined for failure
Could Have Been Even Better	I did enjoy parts of DUMB AND DUMBER , notably the blind boy with the parakeet , the cop tasting the beer and the manly love in the toilets , but I can't help thinking it could have been a whole lot better if the two main protagonists played by Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels had a little more depth . As it stands they're both stupid , they both sport ridiculous hairstyles and they're both in love with the same women and that's about all the character naunces we get . It's very difficult to believe in them as real people due to their stupidity becoming just a little too incredible and it's not helped by Jim Carrey's slightly OTT performance , though to be fair he's not as bad as he usually is . It is good to see that the Farrelly brothers improved this protagonist flaw with their next movie KINGPIN and hit the button with THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY by having the main characters play everything straight in comedy situations All in all DUMB AND DUMBER is a fairly good comedy ( A genre I usually despise ) let down somewhat with silliness . Not a comedy classic but entertaining enough
Cameos And Political Correctness Get In The Way	This is a movie based upon the late Randy Shilts book AND THE BAND PLAYED ON , a book that I have never read but know has been critically acclaimed and praised for its readability since it is very similar in structure to a detective novel as scientists try to track down and identify a virus that is killing gay men . I also know the book also received some criticism because it was written by a HIV + homosexual who seemed to have a political axe to grind . If that's the case ( Again I confess to never reading the book ) then all I can say is that this is a very well adapted story Certainly the story works best when the scientists are on the case . If the story about the nationalistic rivalries and plain old fashioned egotism ( A Nobel prize to the first person to identify this illness is a certainty here ) of the scientific community had been the main focus this would have been superb drama but ironically because of a need to make the drama more human we're introduced to far too many characters so that the story soon descends into mawkish melodrama and yes I did notice something of an agenda in here Take the bath house sequences for example where gay men congregate for casual sex and a character points out to Dr Harold Jaffe ( In reality it's being pointed out to a mainstream audience ) about how a hetrosexual equivalent would be somewhere a man would be able to meet lots of beautiful women for meaningless but great sex . This equivalent doesn't actually exist in reality though and we a mainstream audience are being asked to sympathise with homosexual promiscuity . In many ways it's a form of emotional blackmail , if we can't empathise with this lifestyle that marks us down as " homophobic " when homophobia doesn't come into it - Promiscuity is the problem here . Later the owner of the bath house Eddie Papasano speaks about how he's not going to shut his premises down because he'll lose money . Oh boy you can see where this is heading , greed is good for the pocket and bad for people who choose to have sex with complete strangers . Are we to take it the greed of Eddie Papasano and the people who use his bath house are comparable to the blood bank executives who scared of losing their profits don't screen blood donations for HIV + Of course not , but this TVM makes out anyone wants to make money in whatever form is a cold hearted villain and anyone committing promiscuity is a hard done by victim . It should be pointed out that Phil Collins is laughable in the role of Papasano Phil Collins isn't the only inapprotiate cameo in this television movie , the whole TVM drowns in them , it's even more distracting than THE LONGEST DAY with big name or familiar face actor appearing in the shortest scenes : Alan Alda , Richard Gere , Anjelica Houston , Steve Martin , Ian Mckellan and Saul Rubinek to name but some all make appearances which seems more like a parade of Hollywood liberals and makes you realise that you're watching a TVM . Like the story the familiar faces should have only been confined to the scientists working on the case rather have appear in pointless cameos AND THE BAND PLAYED ON ends with a poignant epilogue made even more poignant when one of those featured is Elisabeth Glaser who died on December the 3rd 1994 , the day after this TVM received its British network premier
Fair Epic But Let Down By A Lack Of Narrative Drive	I'm still trying to decide if NICHOLAS AND ALEXANDRIA is a good film or a bad film . Truth be told it's a bit of both . Unfortunately I'm going to have a problem deciding if the bad overwhelms the good or vice versa . This is epic film making by Sam Spiegal , but is far from being the best movie he's produced . I had a problem with the script for BRIDGE OVER THE RIVER KWAI and I've got a problem with the one here . I know it's an epic film but overlong doesn't equal epic . For instance one of the characters suffers from haemophillia and this is mentioned in one point in the movie , but then it's mentioned 15 minutes later , then 15 after that , then again after another 22 minutes . Just mentioning the condition once would have been quite enough . We also see characters like Lenin , Stalin , Kerensky popping into the narrative and then disappearing without little rhyme or reason . It does become obvious by the end that their inclusion probably wasn't necessary and gives a feeling that when they do appear they are under written anyway . Rasputin especially suffers from this type of scripting and the whole movie would have worked much better if it solely concentrated on his relationship with the Tsar's wife instead of giving us a history lesson on the last two decades of Russian imperial history . If truth be told it's not very good history either There are good aspects to the movie , and the cast are probably the best one . Perhaps Spiegel wanted so many characters included because he wanted to cast the cream of British talent . We've got Olivier and Redgrave both knights of the British stage alongside Julian Glover , Harry Andrews and Jack Hawkins . What a cast and as you'd expect they give very good performances . But let's not forget the two best performances belong to two unknown actors called Michael Jayston and Tom Baker . It must have taken some courage casting these two actors in such prominent roles Jayston still occasionally appears in TV roles while Baker found world wide fame as DOCTOR WHO . And let's not forget that a few other unknown actors like Brian Cox and Ian Holm appear in cameos . A good film for those wanting a three hour epic or seeing a host of big name actors when they weren't house hold names in their own household , but not really a film for serious students of Russian history
Slightly Disappointing	I'd heard very good things about Howard Hawks THE BIG SKY and the synopsis in TV guides made it sound good - A fur trapper makes a dangerous voyage into the American wilderness and battles Indians . Sounds good doesn't it so I was hoping to see the type of colourful fast paced adventure that Hollywood does best As soon as the opening credits came up it was only then that I realised the movie was filmed in black and white . Oh dear I thought it would have been in technicolor , it's not too deluded to think that it would have been in colour since most films had abandoned monochrome in the early 50s and after ten minutes I realised that it wasn't fast paced either because too much time was being dedicated to character introduction . Wouldn't it have been better if the movie started by Jim Deakins arriving at a port , spotting the boat and saying " Hi I'm a fur trapper and I need a lift up river " and through Jim's voyage on the boat we're introduced to the characters there and then ? It's obvious this movie is well regarded because of the sequences where the boat is stalked by the Indians for several days which culminates in an attack and this part is very memorable , but it's only the longest episode of a fairly episodic story , up until then we see different subplots popping in and out of the story . By trying to be " epic " we have a loosely plotted script instead of an undeniably epic one To be fair THE BIG SKY isn't a bad film , just one that's not as good as it could have been . As far as films set on a boat goes it's nowhere as bad as ANACONDA but it's nowhere as good as APOCALYPSE NOW is either
Not That Bad	SHALAKO is a movie that often appears in peoples least favourite western lists and looking at this page many people have said how much they dislike it but as someone who doesn't like the genre all that much I can't say it's all that bad First of all the premise is fairly simple without being threadbare which while not being a guarantee you'll be watching a great movie is often a guarantee you won't be watching an awful one : A bunch of European toffs on a hunting trip arrogantly wander into an Indian reservation and after being warned to leave by former army scout Shalako decide to ignore his expert advice which leads to some nasty consequences . It's not a great story but it does allow for some character conflict and some serious violence . It might seem tame today but this movie was produced in 1968 when audiences were still being treated to war films where when people were shot they give a pained expression , clutched their wound and slowly sank to the ground like a dying swan . The somewhat sadistic violence is probably the main talking point of SHALAKO especially the scene with the sand and the necklace , you'll know the scene when you see it Yeah it's flawed film . One point is the many accents used which makes it rather difficult to understand the dialoguein some scenes which probably annoyed an American audience while many of the characters remain somewhat underwritten , I kept forgetting senator Henry Clarke was in the story until he appeared on screen in an infrequent manner . As for the casting Eric Sykes seems to be doing his comedy routine while Apache chiefs shouldn't be played by African Americans But all in all SHALAKO isn't as bad as some people would have you believe
Could Have Done With A Bigger Budget	I first saw THE ODD ANGRY SHOT in the early 1980s when my knowledge of the Vietnam war was very little and my knowledge of Australian involvement was zero . It also has the distinction of being - Apart from THE GREEN BERETS so that doesn't count - the first feature film I saw to be set around the conflict of the Vietnam war which was fortunate because this low budget Aussie film doesn't hold up very well compared to the big budget Hollywood productions of the 70s and 80s . For example the locations resemble the bush of Northern Australia rather than the jungles of Indo - China , that's probably because this film was indeed filmed in Northern Australia , and the fact that Australia has such a small pool of actors means some of them are unconvincing as SAS soldiers , namely Graham Kennedy . I wholeheartedly defend this film for not having massive battle scenes because that wasn't actually the role of the Aussie SAS in Vietnam . Based in the province of Phouc Tuy about 70 kilometres South East of Saigon the regiment's role was intelligence gathering , reconnaissance and identifying VC guerrillas in supposedly " friendly territory " , in other words their missions were totally different from the way the American military decided to fight the war ; ie as a conventional conflict . Though it should be pointed out THE ODD ANGRY SHOT goofs that several SAS soldiers died in the conflict , in reality the SAS lost their one and only trooper in a firefight in January 1967 . Not to be totally negative the film makes the poignant and all too real statement at the end that instead of treating its former servicemen as heroes - Whatever the rights and wrongs of a war - no one will care because " They're more interested in what's happening on Coronation Street " . How true . How bitterly unfairly true
Very Daft But Not Unentertaining	Never mind about pens being sharpened I had the knives out for THE CANNONBALL RUN and when I read that it was directed by Hal Needham the same director of SMOKEY AND THE BANDIT the knives were getting extra sharp . I mean we've got a movie full of stars ( A film full of stars is usually the sign of a not very good film especially if one of them is Burt Reynolds ) set against a story of characters having a road race which sounds like an over produced version of THE GUMBALL RALLY and if truth be told that's exactly what we've got , but it's nowhere as bad as I feared Okay let me point out that THE GUMBALL RALLY is not a great film but by the same margin it's not an awful one either . It's very daft where Jackie Chan plays himself except he's Japanese ( ! ) as does Roger Moore who's actually Jewish ( ! ! ! ) and this sums up the movie in that it's entirely mad but in an endearing way . It's very good natured and I can understand why many people describe it as " fun " . It's inoffensive without being politically correct , amusing without being laugh out loud and silly without being embarrassing . If it has a problem it's entirely forgettable but I do remember liking it after seeing it ten minutes ago , not immensely but I did like it
Entertaining Enough	I found TRESPASS an entertaining enough thriller . Okay it's not PC but so what ? If you want political correctness go and watch EASTENDERS or some other right on crap . Off the top of my head it's one of the few films I can name where a bunch of homeboys are all the same colour , normally they'd be more cosmopolitan than the united nations which I find to be highly patronising . And I should point out that the white characters aren't shown as being noble heroes before anyone accuses me of racism . It's good to see a thriller that didn't cost tens of millions of dollars to make . The cast are mainly unknown , most of the action takes place in the one location and there's no CGI . The only problem I have with the film is the way the credits roll rather abruptly but that's hardly a criticism
Could Have Been Better	I heard about THE BUNKER as soon as it came out ( Being a British movie it would have received far more publicity here than it did in America ) and it seemed to split the critics right down the middle . Some people thought it was a great and atmospheric horror movie while others thought it was a confused cross genre story . Some critics thought it was a good idea to let the cast talk in their native accents while others were puzzled why a bunch of British soldiers are wearing German uniforms fighting against the Americans ! I don't have any problems with the British accents and idioms such as pronouncing the rank of Leutnant as " Left-ten-ant " but I do have a problem trying to identify with the characters . They're Germans from the mid 1940s , they're " the enemy " and even though they're doing a soldier's duty the audience can't think of them as anything but bad guys . It's the same with the very similar THE KEEP where the audience wonder who they're supposed to be rooting for . Perhaps if the characters were Volkstrum protecting Germany from the Red Army this aspect could have worked better but as it stands it's difficult to feel sorry for the characters . Incidentally aren't the surnames Franke and Engels of Jewish descent ? Ironically enough while watching this I found myself often wishing that this was either a straightforward horror film or a straightforward war film . The early action scenes are very well directed by Rob Green while the scenes set in the dark catacombs are certainly atmospheric but it's the revelation at the end that you suddenly realise that THE BUNKER is neither a war film nor horror film but a ghost story mixed in with a redemption plot and its at this point you are allowed to decide if the film is successful or not and I'm afraid that it failed for me , an interesting failure but still a failure . Some people have complained it would have been better if the soldiers had faced zombies or something more horrific and I agree . Certainly it would have made for a more ridiculous less thoughtful film but would also have made for a more memorable and entertaining movie .
Different From What I Expected	Despite being released a year before LA CONFIDENTIAL this movie instantly reminded me off the acclaimed film noir classic . A bunch of LA cops working just outside the law strut their stuff and break the rules for a higher morality . They don't take any crap especially from crims So far so good . MULHOLLAND FALLS while not being a bad movie in the first half does suffer slightly from a seen it all before feel but pales slightly in comparison to LA CONFIDENTIAL . Sorry to mention that movie again but if you've seen both movies you can't help being reminded of comparisons . Then about half through MULHOLLAND FALLS becomes more and more intriguing and takes on an identity of of its own . Unfortunately it's not all together successful since the setting seems rather anachronistic for conspiracy theories . Imagine if the story had been updated to the 1990s . Wouldn't this have had a better sense of time and place ? There's one or two other problems that people have picked up upon with the most obvious being a wasted cast . Nolte is always good at playing tough streetwise cops and he doesn't disappoint here , but touted rising stars ( as they were at the time ) Chris Penn and Michael Madsen aren't given anything to do while John Malkovich is rather ridiculous as a retired General . If you want a retired US General try Brian Dennehey . There was also something else that has been mentioned and that's the final scene of the Michael Mann series CRIME STORY - I kept expecting a similarly ironic scene to befall some of the main characters , in fact I would have bet my rent money on it happening but it doesn't which left me feeling slightly cheated All in all MULHOLLAND FALLS isn't a classic movie though it certainly had the potential to be one . If only the script had been slightly better it could have been
Good Or Bad ?	The opening scenes of TIGERLAND with army recruits being screamed at by NCOs are very reminiscent of FULL METAL JACKET . In fact the more TIGERLAND goes on the more you'll be reminded of PLATOON , SPR , SOUTHERN COMFORT etc . This is by no means an original film . That said TIGERLAND does have some impressive aspects like the performances . If you don't know this already let me point out that Colin Farrell is from Dublin in Ireland . It's impossible to not notice this in real life as he talks in an almost indecipherable Irish brouge . Here however he's utterly convincing as Bozz a reluctant recruit from Texas . Likewise the director Joel Schumacher directs with immense skill making the film look like a fly on the wall documentary . In fact I often forget that this was a feature film and I was watching something that actually took place . Oh and this is the same Joel Schumacher who directed BATMAN and ROBIN . YupThe script is rather strange however . It rightly points out the unpopularity of the Vietnam war and how the American army was totally demoralised by it in 1971 . By this time American officers and NCOs were in as much danger of being fragged by their own men than by the enemy and there were almost as many servicemen being treated for opium poisoning in South East Asia than were treated for battlefield wounds , but this leads to a major plothole : Why are so many Americans still accepting the draft when they don't want to ? I do notice that Bozz takes the part of a barrack room lawyer and allows some of these extremely reluctant recruits to be exempted which means they don't have to emigrate or look over their shoulder on the run from the draft but it's almost as if they knew they'd be meeting Bozz at boot camp . Doesn't this strike you as hopelessly contrived ? And I'm very confused as to why Bozz wants to stay in the army since he doesn't want to be there eitherAll in all TIGERLAND is a success down to its rising star and director . But be warned if you're a lover of blood and guts war films you'll be rather disappointed and ironically if you hate war films you'll also hate this too
Bad Enough To Remain Very Watchable	I didn't think THE HAUNTED HEART ( As this movie is known in the UK ) was going to be up to much and it wasn't but this didn't stop me from enjoying it immensely . As ElviraVixen pointed out it's awful but will hold your interest for most of its running time . The plot itself revolves around Olivia Hendrix a rather sad and lonely middle aged woman who has only one son Tom and only one friend Mrs Jay and because of her sad loneliness she smothers young Tom too much while she listens to Mrs Jay too much . When Tom decides to leave the nest things start to head for a collision course The production values are somewhat poor and if it wasn't for some strong language you'd think this was yet another TVM but what makes it so watchable is the performances and Michael Angella's disturbingly seedy script . Granted it's rather awful but I did enjoy Mrs Jay ( Superbly played by Olympia Dukakis ) attempted seduction of Tom and the quite laughable dialogue : " Fuchsia ? But I hate fuchsia " and " Do you think you can remember that you stupid bitch ? " It might be a good idea to wear a diaper while watching this since you might just wet yourself laughing . The climax is gloriously contrived and incomprehensible but sums up the movie perfectly and my only real criticism is that we never hear Pink Floyd's track Mother which almost certainly inspired this terrible but highly entertaining movie
Too Trans-Atlantic	I was going to take issue with the IMDB classing this as an American movie but perhaps I shouldn't . It is financed by American money , distributed by MGM and has both eyes on an American market , two of the main protagonists are played by Americans while the two main British characters are played by John Cleese and Michael Palin who are well known in the States because of MONTY PYTHON ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Perhaps this is why I didn't enjoy A FISH CALLED WANDA as much as I should have since comedy plays second fiddle to appealing to a middle American audience . Anglophobic criminal Otto is a one trick pony who hates limeys and calls them " A$$holes " a lot . I'm surprised Kevin Kline won an Oscar for this since he's far from terrific in such an under developed role . John Cleese plays a sort of surrogate Basil Fawlty which is great but he's not awarded enough screen time . If the film revolved around Archie this would have been a far better film . The only bits that made me laugh was the sub plot of animal lover Ken trying to bump off the witness but accidentally killing her dogs one by one and the scene in the cell with George and Archie : George : Tell those pigs to f offArchie : F off pigsOh dear I've mentioned all the funny bits
Why Is David Lynch So Popular ? . . . .	. . . . Because he's easy to analyze . Look at the opening sequence to BLUE VELVET - A montage of shots of suburban America followed by a slow pan into the grass where insects crawl from the ground . Don't you get it ? Like the ground there's something ugly trying to break through the calm reassuring surface of suburban America . Gosh what a genius Lynch must be allowing the audience into the concept of subtext like that . But can anyone tell me why he continually casts Kyle McClachlan in his movies ? He's got a pretty face but not much screen presence . But BLUE VELVET isn't a bad film ( Though it's not as good as its high IMDB rating says it is ) , Lynch doesn't go overboard with his often pretentious style of directing and it's a film that would deserve the oft used tag of " Hitchcock style thriller " for the most part , though Dennis Hopper's show stopping performance as the villain is something better suited to a Scorsese picture . But it's Hopper who made BLUE VELVET so memorable for me
I Laughed	I've read some of the comments on these pages and I'm slightly surprised as to what people were expecting from AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIFFERENT . I guess some people are more familiar with the atypical movies THE HOLY GRAIL and THE LIFE OF BRIAN rather than the ground breaking comedy sketch show . I do admit the BBC show is a somewhat accquired taste but here we have some of the show's funniest sketches brought to life . Favourites of mine are Squad camp it up - Don't come that Brigadier bit with me , I know where you've been two three Hells grannies Good job I didn't mention the dirty knife Nudge nudge wink wink He's pining for the fjords
I Couldn't Believe The TV Guides . . .	. . . Gave THE ANDERSON TAPES a bad write up . Seriously this was a very well regarded heist movie when it was released but for some reason when it was broadcast very late on Channel 4 the other night all the TV guides said Sean Connery was wasting his time appearing in this turkey . I know Connery has appeared in more turkeys than reusuable stuffing but THE ANDERSON TAPES isn't one of them . It might not be classic Connery like THE HILL but as entertainment it more than succeeds I can't help thinking that the TV guide critics are somewhat underwhelmed by certain stereotypical aspects of the movie . Take for example the getaway driver who is black . There seems to have been an attitude in the early 70s that white men can't drive , see also DIRTY HARRY . But I think it's homosexuality rather than race that upsets some TV guide critics . Oh come on chaps , it's a fun thriller not some Derek Jarman art house ego trip and lines like : " Describe him ? Fifty . Slightly podgy . Fag " and " Do as your told and my man will keep his weapon in his pants " " I'll be the judge of that " are actually amusing in a mainstream way . It might be politically correct to laugh at these things nowadays but at the time of the original caused a wry smile . And we get to see a very early performance by Christopher Walken before he became known as " Dead Career Ham Walken "
I Was Expecting THE X-FILES	Seeing as FINAL DESTINATION was written , directed and produced by people heavily associated with THE X-FILES I was expecting something very similar to the classic American show but in the early stages the movie reminded me of that episode of THE TWILIGHT ZONE where William Shatner is on a plane and Fozzie Bear from THE MUPPET SHOW is sitting on the wing . The film turns into a " Teenagers dying one by one " flick after this point which is a sub genre I'm not normally too keen on but this one is better than most mainly down to the way the director and screenwriter trick the audience into thinking a character is going to survive only to see them die seconds laterBy no means a classic movie FINAL DESTINATION is still a fairly entertaining one
The Fight Scenes Are Good	Oh dear , take a look at the production values in the opening scene of THE WAR LORD . We see location long shots of the characters with their backs to camera so we can't see their faces then cut to a medium shot of Charlton Heston and co standing against back projection . This happens throughout the movie with shots of characters in long shot ( And who are obvious stand ins for the big name actors ) to jarring cuts of Chuck and company standing in front of studio sets or back projection or indeed stock footage of wild life . It's very annoying and oh so obvious There's several things that don't go together . One is Arabs and nuclear reactors , another is Steven Seagal and celluloid , but perhaps the two things that should never combine is American accents and ye olde world dialogue . Richard Boone especially is totally unconvincing as an 11th century warrior while Chuck is . . . well he's Charlton Heston , a man who shouts and has a strange looking hairstyle . I don't believe people looked or spoke like this in Normandy But what the hell , this is a Hollywood movie and Hollywood shows us what it's been doing best for decades : ignoring historical facts , giving us good guys and bad guys , a bit of romance and most of all - action . Despite the rather pondering nature of the script and the patchey production values the last third of the movie is taken up with some very impressive battle scenes as the bad guys try to storm the good guys castle . Okay we've been spoiled rotten recently by Peter Jackson's LORD OF THE RINGS and THE WAR LORD battle scenes might not seem that good in comparison but please remember this was made in 1965 have must have seemed quite breath taking at the time . Did anyone else feel watching the Vikings trying to burn down the doors that it gave Peter Jackson some inspiration for the battle of Helm's Deep ? As a footnote to the fight scenes I remember as a young child watching a movie that featured Vikings running about engulfed in flames after attacking a castle . It wasn't until last week at the grand old age of 37 that I realised while watching it again that the movie that impressed me all those distant years ago was THE WAR LORD , and I wasn't disappointed seeing the battle sequences again
Gritty British Thriller	Like a great many reviewers on this page I liked ESSEX BOYS . Okay maybe it's not a classic like GET CARTER or THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY but it's good to see a British gangster film that owes absolutely nothing to Guy Ritchie . Best thing about the film is Sean Bean's performance as the psycotic bad guy . It's probably the sort of role that doesn't need any type of thespian talent but Bean plays these type of bad guys very well and it's very easy to see why when a Hollywood producer wants a slimey limey villain Bean's name is top of the list . The only real problem I had with the film is the caption at the start which refers to the real life events which meant I was able to work out the ending of ESSEX BOYS well before it happened
Takes Too Long To Reach Its Destination	I decided to tape this one afternoon and after about an hour I switched onto see if it had finished . Not quite , but I did see some sort of Muppet who I take was King Kong's offspring and a dinosaur that resembled something a five year old child could have made at school . Hey I thought to myself I think I'll enjoy this To a certain extent I did enjoy it especially where the Muppet gorilla and the tiny children's paper maiche creations are concerned but I have to point out that they don't make an appearance until late in the film - Too late for SON OF KONG to be a great sequel . Considering this movie has such a short running time too much of the screenplay is spent introducing characters and setting up the final set piece . Worse it does so in an entirely contrived manner and when you've a story that's both long winded and contrived that can't be seen as anything less than a failure by screenwriter Ruth RoseBut let me repeat the final long awaited segment is entertaining especially for children of all ages as they try and stifle a snigger at what is supposed to be a giant ape and prehistoric reptiles . SON OF KONG does have entertainment value , just not enough
Interesting Short Film	I'm not much of an expert of short films and I'm even less of an expert on Danish humour or indeed even if Danes have a sense of humour ( It's geographically close to Germany ) but GRAVEJR known in English as ANOTHER BLUE DAY is typical of a lot of short films . It has a small cast ( Two speaking parts ) and an offbeat premise . Two people who have never met one another come across each other as they attempt to commit suicide by jumping from a bridge , so right away some suspension of disbelief is needed . I mean what's the chances of that happening ? It's also unlikely either of them would choose a bridge where a car passes an average of once every 14 minutes but are either of them serious in their intent to kill themselves ? One thing I did notice about this short was its quality of music , in other short movies the music is closer to muzak or sound effects but the music heard here is genuinely cinematic I wonder if this means it's a suspension bridge ?
A Standard Western	In my review of ULZANA'S RAID I made the point that Alan Sharp had written a Vietnam war movie and had located it back a hundred years to the wild west . Here Sharp has written a western and transferred it to the Glens of 18th century bonnie Scotland . I mean think about the plot for a moment , a greedy cattle baron strikes up a land deal only to double cross the home steaders and it's up to Mister home steader in a white hat to clear his name and bring Mister greedy cattle baron to justice . The allegory is even more obvious with the amount of scenes that take place in crowded bars that always end with somebody challenging someone else to a fightNo matter because I actualy preferred ROB ROY to BRAVEHEART . Okay I've got to be honest and say I wasn't entirely overwhelmed by either production but at least ROB ROY was actually filmed in Scotland with a Scottish director working from a script that was written by a Scot and this movie has the better cast . Liam Neeson is good as the title character ( And I'm glad no one thought of casting Clint Eastwood ) and he is very well supported by John Hurt , Brian Cox , Andrew Keir and of course Tim Roth deservedly won an Oscar nomination for his role . The only disappointing performance is with Jessica Lange , or rather her accent which keeps turning from American to unplaceble Scots , but I guess the Scottish accent is difficult to capture , rather like the hero of this movie
A Word Of Warning	I saw this on DVD ; " Another breathtaking performance from the Oscar winning star of American Beauty . Kevin Spacey is Darrow " screamed the DVD cover . Turning the case over Kevin Spacey's resume is the most prominent feature pointing out all he films he's won awards for . Ironically for a true life film about truth and justice and law the DVD case doesn't point out that DARROW is a TVM from 1991 when Kevin Spacey wasn't a household name in his own household . Slightly naughty in my opinion to market this DVD as a sort of star vehicle for one of Hollywood's biggest stars But as TVMs go this is pretty good . The production values are good as we see horsedrawn carriages traveling through the streets of America a hundred years ago . But as you may expect DARROW does suffer from a few flaws . First of all there's maybe too many court cases involved to do them all justice . For example the McNamara bombing case and its consequences seems to have enough time dedicated to it , but the Eugene Debs case would have benefitted from more screentime while the summing up of the infamous Leopold / Loeb case takes up more screen time than the case itself , while the scopes monkey trial " My father's most famous case " isn't shown onscreen and is relegated to a voice over . Secondly Spacey seems to be sleep walking through most of the film . He's by no means a bad actor but I do find him slightly overrated and in DARROW I failed to find much indication of star quality . Best acting performance is by Chris Cooper ( Yes that one ) an actor who's as underrated as Spacey is overrated . All in all a good TVM . If you're a Spacey fan you'll certainly like DARROW . If you're not a Spacey fan you'll still find positive points . Just remember that it's a TVM made before Spacey was famous and you won't be disappointed
Art Lovers Will Prefer This To Casual Viewers	John Frankenheimer's THE TRAIN is well regarded by many people but I can't say I was too impressed with it . I think my reservations may stem from the fact that I'm something of a philistine when it comes to art and in order to enjoy the maximum potential of this film it's vital you understand the importance of art I don't think " Art " ( And how do you define art ? ) is important so it's impossible for me to care much about the characters : " How do we stop the train departing to Germany ? " asks a resistance member " We stick some plastique under the carriages and then the Nazis will shoot some hostages " replies the resistance leader You see people are prepared to kill and die for art but while watching the movie I was none the wiser as to why this might be . It must be something to do with bitter Franco - German rivalries ? My opinion of THE TRAIN wasn't helped by seeing the excellent second world war espionage thriller OPERATION CROSSBOW the previous day where the German characters spoke mainly in German but here they talk English with strange accents and there's a sequence in a hall where we see the Nazi caricatures of people goose stepping around going " Heil Hitler " which while never reaching the parody of many other films comes across as rather unconvincing . Surely we should portray Nazis as human monsters rather than comic strip creations ? There are some positives such as the performances of the always excellent Lancaster and Schofield ( Who would have been even better if his character had spoken German instead of English ) and the black and white cinematography is outstanding but at the end of the day THE TRAIN is a rather forgettable cinematic journey
Very Well Cast	I do confess that I have read the Kama Sutra and there's an awful lot of misconceptions about it . It is NOT some hot porn manual that will get your juices flowing , it's a very thick book about the art of love . If you've bought a copy simply to use as masturbation fuel then you've certainly wasted your money . Likewise if you bought the book to wave around during some moral crusade with a rather dubious agenda The film is very similar to the book . Many people who have stated their opinion have obviously watched the movie either expecting to be shocked or to be brought to orgasmic ecstasy but that's their problem because like the book with the same name this film while being somewhat erotic is also rather dull . It's not an adaptation per se just a rather unconnected and tenuous example of a book and movie sharing the same name . The only reason it's called KAMA SUTRA is down to the fact that it's taught to a group of courtesans , the rest of the plot involves something of a love triangle . It's also a movie that's not well made with a visual look of something that appears to have been shot on very poor stock film I will praise it on one aspect - The casting . For this type of movie to come close to any type of success the casting of the lead female must be right and Indira Varma as Maya simply steals the film . He is strikingly beautiful but he also oozes a type of pure innocence . It's very easy to see why Raj Singh has fallen in love with her . Singh is played by Naveen Andrews who everyone in the world will now know via a very successful American show but you'll never be reminded of Sayid Jarrah while watching this because Andrews is very convincing . I do feel slight sympathy for Sarita Choudhrey as the other pivotal female role of Tara because her part feels rather underwritten and understandably she doesn't have the same type of breathtaking beauty as Varma unfortunately This could have been a very poor film and to be honest it's not a great one either , but some clever casting and fine acting make it worth watching at least once
Popular Doesn't Always Equal Good	The previous episode The Stolen Earth was a legend in itself , an episode that contained the greatest cliffhanger in the programme's 45 year history Not only that but it was number two in that week's TV charts . Would Journey's End deliver the goods and top the TV charts for that week ? It did . Did it deliver the goods though ? Probably notIt would be impossible to think we'd be seeing a new doctor at the helm of the Tardis because the show is so popular the BBC would never be able to keep a lid on it . Indeed watching The Stolen Earth again it's fairly obvious how the Doctor was going save his present incarnation and I don't believe for a second that Russell T Davies ever envisaged that the Doctor's hand would ever play a prominent role when he wrote The Christmas Invasion except for a vague inkling that he'd be able to use it as a cop out ending one day . He also had a cop out with his " One of the companions will die " spiel . Wasn't Rose supposed to die at the end of season two ? Yes she did but not dead in the sense you or I would understand Much of the failings of this episode are entirely down to the pen of RTD . The writing is overblown , cluttered and underdeveloped but I imagine that's only to be expected since it straddles four seasons of Nu-Who and the two spin off shows . The episode is a hideous example of incestuous cannibalism with references everywhere , so much so that it's impossible to make head nor tail of it half of the time and when you do there's often a big plot hole there somewhere . Let's see now , The Osterhagen Key will blow up planet Earth if the world is stolen and used as part of a reality bomb ? It might make sense if you honestly believe that the Earth can be stolen but not even in a fantasy series like DOCTOR WHO does this seem credible . Even if it were why couldn't the Daleks and Davros have used another planet ? Why did it have to be the Earth ? The irritating thing about all this is that the episode can be fairly good when it tries to be . Davros taunting the Doctor while we have flashbacks to people sacrificing their lives to save the Doctor do have an impact to them . Likewise the flashbacks of Donna but these strengths are often undermined by the nonsense that surrounds them . If we're going to see ten minutes of a manipulative character scene then why not go the whole hog and kill off that character ? Probably because RTD wants to leave the door open to that character returning at a later date no doubt . I really do fear that Tennant's final story will be the biggest fan obsessed continuity ridden mess that it is possible to make Journey'sEnd has been typical of end of season stories from the pen of RTD butonly Bad Wolf / Parting Of The Ways can be described as being dramatic . In fact I would go as far as saying that story was one of the greatest pieces of television drama ever written so obviously Russell T Davies can come up with the goods when he tries . Unfortunately coming up with the goods is a rare occurrence from his pen and I'll be glad when he leaves the show . He does deserve great credit for being a populist though and it'll be interesting to see how well the show fares under a combination of Matt Smith in the title role and Steven Moffat as producer
Fairly Good For A Winner Film	CHATO'S LAND was shown alongside DEATH WISH on BBC1 tonight as a tribute to the late Charles Bronson . To be honest this isn't much of a tribute down to the simple fact that Bronson has very little dialogue and only a few scenes in a film that concentrates more on the posse than their pray . A far better tribute would have been that Bronson movie that contains the classic line " Put down those melons " On its own merits CHATO'S LAND is a fairly entertaining and intelligent film featuring a ( White ) posse on the trail of an ( Apache ) fugitive . It's one of those Vietnam allegories as seen in TOO LATE THE HERO , ULZANA'S RAID and THE CRAZIES . Don't believe me ? , well check out the scenes with the Mexican being the surrogate South Vietnamese and Ezra Meade a metaphor for the anti war movement and just to hit the audience over the head with the point there's a sequence of a village being burned to the groundMichael Winner is hardly the greatest film maker who's ever lived ( Check out the very obvious day for night filming ) but he does deserve some credit for casting someone who actually looks like an Indian in the title role and it's not often you see a couple of Scottish characters in a western who give a very , very accurate description of rain soaked Greenock
Just About Works	This received its British network television premiere at 3 . 20 am on Channel 4 . Believe me this is never the sign of a good movie since in the last few weeks we've had to endure garbage like THIS FILTHY EARTH and DEAD BABIES also being given their premieres at an ungodly hour and boy did they deserve not to be seen I have to admit I made a point of watching THE INVISIBLE CIRCUS since it featured Christopher Eccleston , an actor I've admired since his debut in LET HIM HAVE IT ( Hands up who'd be watching the new series of DOCTOR WHO if it starred a children's television presenter instead of a serious actor ? ) but from the opening sequence of Cameron Diaz dancing in slow motion I was convinced I was going to be watching another piece of pretentious art house crap and as soon as I heard Phoebe's voice over I was having reservations about the movie . Bare in mind I was watching this about 3 . 30 am which is far too late to be staying up even if you're singleThe worst part of this movie is the start since it's rather sentimental and 60s agitpop man . Phoebe's father dies and her elder sister Faith leaves the house to go to Europe with her lefty hippy friends . Faith dies and a few years later Phoebe travels to Europe to find out what happened to her sister . The story then picks up as it turns out Faith joined the German Red Army Faction and after committing a bombing that killed a young father she commits suicide by jumping off a cliff in Portugal Yeah okay the plot featuring Faith becoming a commie terrorist is very unlikely but despite this it's acted well enough for the audience to be taken in if not totally convinced . But I don't want to give the impression that THE INVISIBLE CIRCUS is a kind of political Euro thriller in the vein of RONIN or YEAR OF THE GUN because that's not what the movie is about , what it's about is guilt and redemption and just about succeeds on this level . It's beautifully acted by the cast but Eccleston is always good while Cameron Diaz is a revelation and makes me wonder what she's doing making crap like CHARLIES ANGELS ? And as a footnote Eccleston's character is called Wolf . It's strange because in the current series of DOCTOR WHO there's numerous references to " Bad Wolf " and one can't help thinking that since Russell T Davies is a self conscious post modernist writer this might have something to do with Eccleston's role in this movie . We shall see
Different From What I Expected	Remember when this was released in the cinemas ? Remember what two scenes they played in the trailers ? " Apologise " " No " Out with the throwing knife " AAAARRRRGGGGHHHH . I APOLOGISE ! " and " We're going into the wilderness with a lunatic . He's behind me , isn't he ? " Which led me to believe we'd be watching a film comedy centered around a bunch of wannabe cowboys from the city being guided through the New Mexico wilderness by a psycho called Curly . Considering these two scenes were very prominent in the trailers and adverts and the fact Jack Palance won an Oscar for his part as Curly this unfortunately isn't really what the movie is about Three city slickers ( Hence the title ) are having a mid life crisis . Well two of them are - the other is suffering from getting caught committing adultery - so decide to take the opportunity of a once in a life time working holiday of a cattle drive . The first half hour is taken up by introducing the characters , a sort of chick flick for middle aged men , the second half hour sets up the story proper while the third half hour revolves around men doing what men have got to do and starts to descend into unneeded sentimentality with large eyed calves staring into the camera . What stops this from ruining the film the use of some smart dialogue . But CITY SLICKERS could have been so much better if it had a slightly more sadistic edge
Strange Mix Of Good And Bad	THE NIGHT CALLER is a very uneven movie in that it's sometimes excellent and sometimes awful . For the most part it's very atmospheric and downbeat sci-fi film noir where most of the scenes are filmed during night and resembles the classic QUATERMASS BBC serials of the 1950s where scientists team up with the military and Scotland Yard to deal with an extraterrestrial menace Unfortunately it becomes clear that the script wasn't written by someone as intellectually or dramatically gifted as the legendary Nigel Kneale and it's the plot and dialogue that's the problem with audience being subjected to some quite laughable techno babble that anyone with any type of basic scientific knowledge will roll their eyes at . Once the alien masterplan is revealed people will be falling out of their seats asking " Is that it ? " and let's not mention some very ludicrous plot holes like how does an alien from another planet learn to drive a car or acquire money to rent an office This is a movie containing a strange mixture of good and bad aspects and it's by no means an ordeal to sit through especially like me you're a fan of QUATERMASS , the original series of THE OUTER LIMITS and early 1970s DOCTOR WHO but it's a movie that should have been a lot better and shows like 28 DAYS LATER that if a film is good it's down to the director and if it's bad it's down to the screenwriter
Don't Mention The War	Like a great number of other people I had mixed feelings whether the Oscars should be going ahead or not , it's almost impossible to justify an extravaganza like the academy awards while there's a war going on , but to their credit the producers kept it fairly low key with no massive self congratulation that we often see . And credit where it's deserved to Chris Cooper and Adrien Brody for their dignified speeches . Brody especially won my respect as he mentioned his friend out in the Gulf . But of course there's always someone who doesn't know when to keep their mouth shut . Whatever the rights and wrongs of the Gulf war Michael Moore shouldn't have been allowed to go on a political rant and should have been cut off long before he was , Jane Fonda didn't bring heartfelt opinions to the Oscars so someone who's not fit to lace Miss Fonda's boots shouldn't either . I did enjoy Steve Martin's wisecrack about teamsters helping Michael Moore into the boot of his limo And speaking of Martin I thought he was the best host the event has ever had . Barbed comments about red carpets , and France and Germany had me grinning , but I laughed out loud as he said that it doesn't matter if you're straight ( Camera cuts to Harrison Ford ) or Gay ( Camera cuts to Jack Nicholson ) . Martin then said he wasn't going to mention the people he slept with ( Camera cuts to Nicole Kidman , Julie Andrews etc ) but the best line was about the gay mafia : " I don't want to mention them in case I wake up with a poodle's head in my bed " Here's hoping Martin is the host for many years to come As for the awards themselves THE TWO TOWERS was the only picture I saw last year that was nominated for Best Film so I can't really comment if the awards were justified or not but I thought there was something fundementally wrong with the choice for best director . Obviously having sex with a minor and jumping bail isn't a bad career move and it was nice to see some members sat in their seats shaking their heads when the winner was announced . You've also got to feel sorry for Martin Scorsese since the rumour mill has been whispering that GANGS OF NEW YORK was his last chance to pick up the award for best director . I was also shocked that the film didn't pick up any awards on the night as Daniel Day Lewis was the hot tip for best actor . CHICAGO won best film which surprised me as it picked up a row of Oscars for technical achivements but then lost out to THE PIANIST for all the major awards So a night of surprises and controversy . Let's hope next year we'll see Steve Martin hosting Oscar night where RETURN OF THE KING sweeps the board
Maybe I Expected Too Much	It was a fellow board member of this site who told me about this Kiwi short and taking his advice I watched it . Normally I wouldn't have bothered my behind to set the video because I have very little interest in short films but I'd heard positive things about THE FRENCH DOORS . Alas I was slightly disappointed by it , it's by no means bad in anyway but it suffers from the fault of a great number of short films and that is there's little explanation . It's similar in feel to a Clive Barker short story where style takes precedence over content but again Barker is a writer who leaves the reader wondering what it all meant and I'm left wondering what THE FRENCH DOORS was all about . Of course if you live on your own in a big house out in the country in the middle of nowhere you might just find this film terrifying , and I do admit I jumped out of my seat at the ending but some stories are too enigmatic for their own good and THE FRENCH DOORS is one such story
Despite Everything THE BEGUILED Works Very Well	THE BEGUILED is indeed a memorable movie , but when you think about it in any great detail this should have been a disaster of a movie1 ) There are no likable characters . Think about it , Eastwood's anti hero is a bush-wacker while the girls - Some of whom are serious jail bait - are hypocrits . Who are we supposed to be cheering for ? 2 ) Nothing much happens 3 ) The downbeat ending . Everyone loves happy endings right ? Just think how regarded THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION wouldn't have been if it wasn't for the feel good factor4 ) You could see this being marketed as a western when it was released and still being marketed as such every time it's shown on television and all the western fans being disappointed when they find out it's not a westernAnd yet THE BEGUILED works because of these things . Eastwood is hardly the most versatile actor in the history of Hollywood but he's most impressive here while the supporting cast shine . Don Siegel direction is very restrained , some people might say the directing is flat and they wouldn't be entirely inaccurate and that's by no means a criticism but he does concentrate on a slightly brooding atmosphere Perhaps the reason this movie works so well is down to the timing of its production . By the early 1970s conservative Hollywood was finally waking up to new ideas and new themes even though there was still reluctance by the studios to go over board . The movie is blatantly about repressed sexual desire but there's no explict sex . Can you imagine this being remade today with Brad Pitt playing the Union soldier who stumbles into the girls school with 19 year old starlets with implants playing 15 year olds ? Now that would be a disaster As it is THE BEGUILED is a haunting story worthy of Poe or Ambrose Bierce and shouldn't be remade
The Irony Is That It Feels Like A Hollywood Movie	I was looking forward to seeing 9TH COMPANY , a film that broke all records at the Russian box office and that caused veterans of the red army to leave the cinema in tears . With hindsight this sounds like the same reactions from 20 years earlier when veterans from the Vietnam war left American cinemas after watching PLATOON , FULL METAL JACKET and HAMBURGER HILL . The problem with his Russian equivalent is that it's perhaps too equivalent to the aforementoned films Students of narratology and structuralism will instantly recognise the connections . We see the recruits turning up at basic training camp getting their heads shaved , we see a scene where the trained but green troops are given the low down on as to what motivates the enemy and the new troops see death as soon as they arrive at the airport . Couldn't screenwriter Yuriy Korotkov and director Fyodor Bondarchuk disguised these influences a little bit more ? This is a failing . I was expecting a much darker film with an identity of its own . I remember seeing an HBO production called CITIZEN X which dealt with a serial killer during the Soviet communist era . CITIZEN X didn't really concern itself with being a serial killer murder mystery but had a subtext of how a dictatorship fails its people . I'm sorry to say this but if you took the characters from this red army unit changed their names and transplanted them to the jungles of South East Asia in the 1960s you'd be watching a very straight forward and generic war film that you've seen before I can't claim to have seen battle but there's a couple of times when the mis en scene didn't ring true . Considering the Soviets had been in Afghanistan for 9 years and are led by battle hardened NCOs the company make fundamental operational mistakes like walking along a valley bunched up together . Also the climatic battle scenes seem to suffer badly from editing . The mujahedeen swarm over the lines Soviet line then it cuts to a dwindling band of survivors with all the Afghans no longer there . What happened to them ? In effect 9TH COMPANY is by no means a bad film . It does have good production values and some bloody violence but it's not a film that will have you learning much about the success and failures of the ill fated Soviet military expedition to Afghanistan in the 1980s and I'm afraid I wa expecting more . One can't help thinking that in a few years we will see a breath taking movie set against soldiers battling Islamic fanatics in Afghanistan but will be an American film featuring NATO troops
Forgettable	FOR YOUR EYES ONLY is not particualy bad but nor is it all that good . It's certainly a vast improvement on the truly abysmal MOONRAKER but the puns are still awful ( " Stinging in the rain " ) as is the muzak soundtrack which sometimes sounds like it belongs in a European porn flick , and Julian Glover one of Britain's greatest living stage actors is a major disappointment as Kristatos , probably the series least memorable baddie . Roger Moore tries vainly to make his Bond a bit more gritty , but he's not helped by John Glen cutting to long shots during Moore's stunt scenes . We are not fooled Mr Glen , it's obviously Roger's stunt double doing all the dangerous stuff . By far the best bit of the film is the pre title sequence which refers to Bond's dead wife and features the final appearance of Blofeld . And FYEO does try to bring a bit more realism to the Bond films but despite - or because of - this FOR YOUR EYES ONLY is possibly the most forgettable Bond film to date
Yo This Momma Is One Hot Cat	Is this a racist film ? Let's examine the evidence where the black hero dude is a funky sex machine ( Notice how the soundtrack sounds exactly like porno muzak ? ) and where the hero says brother , cat and baby a lot as in " Yo brother " , " she's a hot cat " and " Start talking baby or I'll break your other arm " , and lets not forget that this movie has black and white villains with the bad guy's moll having a fetish for black men . You really do get the feeling that if the Nazis had won the war we'd never get to see a film like SHAFT IN AFRICA . Fair enough it's guilty of playing up to stereotypes but I actually like to see stereotypes now and againThe actual storyline feels more like a James Bond movie than the previous urban thrillers featuring Shaft , it's somewhat episodic and very bloodthirsty with the hero surviving a muder attempt by a white guy then surving a murder attempt by a black guy then surviving a murder attempt by another white guy . As I said I did enjoy the political incorrectness and the high body count . It's far better than any of the other SHAFT movies and I'm including the recent Samual L Jackson version
Tarantino Anyone ?	I've just seen THINGS TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD and liked it a lot . However I've got a suspicion that 24 hours from now I'll like it a lot less than I do at this very moment . Indeed as I sit here writing this review my mind is increasingly filling up with the aspects I didn't like , things like . . . The rather simplistic plot . This movie is a very simple revenge thriller , maybe a little too simple and this probably explains why there's . . . Too many characters . Take Lucinda for example the street girl with a heart . Is there any reason for her to be in the movie except to provide a bitter sweet moment towards the end and to show Jimmy Tosnia also has a conscience . We know Jimmy is a great guy so the boardroom scene is unnecessary which adds to . . . The movies running time . It's about half an hour too longThere's another slight problem and as many people have already pointed out it's that it's very similar to a Quintin Tarantino movie , perhaps too similar for THINGS TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD to stand on its own two feet . Did anyone get the feeling that the character Dagney was written for Uma Thurman in mind ? No doubt when Uma was unavailable they cast an equally undernourished actress in the role . The musical score is very good but again is very unoriginal . In places it's almost identical to THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION but strange as it seems both films had different composersStill this is a good movie at mixing extreme violence with witty one liners . How witty ? Check this line : " It's a liberal thing . One minute you're saving the rain forest and the next you're chugging ck " , hey I'm telling you THINGS THE AVERAGE GREENPEACE MEMBER GETS UP TO would be an even better title for this movie
Came Out At The Wrong Time	BILLY BATHGATE isn't a bad film , and takes the trouble to show us the young and impressionable title character attraction towards the criminal underworld , a world where money and molls come easily to hand . It's also slightly old fashioned and you can imagine Edward G Robinson or James Cagney playing the part of Dutch Schultz and that's where the problem lies - Dustin Hoffman , who is a fine actor but I found him too laid back and since THE GODFATHER we don't expect mafia dons to be laid back , we expect them to be played By Pacino and DeNiro and see them throw things around and shout " My family " a lot . But worse still BILLY BATHGATE was released after a certain cinema masterpiece that featured Joe Pesci as a psycho hitman who never uses sentences unless the F word appears in every second word which means every gangster pic from the same era pales in comparison . So if you're going to watch BILLY BATHGATE judge it on its own merits because the performances are good enough as is the story , it's just that I kept hearing a voice in my head saying " I'm a funny guy ? Just what is so fing funny ? " while I was watching
Effective Thriller With A Few Minor Problems And One Major One	As made for television movies go DUEL is an absolute legend . It's possibly a little overrated in my opinion but thank goodness it doesn't revolve around Jane Seymour or Victoria Principal nursing a sick child . It is of course the movie that kick started the career of Steven Spielberg and you do wonder slightly if this had been directed by A . N Other would the TVM be so well remembered today ? Would it also be obtuse to say that much of the acclaim should be heaped upon Richard Matheson's script that brings up subconscious fears about traveling through strange rural territory ? There are a few flaws to the movie , like it's never explained why Mr truck driver is making life hell for David Mann but I guess this reflects life since so much grief in the world is carried out without motive or reason . There are a few shots where it's painfully obvious that the vehicles aren't traveling more than about 10 MPH but let's not forget this is a TVM with a limited budget and a debut director . Come to think of it why did Spielberg stop making thrillers like this and JAWS and concentrated on sentimental crap like ET and THE TERMINAL ? DUEL is as thought provoking and as exciting as anything on his resume so I can forgive any flaws this debut has . All except one - The lead actor . I'm sorry but Dennis Weaver is awful , he just doesn't have the range or ability to portray David Mann convincingly . Mann that's his name , think about it he's everyman driving along a desert highway , he finds himself in an alien landscape with no friends and someone who wants to do him serious harm . Both the director and scriptwriter know the character and the actor playing him carries the whole movie but Weaver drags the whole scenario down somewhat especially the paranoid voice over scenes in the diner . Weaver doesn't ruin the movie as such but his performance stops DUEL from the classic many critics claim it is and if it wasn't for the director and the tight script this TVM may well have been instantly forgotten
Show , Don't Tell	A man has apparently committed suicide in he New Mexico desert and beside his body is a bag containing $500 , 000 so local sheriff Ray Dolezal decides to keep the dead man's rendezvous to unravel the mystery A lot of people have complained about WHITE SANDS being implausiable , contrived or over plotted . My complaint is that it's really none of these things but suffers from a fundamental flaw we're warned about at basic screen writing course " Show , don't tell " . For much of the screen time the plot twists and turns well enough but ion the last 15 minutes we have to listen to characters state " I'm not how you think I am , I'm really . . . . " or we listen to characters give away the plot which means the climax is very much spoon fed to the audience which is something of a shame since while not being a truly great thriller WHITE SANDS deserves to be remembered more than it really is . I guess the dislodge heavy last act conspires to make this a very forgettable movie
Thanks Yank	Post Battle Of Britain there were two campaigns of the second world war that were almost exclusively British led and British fought . One was the North African campaign and the other was the Burma campaign , and unlike the inaccurate American flag waver OBJECTIVE BURMA the production team of MERRIL'S MARAUDERS have taken the time and effort to point out the British contribution of the campaign . A British patrol is spotted " A five hundred mile hike and the eighteeneth Japanese imperial army are waiting for them , I'm glad I ain't in that British Army - Amen to that " and later General Stilwell points out " That the British have been fighting alone here for three years " , so a big thank you to Sam Fuller and co for pointing out a few truths that American didn't win the war single handed . If only Spielberg , Hanks and Ambrose had done the same with BAND OF BROTHERS
Hanks Fans Will Love It	I had received a free DVD of BIG via a Sunday newspaper promotion but had put off watching it for a very long time for two reasons1 ) I've never been keen on Tom Hanks who I've found to be one of the most overrated movie stars of the last 15 years 2 ) Comedies ( A genre I don't like at the best of times ) from the 1980s are very shallow with the musical soundtrack being the most important aspect of the production I must say that after seeing BIG I thought it was far better than I was expecting . The lean uncomplicated script gets to the main plot of Josh turning into an adult quickly and the production team resist all temptation to turn the movie into an OTT farce . There are a few things that you'd expect in a Tom Hanks movie ( Even in a breakthrough role like this one ) like mawkish sentiment and Hanks adopting a sad , little boy lost look all the way through the movie but these points aren't really meant as criticismIf you're a Tom Hanks fan you'll love BIG . I'm not a fan of either Hanks or comedy movies so I voted this movie . It's not bad but it's not a classic either
CHATO'S LAND - The Remake	Thank you to all the reviewers who came on to point out the truth behind the story . Whenever you watch a film " Based on a true story " everyone is under the impression that the primary word is " True " but it's not it's " Based " and watching DEATH HUNT I knew I had to take this " based on a true story " not so much with a pinch of salt but with a whole packet . Here we see poor old Bronsan getting picked upon by some cowboys and law enforcement agents so he goes on the run pursued by a posse who seem to spend more time trying to kill each other than their fugitive pray . The film itself is entertaining enough but seeing as there's bits that defy reality like the siege at the cabin and the friendly fire incident I do wish the producers hadn't claimed this was a true story
Over Plotted But Strangely Entertaining	A USMC officer finds himself standing trial for the murder of civilians in Central America several years ago and his lawyer wife defends him . That's the plot of HIGH CRIMES a legal thriller that's a bit like John Grisham meets RULES OF ENGAGEMENT plus A FEW GOOD MEN . Hardly original but there's enough there to make a story . But then we have things like conspiracy agitprop and sibling conflict thrown into the mix along with a possible traitor in the legal team , not to mention lots of sentimental moments that feel that they belong in a chick flick TVM " What about alien invasions Theo ? Surely there must be an alien invasion there too somewhere ? " I also was thinking perhaps the producers had missed out that plot because there's times when watching this movie that I thought someone was playing " Movie Bingo " where the audience have to spot a movie reference . I'm certain during the Latin American scenes we were going to see a big Austrian appear and make wise cracks about a giant alien killing his men . As the audience are reminded of so many movies I too was puzzled why PREDATOR didn't get a mention As you can guess HIGH CRIMES suffers from unoriginality and an obsession with putting in too many ideas into the screenplay . Take Charlie Grimes for example . You'd think since he's played by Morgan Freeman that the actor would be able to flash out the role if he's two dimensional but no Charlie has all these quirks like he wears an earring and he drives a motorbike and worst of all he's a former alkie who has a scene where he has to get drunk in order to further the plotDespite pointing all this out to you I can't condemn HIGH CRIMES as being bad entertainment . I'm certainly not saying it's a good movie because it is rather ridiculous but I was entertained , probably because there's never a dull moment
Contains Too Many Elements Tobe a Total Success	I was really looking forward to seeing BACKDRAFT when it was released . I'd actually spent a couple of days training with the fire brigade up in Aberdeen as part of my North sea survival certificate ( To work off shore on the rigs you must pass the course ) and had an inkling as to the courage and dangers of fire fighting and this movie is an unrepentant tribute to firemen . as for the trailers I'd seen it looked like an exciting film and the cast alone was a good enough reason to track it down . Come on you've got Deniro and Sutherland in the same movie along with established talent like Russell and Glenn and a few other nearly stars in Baldwin , De Mornay and Leigh but after seeing it I felt disappointed and it becomes increasingly disappointing the more often you see it one problem is the rather clichéd directing by Ron Howard . Look at the large number of scenes that are filmed in slow motion which would later become parodied in commercials . Interestingly enough this type of visual style has been copied to a fault by Michael Bay who is universally regarded as being the worst A list director in Hollywood over the last few years . You also can't help noticing that despite there being no smoke without fire , that fire with no smoke often makes an appearance But it's the script that's the main problem with umpteen elements and subplots brought into play . We have a double subplot with Brian McCaffrey who is having stress put on his marriage by his job while also coming into conflict with his brother which gives the film a very soap operish feel and it's often unbearably sentimental . We also have a mystery style plot involving an arsonist . Who's starting these fires and why ? Obviously this is important to the plot but when you've seen BACKDRAFT you find out who is behind it and why therefore there's little in the movie to hold your attention for repeated viewings
Cameron Vs Bigelow	! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! I can imagine Kathryn Bigelow and James Cameron marching into the excutive offices with a movie idea . One of them pitches an ideas driven movie about virtual reality while the other pitches an old fashioned character driven thriller about a couple of corrupt cops wanting to get hands on evidence that will implicate them in a crime . The studio exec stratches his chin , can't decide what movie he wants then has a sudden brain wave of merging the two plots into the same movie . That might have happened , it might not have happened but watching STRANGE DAYS I had the gut instinct that somewhere along the line someone had engineered the two above plots into the one movie . All through the running time I felt there were two screenplays trying to escape . Needless to say STRANGE DAYS starts to collapse under the weight of its ideas . There's also several more unnecessary sub plots such as racial politics , rising crime levels and the mechanics of the music biz which by the end don't feel like they really belonged in this movie . Not only that they also add to an overlong running timeI awarded STRANGE DAYS . What stopped me from awarding it lower marks is the amount of kinetic energy director Bigelow has infused into the film , it's by no means an unwatchable thriller despite its flaws and with a cast featuring Fiennes , Basset , Lewis , Sizemore , D'Onfrio and Fitchner at least there's some well known character actors on display . Saome complained at the time that Cameron should have directed the movie instead of Bigelow , but there's not much wrong with the directing unlike the script which was written by CameronHow's this for a VR plot . A corrupt state frames a heroic and noble subversive by implanting memories of sexual abuse into the minds of children thereby framing the hero and jailing him as a child molestor . A deeply disturbing and adult premise for a sci-fi drama , and one that had been done before in the opening episode of BLAKE'S 7 . So you see the rather weak premise of STRANGE DAYS in comparison ?
The Memory Cheats	The late John Nathan Turner , the most controversial producer of DOCTOR WHO came up with the expression " The memory cheats " . What he meant by that is memory can play tricks on you , a fondly remembered DOCTOR WHO story with the production values of LORD OF THE RINGS ( Or so it seemed at the time ) can be severely disappointing when you re-watch after a gap of 20 years . A battle scene of The Brigadier leading his men against an alien invasion might have seemed like the 1973 eqivulent of BLACK HAWK DOWN but less so when watched 30 years later . I do disagree with what JNT said about the memory cheating but not totally Unfortunately when watching THEATRE OF BLOOD after a gap of many , many years my memory has cheated more than slightly . I remember enjoying this movie one helluva lot but couldn't remember why and after seeing it again tonight I was slightly puzzled why I had so many loving memories about it . Okay it's not a bad movie but it's not a great one either . Check out this sample of dialogue : " Are you saying someone in the theatre is trying to kill us ? " " I would say that's a distinct possiblity " What is it about the above ? Is the dialogue written in a flat manner or are the actors giving a flat performance ? It should also be pointed out that the fatal punishments inflicted upon the critics were someting I once remembered as being grotesque and funny but now seem rather silly especially when you stop to consider the plot holes involved such as how did Lionheart and his posse manage to hire a hair salon and TV van ? I also find it difficult to believe that no one guessed the identity of the hippy geezer with the moustache . Even if I had never seen this movie before I would have known who was Lionheart's right hand man , it's so obvious it's laughableTo be fair this isn't a movie that takes itself seriously and is all the better for being devoid of the post modernist humour of SCREAM and JAY AND SILENT BOB STRIKE BACK ( Did you know the most popular plot for a Hollywood horror movie nowadays involves internet film critics getting murdered ? It's true you know ) and Vincent Price is very well cast as the mincing thespian luvvie who is hell bent on revenge and the camp hairdresser called " Butch " did make me smile . Oh and I did love the way policeman are portrayed as being both useless and stupid . I actually thought those bits were taken from a documentary Not as good as I remembered , but I thought it was a masterpiece when I saw it as a child and nothing is that good in the cold light of adulthood so I give THEATRE OF BLOOD in 2004
Probably Burton's Best Movie	This opens with a great hook , maybe not as great as some of the very best hooks seen in DOCTOR WHO and THE X-FILES but still very effective as to pulling the audience into the story . The screenwriters have also written a very well paced script that gives a background story featuring a German mercenary during the American revolutionary war . Yes it's a good script well directed by Tim Burton who has resisted the temptation to cover the movie in his own bizarre signature , okay he has included a couple of unnecessary ( Probably solely made to give his girl friend at the time Lisa Marie a part ) dream sequences , but there's not much else that had me think " Oh my god a Tim Burton film , I really must do something more interesting like watch paint dry " as can be the case with his movies . Yes it's stylized but not to point where it becomes unbearable and I doubt if Burton will ever make a film this good againI mentioned the script and direction but perhaps the best aspect of the movie is the cast . How many movies set in late 18th century North America have characters with North American accents ? That's right - Far too many so it's nice to know someone had the common sense to realise that American people of that period spoke with a sort of bastardised Anglo accent and therefore it's logical that a bunch of British character actors were cast with the American actors adopting none American sounding accents . Johnny Depp so awful accent wise in FROM HELL has no problem with his voice here and the more I see of him the more I think that he's not taken seriously by a large amount of critics is simply down to the fact he's just too damned good looking . Depp will one day be remembered as one of the finest actors of his generationSo a good film . Maybe not a classic but it's well written , well acted and well directed . Almost certainly the best film by Tim Burton
Not A James Bond Film	In many ways the James Bond franchise was the personification of 1960s pop culture , no one had seen anything like it before in the movie industry and everyone in the industry tried to emulate the style of the Bond movies . Looking back on these Bond clones they're laughably dated and even embarrasing and I bet the producers of THE IPCRESS FILE are glad they conciously made Harry Palmer the opposite of Bond Depending on how you look on it Harry Palmer being the antithesis to 007 is either a good thing or a bad thing . I think it's both which is a strength and weakness for THE IPCRESS FILE , a strength because we're shown that intelligence work is composed of nothing more dynamic than sitting in an office all day looking through files and checking out leads ( Factually correct I imagine ) and a weakness because not many film goers will be interested in watching a spy movie involving an agent who spends much of his time behind a desk and there are maybe a bit too many scenes set in an office . There's another problem with THE IPCRESS FILE and that's once you know who the traitor is the surprise only works once , likewise once Harry escapes from his prison cell we're treated to a shock revelation and I remember thinking this was a very clever plot twist first time I saw it but seeing it again tonight it doesn't carry much of an impact . Unlike a Bond adventure people aren't going to rewatch this movie again and again To be positive though Michael Caine is absolutely superb as Harry Palmer and it's easy to see why he was an icon of British culture in the 1960s , he plays the part in an understated manner and whoever would have thought someone wearing specs and a raincoat could be quite so cool ? And even though the plot twists are a one trick pony they are clever first time you see them
Clichéd , Contrived , But Watchable Enough	Making a film set in an American prison is sort of like making a horror film . When making the latter all you have to do is keep the lighting low , hold the camera close up on a characters face , have scary sounds out of view and there you have something that will effectively scare an audience . With the former all you have to do is put an ordinary joe in a prison , surround him with a bunch of black men and have a guard say " Time for a shower you scum " and you'll have the audience biting their finger nails . SPOILERS Tom Selleck plays the everyman character of Jimmie Rainwood fairly well in this film and you really can empathise with him as he gets mugged by the home boys on his way back from the canteen , and the following scene made me aware of something I hadn't known at the time - American prisons are factionalised along ethnic lines . I know this now after reading up on it and watching documentaries on the American penal system which did slightly spoil the credibility of THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION for me . In no way should THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION and AN INNOCENT MAN be compared of course , but this film is very entertaining and sometimes chilling as the prison clichés come one after the other . The white prisoners despise Jimmie for supposedly showing the white race to be weak while the black prisoners show what's in store for him by letting Jimmie witness a gang rape in the gym , and if you look like Tom Selleck you've got to worry about being popular in prison for all the wrong reasons . My main criticism about AN INNOCENT MAN is the rather weak ending where it's revealed that the cops who fitted up Jimmie are corrupt which lets the screen writers - just like Jimmie - get out of jail . All in all a good prison drama . If you like the HBO prison drama OZ you'll certainly enjoy this . The day after it was shown on the ITV network a TV presenter even referred to it on a news feature dealing with juvenile crime
Perhaps The Characterisation Should Have Been Changed	This TVM features rape as the dramatic centre point but there's a difference in that the victim is a middle aged streetwise cop who is MALE . The crime itself is thankfully understated ( This is a TVM after all ) and the teleplay revolves around the victim Richard Beck struggling to come to terms with his rape as he finds sympathy in short supply Casting Richard Crenna as Beck is a double edged sword . Crenna is best known as playing supporting roles usually as good guys and he gives a very good performance here . Unfortunately he does come over as being far too nice to be entirely convincing as a tough streetwise cop . I couldn't help notice that the script also seems to play up to the nice guy character of Beck . We the audience are supposed to empathise with the victim but if they'd made Beck a rather more hard edged or just plain nasty and cynical character we'd have still felt sorry for him . Considering the theme is one of rape I can't feeling the producers have made a mistake in making Beck too likable . Were they frightened that if we saw Beck give someone a few slaps now and again we would have thought he deserved to be raped in some way ? I can't help thinking everything would have worked a bit better if there had been more in the way of " Rape victims deserved it " from a sneering cynical arrogant pre rape Richard Beck which would have made a few scenes work even better , scenes like where his police chief says " Get out of here punk " when Beck goes to pieces at the ID parade or when Beck desparately explains to his unsympathetic relative that " There was nothing I could do , they had a gun to my head " As it is THE RAPE OF RICHARD BECK is a very good TVM but probably tries a little too hard to make us empathise with the rape victim which isn't necessary because no one deserves to be raped
Garbage But Entertaining Garbage	SPOILERS So if there's a hole in the ozone layer the increased levels of radation will cause animals of all ilks to attack humans . Hmmm . There is actually a hole in the ozone layer but I don't think even Greenpeace are claiming this will cause us to be attacked by fluffy animals and feathered friendsBut DAY OF THE ANIMALS isn't really a film to take seriously and like THE SWARM it's a movie that mixes the disaster movie with the sci-fi genre with the exact same result - It's a bad movie but an entertaining one . The characters are one dimensional clichés , the former sports star , the young couple in love , the Jewish momma and of course the cruel capatilist which in this movie is played by Leslie Nielson in a straight role . Well I said a straight role but Nielson plays it in the same manner as he played his role in THE NAKED GUN trilogy , I mean check out his dialouge : " You're not in Hollywood now Mrs Beverly hills bitch , you'll get what what I give you and I'll take what I want " It goes without saying the death scenes here are like something that was written for THE NAKED GUN , I mean getting eaten by a grizzly bear ? That's like the bad guy in THE NAKED GUN getting attacked by a lion . I also believe it's impossible to impale someone on a walking stick But this is a fun film despite the serious flaws . It's not a film you're going to watch over and over again but it's enjoyable for all the wrong reasons . My only real complaint is the very weak ending of having all the animals dying due to radation sickness thereby saving humanity
A Few Flaws In The Plot But Not A Dead Loss	! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! A woman is raped by three men then five years later one of the rapists runs into the victim and wants to use her as a sex slave I had a problem with this premise right away - What's the chances of a rapist running into his victim like that ? And why use a former victim as a sex slave ? The plot holes continue with a scene where the victim dispatches one of the trio by hitting him over the head with a plastic bottle filled with water . She could have easily have used a kitchen knife but I suppose that would have been less dramatic . I guess all these vigilante / revenge dramas suffer from the plotholes seen in FREEZER ( As it's called on the sci-fi channel ) where the hero stands at a street corner and by an amazing power of coincidence just happens to chance along a scumbag who murdered his wife or raped his daughter see also THE EXTERMINATOR or DEATH WISHFREEZER does have some artistic worth in it's favour , and despite some violence it is a fairly understated film unlike I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE so the two shouldn't be compared . It's just that FREEZER is spoiled slightly by some unlikely occurances while the plot isn't anything more than " Rape victim increases collective morality of mankind by exterminating some scumbags " type story
Mick Jackson's Antithesis to THREADS	I find it's impossible to write a review of a Mick Jackson movie without pointing out that in 1984 he shocked the nation of Britain with his nuclear holocaust docu-drama THREADS . Anyone who saw that on its BBC broadcast will never forget the grim , bleak , depressing and powerful depiction of the end of humanity . Seeing as THREADS was set in the Yorkshire town of Sheffield and filmed on a budget of what appeared to be three dollars fifty cents you'd think he'd use some of his unquestionable talent and VOLCANO's $90 million budget to make a convincing scenario of a city devastated by events beyond its control But Jackson has been there , done that , bought the T-Shirt and written his name in broadcasting history with THREADS and the last thing he wants is to make another grim shocker where millions of city dwellers die . Picking the dumbest script imaginable Jackson has decided he's going to enjoy himself this time and filmed the complete opposite to his nuclear holocaust horror show . Remember in THREADS a myriad of scientific advisers were used ? It goes without saying that no scientific bodies were consulted in the making of VOLCANO . Mind you this may actually work in the context of the story since the characters are so dumb , there is a logic to having a bunch of underground workers being burned to death and no one saying " Hey these men were killed by lava . If we don't evacuate the city millions of people are going to be burned alive by a volcanic eruption " Remember in THREADS after the bomb drops its everyman for himself ? That was probably the most terrifying thing about the docu-drama , of having your throat cut for your meager supplies of food . But not here where the guardians of law and order are not only noble enforcers of justice throughout the movie but also make sure no one is discriminated on the grounds of race and culture . You've also got the feeling that if looters existed in this movie they wouldn't be shot but given a place on a counseling program There's also a similar aspect to the above . In THREADS people are left in the rubble to die since it's not practical to save them . Here the laws of physics have been changed so that if anyone is trapped under a burning truck a passer by can magically lift up the truck with one hand thereby rescuing the injured party . There's even a scene of self sacrifice that has to be seen to be believed , not that the scene was in any way believable to start with The English speaking world are obsessed with their pets and Jackson used this to harrowing effect in THREADS . We saw family pets suffocating in firestorms . If you didn't feel sorry for the human beings killed you'd feel sorry for the poor animals . In VOLCANO we're treated to several scenes of pets in peril being rescued . I'm not sure how many people die on screen but I'm certain not one single type of mammal dies on screen apart from homo sapiens I don't believe for one moment that Mick Jackson's contrast between this and THREADS is coincidental - It's done entirely on purpose with the only connection being a scene of irony . In THREADS this takes the form of characters standing in front of a billboard advertising life insurance while in VOLCANO a character reads a book on writing screenplays . You won't need life insurance when the bomb drops while VOLCANO shows being able to read a book on screenplays doesn't mean you're capable of writing oneUnfortunately VOLCANO flopped at the box office and only made half its production costs in American cinemas which effectively ended Mick Jackson's successful Hollywood career which is shameful . I don't know about you but anyone who can direct two pieces of totally contrasting work is a literal genius in my opinion
Diamonds Are Composed Of Carbon . . . . .	. . . . so it's fitting that a film that centers around the theft of a diamond is a carbon copy of Guy Ritchie's debut hit LOCK STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS . We have the same basic plot featuring much of the same cast playing the same characters directed in the same style as LSATSB . The only real difference is SNATCH has one eye on the American market with the casting of Benicio Del Toro , Dennis Farina and more importantly Brad Pitt . I can't help noticing SNATCH has made a bigger impact on the American reviewers than LSATSB . Perhaps it's more to do with the fact they saw SNATCH first rather than the American cast ? I had high hopes for Ritchie after seeing LSATSB but there's rumours his next film SWEPT AWAY will be released straight to video and there's also rumours Ritchie's next project will be another gangster film . Come on Guy show us you're not a one trick pony , if you need any advice on how to reinvent yourself ask your wife
Flawed Documentary	I first saw THE Nazis : A WARNING FROM HISTORY when it was originally broadcast on BBC 2 in 1997 but wasn't too struck by it . I found it somewhat dry and academic and unlike several documentaries dealing with the holocaust ( Most notably the episode from THE WORLD AT WAR ) it didn't leave much of an impact with me . I also noticed some irritation with the writing , for example the phrase " Ethnic cleansing " is used but this is both an anachronism and a misnomer . Anachronistic because the term wasn't used until 1991-92 during the Balkans conflict and a misnomer because what the Serbs , Croats and Bosniaks ( All sides used the technique and no one had a monopoly as perpetrator or victim ) were doing in the former Yugoslavia was fairly different from what the Nazis did in the occupied territories during the second world war . " Migratory genocide " is a phrase that came from the Soviet-Afghan war and can be said to be the precursor phrase to " Ethnic cleansing " and would be accurate to describe the tactics used in the former Yugoslavia . Nazi tactics from 1939 to 1945 were different and " Literal genocide " would be the most accurate phrase instead of " ethnic cleansing " I did catch the final episode when it was repeated a couple of weeks ago and I have to take issue with some of the points raised . For example Laurence Rees script argues that because the fascist policies of Italy were different from German Nazi racial policies , Nazi Germany couldn't sue for peace the way the Italians had done . This is a bizarre argument because whatever the ideology of Italy was during the second world war they had no real military success , even if Italy was led by someone as bloodthirsty and as racist as Hitler the Italian military had no military success as such , they'd captured very little territory . The Italian military leaders were incompetent and the average soldier in the fascist Italian army is still the butt of jokes today so it's totally irrelevant what the racial policies of Il Duce were . By a bitter irony the most serious critics of Hitler in Germany during were the Prussian aristocracy , the officer class whose generals conquered Western Europe and knocked on the gates of Moscow in 1941 . Without these officers who had little love of Hitler Nazi Germany wouldn't have been able to capture most of Europe and engage on a policy of industrialised murder It's also open to interpretation as to how much fighting spirit the Germans had in the final months of the war was down to the fear of being tried for their crimes against humanity or if it's down to the notorious German mentality . During the great war of 1914-18 Germany wasn't led by a genocidal madman or committed a policy of mass extermination but they still fought on when they realised they weren't going to win the war and the allies on the Western front were shocked by this attitude as the Germans fought until the final seconds before 11am November the 11th 1918 . Even today the Germans in sport are infamous as to their win at all costs mentality and there has always seemed to be something in the German psyche that doesn't allow them to know when they've been beaten Much of the selling point of the series - And the reason why it's so highly regarded by some critics - is that it interviews people who have innocent blood on their hands . One man tells of the time he was told to prosecute a farm worker who made a joke about the Nazis blowing up a bridge . The farm worker was found guilty of treason and hanged in the village square in front of his wife . The prosecutor in question was later found guilty of murder and sentenced to six years imprisonment . But what do we learn from these interviews ? That the Nazis murdered millions of innocent people ? I think we already knew that . That they're sorry for what they did ? That they're not sorry at all ? How can anyone prove or disprove that and what good would come out of it anyway ? Watching THE Nazis : A WARNING FROM HISTORY is a disappointment since it doesn't shed new light on a topic we already know about
Over Produced and Over Rated Sequel	That's typical . Hollywood decides to make lots of money by making a sequel to a classic genre film while ignoring the elements that made the original so brilliant . Take the script for example , THE TERMINATOR had one of the most tightly written scripts I can think of . The sequel is very flabby and mechanical especially in the middle where the fugitives escape to the desert . On top of that it's very poor SF , if ten years have passed since the first film then that also means that ten years have passed in the future but as the original pointed out Cyberdyne systems had been beaten by the humans so how could they send another , superior terminator back to 1994 ? THE TERMINATOR worked so well because it was well made and written , not because it had an army of stuntmen or FX wizards . This seems to have slipped the producers memories . Here we are treated to explosions , stunts , FX , car chases , FX , explosions , helicopter chases , FX , explosions , FX , more explosions and a nuclear war featuring - you've guessed it - FX and explosions . The morphing FX might have been groundbreaking in 1991 but two years later every pop video , advert and TV title sequence had done the effect to death which means in a space of four or five years T2 looked extremely dated . My final gripe is down to the dubious morality of it all . Big Arnie goes around blowing the kneecaps off a whole SWAT team . Is it really necessary for him to do this ? I mean he is a terminator so bullets can't hurt him so why's he dishing out maimings ? I see there's a TERMINATOR 3 in the pipeline . I predict it'll be the biggest flop in years
A Star Is Born	After the death of her mother Iris Kelly embarks on a drunken promiscuous lifestyle to numb the pain There that's the plot ( For want of a better word ) to UNDER THE SKIN a typically British film from the mid 1990s . It's rather low budget and character driven and certainly isn't the type of film that would have appeared at the local multiplex alongside the local Hollywood blockbuster and is perhaps a film Britain produces on too much of a regular basis Despite being inspired by the work of such lauded British directors as Ken Loach and Mike Leigh I can't say that Carine Adler is in the same league ( Though I believe Loach and Leigh are overrated as directors anyway ) and her sometimes art-house type of directing can be somewhat irritating . In many ways you get the feeling Adler is stretching out a story that would have worked much better as a short film What everyone can agree on is that the performance of Samantha Morton is riveting in such a challenging role . Critics are always complaining that actresses aren't given good enough parts but think about it - What's a studio to do ? Cast a stunning looking actress in a commercial film or cast someone who can actually act in a movie like this with little commercial appeal ? Despite the very obvious flaws of UNDER THE SKIN Morton saves the film and has been superb in everything from CRACKER to the video of U2's Electrical Storm . She's almost certainly the most talented actress Britain has produced in years and one hopes to see her become a megastar
Don't Be Ashamed To Say It's Not A Masterpiece	I've heard so much about this " Wonderful , mind blowing masterpiece " . Interestingly enough most of the rave reviews of DONNIE DARKO came via this very website which goes against the grain of other reviewers . Roger Ebert only gave the movie two and a half stars while many other websites dedicated to film reviews claim this movie is confused and overrated . It should also be mentioned that if it's such a great , thought provoking piece of cinema then why did it miss out on so many nominations at the more prestigious film award ceremonies ? And don't say politics , an independent feature like IN THE BEDROOM didn't pick up any Oscars but that didn't stop it being nominated for severalDONNIE DARKO is by no means terrible but it is overrated . Dare I say it's a case of the emperors new clothes ? That is people are somewhat embarrassed upon seeing this film and not understanding it that they feel they must praise it in order to spare their supposed ignorance . Let me ask you this - What genre of film is this ? Everyone will give a slightly different answer I'm sure and if an audience is undecided about the genre then how can they decide what the ending is about ? And there is a quite serious plot hole involved in the story . Donnie sees a demonic rabbit called Frank throughout the movie who tells him at exactly what moment the world will end . Wormholes , time warps etc may actually exist in scientific reality as may the ending but the central plot does not since the whole movie rests on Frank or Donnie being able to see into the future and no scientist will claim there's any scientific basis for fortune telling . So you see it's not really about time travel , it's about mysticism , predestination and other superstitious mumbo jumbo which Richard Kelly is using to fool the audience . In effect this movie is one big cheat and most people have failed to notice this Having said that Richard Kelly does deserve some credit for making a movie that's not about car chases and explosions , this is a movie dealing with teen angst and the dark side of middle American small town values but Kelly has missed an opportunity to make the most of the potential . I know the film was released before the war on terror so there'd be little need to see news broadcasts on the fall out of the original Gulf war but from a pop culture point of view wouldn't this have been better set in the early 1990s when grunge culture was the rage instead of 1988 ? I mean what music best suits this movie's atmosphere ? Echo And The Bunnymen or Nirvana ? In fact if it had have set in the presidential elections of early 1990s this would have coincidentally tied in with what's going on in the world today with Saddam and Iraq getting a mention ! And wouldn't this movie be held up in superstitious awe now ? As it stands it's nowhere as clever as it thinks it is for the reasons outlined . Perhaps Mr Kelly started out on with two movies , one a high concept science fiction thriller and the other a low concept drama about a mentally ill teenager and decided to merge the two with not too successful results . Watching DOnnie Darko this was the gut feeling I got
Made My Eyes Water	I've often thought of the Japanese as being the most sadistic people on Earth . This goes beyond events of the 20th century like the rape of Nangkin , the Burma railway and the Bataan death march , but with that crazy contest show ENDURANCE where volunteers suffer great pain , possible maiming and even the outside chance of death in order to provide viewing figures for the audience back home . There's even a Japanese TV show called RETALIATION which can best be described as " BEADLE'S ABOUT meets GOODFELLAS " . You'll have to see it to believe it But what confirmed my views on the Japanese is this movie which is known in the west as AUDITION . I won't go into the details of the plot but it involves a very graphic torture sequence , so graphic and skin crawling I'm sitting here totally amazed how I managed to sit through it , and the fact that it's very well acted with a completely serious tone in no way exploitive makes it all the more disturbing . Don't say you weren't warned
Low Brow But Amusing	I saw this when I was sixteen years old and perhaps this was the reason I found this sketch based film so very amusing and I can still remember some of the sketches more than half a lifetime ago Man in nudist colony with back to camera hands two female nudists two cups " Coffee ? " " Thank you " " Donuts ? " " Thank you " Guess where the donuts are being kept ? Ha Ha Ha . That sums up the level of humour and my favourite joke involved the Lone Ranger who is bitten by a rattlesnake while urinating ( Guess what part of his anatomy got bitten ? ) so sends Tonto to get medical help . He manages to go into town a find a doctor who tells him that the only way to treat snakebite is " to suck out the poison " so Tonto goes back to find find The Lone Ranger : " What did he say " Tonto sees his friend lying in sheer agony : " He said ssss , he said sss , he said you're going to die Kemosabi " When asked most fans of this movie will admit the bus sketch is their favourite moment where a man sits on a crowded bus reading a porn mag . He unzips his pants and starts to masturbate . Yeah I know it's crude and near the knuckle even if the camera is locked onto a medium shot of the man's face but the joke works because it becomes long running . After the initial scene it cuts away to several more sketched then returns to the man who is more and more excited at pleasuring himself . Cut away to a couple more sketches then back to the bus which has now stopped with most of the passengers running out screaming . Back to a couple of more sketches then back to the bus with an overly excited man then back to the bus where he reaches a climax . In a state of sexual relief he pulls out a packet of ciggies and sticks one in his mouth . Thoughtfully he turns to the one remaining passenger on the bus , a priest and asks " Excuse me father do you mind if I smoke ? " The picture freezes and a caption and voice over is played - " You meet the nicest people on a bus " Hey guys I saw this when I was sixteen . Don't blame if me if CAN DO IT TILL I NEED GLASSES hasn't dated well
Not That Original Or Groundbreaking	Let's not delude ourselves that THE TRUMAN SHOW is all that iconoclastic , prophetic or mind blowing original . In the late 1960s Nigel Kneale wrote a BBC teleplay called THE YEAR OF THE SEX OLYMPICS where very similar ideas are explored so the central plot of a man having his whole life manipulated and broadcast to billions of watching people isn't all that clever if you're familiar with the works of Nigel Kneale I have to confess that while this movie was released in 1998 a couple of years before reality TV saturated the airwaves of western television i had never seen it until a couple of days ago which means my view of this movie especially its plot is prejudiced by a force fed television diet of ordinary people going about their lives so the idea that billions of people watching a man selling insurance comes across as totally ridiculous to me . We've seen BIG BROTHER become a parody of itself ( And has been parodied in the recent series of DOCTOR WHO ) while other similar shows have suffered from slipping ratings and critical backlash . So it seems ridiculous that billions of people across the globe are compelled to watch a mundane real life show for thirty years Not to be totally negative what the producers have done with THE TRUMAN SHOW is structure it correctly where it's revealed from the outset that Truman Burbank is unwittingly living inside a massive TV studio . If the story had been constructed as a M Night Shymalan type mystery where it's revealed to the audience at the end that it's all a television show this would have been a disaster , can you imagine the word of mouth giving away the ending ? Without hammering it home there is a logic to the motives of producing a show like this - Product placement , and Jim Carrey gives a restrained performance and makes Truman a sympathetic character . But if it's mind blowing prophesy and social commentary you desire then I'm afraid THE TRUMAN SHOW is inferior to THE YEAR OF THE SEX OPLYMPICS
I Knew The Ending Before I Saw The Film . . . . .	. . . . but strangely enough that didn't stop me from enjoying it . This even more surprising because I found the start of the film slightly tedious with its shots of city streets and the close ups of characters faces which kept reminding me of the work of Stanley Kubrick , a director I'm not at all keen on . But THE SIXTH SENSE is a haunting film with more than a few spooky atmospheric moments . The more I think about it the more I like it . Here's hoping that the critics are wrong when they say that M Night Shyamalan is a one trick pony
One Of The Better Buddy Movies	Bounty hunter Jack Walsh apprehends bail jumper Jonathan Mardukas and attempts to take him to the other side of America unaware a rival bounty hunter , the mob and the feds are on their tales The above premise is all there is to the plot as Jack and Johnathan escape their rivals and that's to the movies benefit , no one tries too hard to disguise MIDNIGHT RUN as being anything more than aa enjoyable slice of commercial comedy thriller , Jack and Johnathan make a good double act mainly down to the character interaction and on screen performances . DeNiro at the time was a legend due to his roles in very memorable movies like TAXI DRIVER , RAGING BULL and ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA and I can remember thinking at the time why would he want to appear in such a commercial movie , but he's not disappointing in what's essentially a straight role . Such a pity he seems to confine himself to mediocre commercial movies these daysA word of warning though - Never watch a TV version of this movie because it ruins all the jokes , an example being " I've got two words for you - Shut the fk up " which is transmitted on TV as " I've got two words for you - Shut up " which does kill the humour of the lines
Kneel Before The Twisted Humour Of Robert Hammond	There's something so very poetic about this Pyramids Of Mars DVD extra . Sutekh , despite only appearing one DOCTOR WHO story is one of the all time great villains from the show while actor / writer Robert Hammond is one of the most remarkable characters from DOCTOR WHO fandom I do have a problem in discussing this sketch since it's only seven ( 7 ) minutes long and follows on from Sutekh's time as a destroyer of worlds and I'd only give away the best bits thereby spoiling the fun of watching . To give you a favour of OH MUMMY ! go and look up my review of TV OFFAL where I mention " Rob " who is the same Rob Hammond who wrote this funny sketch . Rob also used to edit a fanzine called Auton which really tore into DOCTOR WHO with a incisive and often cruel sense of humour . If you think someone phoning up 10 Downing Street asking how the Prime Minister can negoiate surrendering to Davros when there's no wheelchair access is funny then you'll find OH MUMMY right up your street DOCTOR WHO fandom's a more miserable place without the twisted mind of Robert Hammond
Pretty Good Remake	I was interested in seeing this remake simply to find out if it was as bad as a myriad of critics have suggested it to be . I did love the 1960 version and I am not keen on people remaking my favourite movies , but surely last year's remake of HG Wells romantic fantasy wasn't going to be as bad as painted was it ? Herbert George Wells wrote the source novel so why not call the hero Herbert or George ? It's also a Victorian sounding name so why's the hero got a name that resembles Steve Martin's character in THE MAN WITH TWO BRAINS ? This screenplay just like David Duncan's from the 1960 version lacks an opening hook but it does speculate that even if time travel did exist it would be impossible to change ones destiny , an interesting thought . ScreenwriterJohn Logan adds a post modernist sequence featuring both HG Wells and STAR TREK . I didn't think the humour worked very well but I had to admire his cheek , and since everyone cycles everywhere Logan suggests that in the mid 21st century America has elected a president from the green party which no doubt caused civilisation to collapse . Like most other movies set in the far flung future there are illogical gaps in the screenplay . For example remnants of the present day would still exist . Put it like this : The pyramids of Egypt are a few thousand years old and at the present rate of degeneration they won't exist in a few thousand years but Alexander goes 798 , 000 years into the future and the skeletal remains of 21st century New York still remain ! , but as I said this is a common flaw in time travel stories as is the ridiculous notion that hundreds of thousands of years into the future people will still be able to understand and speak English , so this can be forgiven on the grounds of dramatic license . My only real criticism of the screenplay is that John Logan borrows a bit too much from Duncan's earlier screenplay , otherwise this is a fairly good adaptation on Wells groundbreaking novel . Adding the ubermorlock is an inspired idea that works very wellI'm in two minds who to credit / criticise as director . As you may know Simon Wells left the project days before the project was completed and was replaced by Gore Verbinski so for the purposes of this review I'll refer to the director simply as " The director " , and the director does manage one show stopping moment as the camera pans out from Alexander at the end of the 19th century across an ever evolving landscape eventually stopping on a lunar colony . The most controversial aspect of the film seems to be the casting or more especially the casting of dark skinned actors as the eloi , but I fail to see what the problem is . The eloi live on the surface in bright sunlight so why shouldn't they be dark skinned ? It's also in keeping with the social darwinism of Wells novel . The eloi have evolved due to environment the same way as the ubermorlock has evolved , and social darwinism is totally amoral so there's no right or wrong , or good and bad involved . I do wish people would stop playing the race card . As for the ordinary morlocks they're superbly designed with some great make up involved but the director throws a massive spanner in the works by having them running a hundred miles an hour and being able to jump great heights which suddenly makes them unconvincing which is a great pity , they would have worked better as men dressed up rather than CGI supermen . I did like Jeremy Irons as the scene stealing ubermorlock though . A word of warning for those of you who suffer from photo sensitivity , sadly once again this is a movie that heavily features strobe lighting . I'm not epileptic which is just as well because I wouldn't want to risk a seizure watching THE TIME MACHINE . Sadly there seems to be more and more films being produced with this technique in style used and sadly I've had to keep saying - Stop using strobe lighting in movies . It's totally irresponsible for directors to do this . To sum up the 2002 remake of THE TIME MACHINE was light years away from the debacle I'd been led to expect . It's fairly good in its own right but not as good as George Pal's 1960 version , maybe because it lacks the charm of the former , a charm that movie had in abundance , but this version is still pretty good as remakes go
Too Liberal And Certainly Confused	I don't think much of Sean Penn as an actor , his OTT performance in CASUALTIES OF WAR almost ruined the entire film for me and it wasn't only that film that Penn yanked my chain , but despite this I can't help noticing that he does have some talent behind the camera . He's not flawless of course and his flaws are plain to see in his later film THE PLEDGE but I found THE CROSSING GUARD to be both very moody and very moving with some truly great acting on display . It does suffer from one deep flaw - Penn's script The problem is how the two protagonists are written . Freddy Gales daughter is killed by drunk driver John Booth so guess which character THE CROSSING GUARD portrays in a sympathetic light ? That's right , the one who killed the girl ! I won't go as far to say that Penn has painted Booth as the real victim , but why on earth does he paint Freddy as being such a harsh character ? He's vulgar , always in a drunken state and when it comes to women his attitude is disgusting , in fact he's a dirty old man and there's nothing to prove it's caused by the reaction to the death of his daughter . He is the opposite of Booth who is shown as a different character whose spell in prison has changed him into a profound man able to contribute to society . I see so the man bereaved by the criminal is actually the bad guy ? I'm not sure if this is what Penn is saying because the message is somewhat confused . But despite this serious flaw I'd like to see more films directed by Sean Penn , just as long as the producer keeps him away from a word processor
Impressive Thriller	When this was released in 1997 there was talk of writer / director Johnathan Mostow being the new Spielberg . I have to confess if you want to compare him to anyone then James Cameron would be the best comparison . Cameron is a director who works best with tight scripts and small budgets and ironically Mostow went on to direct TERMINATOR 3 . I think it might be a bad idea to make anymore Terminator movies though . I digress You can understand where the Spielberg comparisons come from . Aged only 26 Mostow wrote and directed this impressive thriller that makes a nod or two to DUEL . Yeah it's not an original movie because there's a few moments that remind you of DELIVERANCE and THE VANISHING but there's only so many times you can take a plot , reshuffle it and come up with something original and " car breaks down in the middle of nowhere " stopped becoming original in the 1970s I think Jeff and Amy Taylor breakdown in the desert and Amy gets a lift to the next town from an affable truck driver who promises he'll drop her off at the nearest diner . Jeff finds the cause of the breakdown fixes it and drives to the diner expecting to meet Amy there . Only thing is she isn't and when meeting the truck driver he denies having met the couple never mind giving her a lift Doesn't that premise sound intriguing ? It sure does and I was thoroughly involved for much of this cinematic journey as the plot takes some sharp and exciting bends . A very impressive road trip . However the climax is slightly disappointing as in much of this genre as the main character - Who the audience can relate to totally - becomes maybe too much of a courageous action hero . It's not a totally unconvincing character arc as in something like 28 DAYS LATER but I didn't think it was an utterly convincing one either and as in many of these stories if you think about the details too much everything collapses . For example why didn't Jeff bother to phone a breakdown service at the start of the movie since it's shown later that he did posses a cell phone ? But I won't nit pick since BREAKDOWN is an involving and entertaining thriller . It's beautifully paced and Kurt Russell is in his element at playing nice guy everyman characters
Could Have Been A Lot Worse	The only real problem Jim Sheridan has with THE BOXER is that he seems to be unable to inject much kinetic energy into the proceedings unlike IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER . Mind I'm not sure if that should be classed as criticism since ITNOTF played hard and loose with facts and was overly sensational , and do I have to remind anyone of the controversy with Sheridan's previous movie effort with Terry George in SOME MOTHER'S SON ? So I guess THE BOXER could have been yet another movie where Britain gets the blame for Ireland's troubles . This is what I liked best about THE BOXER . the IRA terrorists seen here aren't written as the brave and noble freedom fighters of so many Hollywood scripts , here they're shown to be the worst type of gangster - People who feed on their own community . Yeah most of them want peace but that's down to pragmatic reasons not down to any deeper morality . Anyone wanting to see a more objective drama centering around the secterian divide in Northern Ireland should watch this film . It's not a film to watch over and over again but at least it's a mature thoughtful drama on Ulster . It's also well acted by the cast especially Ken Stott
A Strange Combinition Of Good And Bad	I saw this the same night I saw THE HURRICANE a movie that claims to be a bio-pic on Rubin Carter but which is nothing more than total fabrication . PATTON is an entirely different kettle of fish and while not being entirely accurate ( I'll come to that later ) does at least have many accurate points Undoubtedly the best aspect of the movie is George C Scott who is physically almost identical to George Patton . He captures the arrogant mannerisms of the American general very well and few and far between are movies where a performance like this dominates a movie . Ironically this is a case of where an Oscar for best actor was fully deserved and yet the recipient turned down the honour . There's also obviously a lot of thought gone into the screenplay as to where to begin and end the story . Do you start when Patton was a child and find out what motivated him to be a soldier ? Do you start when he fought in the American Expidionary force in France 1917-18 ? Do you finish the story with his death ? I think that writers Francis Ford Coppola and Edmund H North have got the settings right with starting the story with the immediate aftermath of The Kasserine Pass and finishing the story while Patton was still alive . The screenplay itself is somewhat knowingly ironic as Patton spouts " America has never and will never lose a war " while it was becoming obvious in 1970 there was no way the US were going to be victors in Vietnam . It was a well known fact that Patton despised Monty and much of Patton's motives were of beating Montgomery as much as the Germans and this might have led to needless deaths of men under Patton's command . The screenplay while not exactly spelling this out does hint that his dislike of Monty led to Patton's reckless streak and the audience are left to make up their own mind on this issue . It was also well known that Patton wanted to throw back the Soviets from Eastern Europe ( Monty also had a hatred of communism but was far less vocal about it ) and there are conspiracy theories that the car accident that killed Patton wasn't an accident at all . Thankfully the screenwriters and producers have absolutely no time for any conspiracy theories of any kind While being a good movie PATTON fails to be great one simply because niggling little faults creep into the movie like historical inaccuracies . In the aftermath the Germans discuss the battle of Kasserine Pass where " The Americans were led by the British general Anderson " Who was Anderson ? The Americans who were badly defeated at the battle were led by American general Lloyd Fredendall without doubt the worst allied general of the war and it was this that led to Patton being appointed to his post . Rommel is portrayed as having the utmost respect for Patton and his American troops but in reality this wasn't actually the case . Throughout the war Erwin Rommel had contempt for American equipment ( With good reason since German Panther and Tiger tanks were far superior to the American built Shermans and the same applied to preceding equipment ) and servicemen and counted Monty as his arch nemesis not Patton . Also as with most American war movies made round about this time the tank battles fought between Americans and Germans seem to be composed of both sides using American tanks built in the 1950s All in all a bio-pic that while being better than many others isn't flawless but like I said if you want to see how NOT to make a bio-pic watch THE HURRICAN
Not As Bad As Is Made Out	The only problem I can see with this film is that it's very far removed from the horror franchise that started with the original Hammer Dracula in the late 50's , in fact I can't help thinking that it was conceived as a violent thriller that didn't feature Dracula or Van Helsing . That might explain the slightly lame ending . As it stands THE SATANIC RITES OF Dracula does have some effective moments such as the opening escape scene and the plague victim , and there's a very bleak feel to the film through out . If you compare it to the earlier films in the Hammer cycle your enjoyment of this one will be spoiled . So don't compare it
Not All That Far Fetched	BILLON DOLLAR BRAIN features a rabid anti communist meglomaniac in the role of villain General Midwinter and it's up to British agent Harry Palmer to stop his lunatic scheme I wonder how many people at the time realised the irony of rabid right winger Midwinter being portrayed as a looney villain ? In 1967 President Johnson was spending billions of American dollars and tens of thousands of American lives to protect South East Asia from communism while plenty of main stream right wing American politicians like Ronald Reagan thought the Johnson administration weren't going far enough to protect the free world from the red menace . So the over the top rhetoric from Midwinter feels more like biting satire than the rantings of a mad man . It's also good to see a movie making a nod towards the sacrifice of nearly 30 million Soviet citizens lives during the second world war , many of them being murdered by nationalists from puppet regimes created by the Nazis . I think this is undoubtedly the best of the Harry Palmer movies , helped in no small part by Ken Russell's not quite mainstream , not quite art house direction . Caine is in good form as are the rest of the cast , but of course the best performance award goes to Ed Begley as General Midwinter who rants about the evils of communism and preaches the virtues of the free world without pausing to draw breath . BILLION DOLLAR BRAIN also features early appearances from Susan George and Donald Sutherland in blink and you'll miss them roles . Entertaining thriller and an interesting one for not making the commies the bad guys . Compare it to THE GREEN BERETS if you want to know the difference between chalk and cheese
Far Better Than I Expected	Ah yes a Hollywood family film in the same vein as TOY STORY , so expect some highly patronizing , derivative drivel , or rather don't because I found SMALL SOLDIERS to be a far better film than I expected . Much of this was down to the fact that the movie doesn't talk down to its audience and the fact I didn't have to put up with a myriad of scenes featuring bad CGI . Okay fair enough , it's very obvious that's a GI Joe doll trailing along on a bicycle but in the context of the story that's exactly what it's supposed to be . SMALL SOLDIERS also makes witty references to the likes of PATTON and THE TERMINATOR , ( See if you can spot them ) and what a charming creature Archer of the Gorgonites is . Gorgonites ! You've gotta love that name I enjoyed this movie and despite it not being an all time classic I do recommend it as an entertaining family film
It's Whitaker's Movie	Never before has a film in modern history been dominated by a performance from its lead actor . That actor is Forest Whitaker who picked up EVERY best actor award for this film . Whitaker gives an absolutely towering performance and the only other chilling and dominating performance I can think of that comes close to it in recent years is Bruno Ganz as Adolph Hitler in DER UNTERGANG Unfortunately while Whitaker is the most compelling thing about THE LAST KING he's the only compelling thing about the movie . James McAvoy and the rest of the cast aren't too bad but they all play either unsympathetic or totally uninteresting characters which means you find yourself looking at your watch wondering how long you'll be waiting for the next appearance of Field Marshal Idi Amin to sort out those " bad mommas " . None of this helped by the screenplay structure and despite a scene of hideous torture that seems inspired by A MAN CALLED HORSE you get the feeling that the producers didn't know how to end the story
A Film Of Two Halves Which Will Polarise The Audience	I came in to this film knowing all about the hype that surrounded it . " Truly stomach churning . . . I had to walk out of the theater . . . I've never seen anything like it in my life " . It's impossible to view this film for the first time with an open mind . Interestingly enough everyone comments on the violence while there's little written on the fact the story is told in reverse chronological order . Perhaps if IRREVERSIBLE was shot in a conventional way few people would consider it so controversial and brutal and challenging ? I'm sure this would have been the case Imagine for a moment Gasper Noe hadn't copied Christopher Nolan's style with MOMENTO ( And to be honest Nolan hadn't invented this style because " reverse editing storytelling " had been done as far back as the silent era ) and told the story in chronological order . We'd have opened with a metaphysical quote that " Time destroys everything " , ( I'll leave it to you to decide what this means if anything ) This is followed by children playing in the park , Alex reading a book , Alex going home with a pregnancy test kit , Alex finding out she's pregnant . How long would it be before the audience start to ask themselves where all this might be going ? If the story had been constructed this way it would have led to all sorts of problems , not least that there's very little going on plot wise . Adjectives like " nauseating " could also accurately describe the cheesy love triangle making up the bulk of the film . It could be argued that the reverse chronology makes it easier to empathise with Alex's rape because if we'd seen her wearing a mini-dress some people might have thought she deserved it , but I hope this isn't the case . No one deserves that As for the rape itself would it be sacrilege to say I've seen worse ? Certainly I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE is a film that is far more stomach churning when it comes to rape . Unlike that film however IRREVERSIBLE does have a style and a merit to it . Especially during the opening half hour where Markus and Pierre charge in to The Rectum and the audience are shown one of the most remarkable , shocking and disorientating sequences ever seen in recent cinema . Again though you have to ask why do the cops tell Pierre that he's going down for ten years ? Surely the violence was justified to stop Markus from being raped ? Again there's a problem with the plotting because does it seem so credible that Markus and Pierre would have listened to the pimp who claims he'll find The Tapeworm for them if they give him money ? Is there a subtext to this ? Is Noe saying that revenge is more important than justice ? Your guess is as good as mine IRREVERSIBLE is a film you'll never forget . This is down to the opening half hour and has everything to do with style rather than content . When you switch off the DVD the next day and think about it then unfortunately things start to fall apart . It's also a film that will polarise the audience . If you're not sickened by the violence you'll be nauseated by the cheesy romantic aspects of the film or vice versa . All in all the use of reverse chronology is far more of a gimmick than what it was in MEMENTO
A Very Interesting Film Despite A Rather Serious Flaw	A film broadcast at 2am on channel 4 and starring Tim Roth ! I remember the last movie broadcast on channel 4 with Tim Roth in the credits which was THE WAR ZONE , one of the few movies I've regretted watching due to the depressing content and since INVINCIBLE centres around the birth of Nazism I wasn't expecting too many uplifting moments but I certainly recommend Werner Herzog's strange and interesting drama based on a true story ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! In a Polish town the circus arrives and blacksmith's son Zishe Brietbart beats the strongman in a competition and impressed with Zishe's physical strength a theater agent signs him up where he performs at Berlin's Cabaret Of The Occult which is owned by Danish nobleman Hanussen . Since it's 1932 the Nazis are on the rise so Hanussen reinvents Zishe as " Siegfried " and shows his predominantly Nazi audience the physical strength of this Ayran . Hanussen shows this as proof of Ayran superiority while at the same time impressing his audience with his own occult powers . However despite his own naked opportunist agenda Hanussen has a secret of his own that he doesn't want known to his audience . . . Some people may claim how ridiculously ironic it is having a Jew pretending to be an Ayran strongman in order to put forward a racist agenda but this I feel is the whole point of the story which one has a feeling has been turned into a fable rather than a story that has stuck to rigid facts . Certainly the most bitter irony about the rise of Nazism is that one of the architects of Nazi philosophy Alfred Rosenberg had a Jewish name while Hitler , Heydrich and Eichmann were of Jewish descent themselves ( Though technically not Jews - According to tradition if your mother wasn't a Jew neither are you ) so people with an irony deficency will have a problem understanding this beautiful and intelligent film And I don't apologise for thinking this is a beautiful and intelligent film , it might not have the reputation of Herzog's other films like the painfully overrated FITZCARRALDO but it's one I can certainly recommend for a mainstream audience . However there is one serious flaw that stands out and that is the casting of Jouko Ahola as Zishe . You do get the gut instinct that Herzog wanted to cast a certain Austrian body builder turned politician in the lead role and it's impossible to watch Ahola without being reminded of Big Arnie except Ahola is an even more wooden actor and his lack of thespian skills is made even more obvious when he's playing opposite Tim Roth is one of his most impressive roles which slightly damages the movie
One Of The Most Bizarre Movies To Be Made By An American Studio	I recall sometime in the late 1970s a film called SOLDIER BLUE being broadcast on ITV . It was on past my bedtime so unfortunately I never saw it but I distinctly remember my parents discussing it the next day and how shaken they were by the amount of violence the movie used in showing a massacre against the Indians at the end . As years passed I have heard how this movie has become a cult classic and how it was an allegory on American involvement in South East Asia and being something of a fan of this type of movie I looked forward to seeing it . Unfortunately it's not a film that appears on the TV schedules and when the BBC broadcast it tonight I think this was the first time it'd been broadcast since my parents saw it nearly 30 years ago I must confess while I was watching it I was in something of a state of shock , not so much because of the violence ( I'll come to that in a moment ) but because it's a truly bizarre movie . You can just imagine Joseph Levine scratching his chin while reading several scripts on his desk featuring different genres and deciding that he's going to make a movie featuring bits and pieces from all of them so we have 1 ) A love story between two protagonists where opposites attract 2 ) A couple hiking in the great outdoors being kidnapped by a sadistic thug and having to run for their lives 3 ) A standard western that borrows ideas from THE SEARCHERS 4 ) An ( Anti ) Vietnam war movie that's the perfect antidote to THE GREEN BERETS All of these are incorporated into SOLDIER BLUE and I'm afraid that it doesn't really work . Can you believe that if this was an unsolicited script arriving on someone's desk that it would be produced ? It's like watching clips from several movies edited together , edited together very well I might add , but still edited from other movies . Thus we see a calvary platoon massacred early into the film while the next hour is devoted to two people wandering around the wilderness not liking one another but finding themselves falling in love . These scenes are like watching a star vehicle for Rock Hudson and Doris Day if you ignore the leftist / rightist diatribes As for the violence , it's probably as violent as the stuff Peckinpah was doing at the time with slow motion death scenes where people spurt blood , a cinematic violence that hasn't dated very well in the 21st Century since it appears clichéd . There is one slight difference and that is director Ralph Nelson doesn't shy away from showing innocent children getting shot down , even in 2005 the massacre scene still carries an impact and the impact would have been bigger still if the Indians hadn't been shown massacring a Calvary unit earlier , but I guess when discussing what was happening in ' Nam the movie wants to have its cake and eat it It's impossible not to discuss SOLDIER BLUE without mentioning Candice Bergen as Cresta . Men of a certain age have confessed how their ideal woman would be Bergen in this movie and I can certainly see their point , it's not just Bergin's physical presence but the written character too . Obviously Cresta is a total anachronism but she's a very memorable strong woman , a sort of hippy chick fused with Emma Peel and along with the Indian massacre Cresta is what people remember most about the movie . Peter Strauss as Honus seems a bit too old for the role and the part should have gone to a younger actor while Donald Pleasence seems to have wandered in from another movie This is a movie that I have wanted to see since I heard about it many years ago and after seeing SOLDIER BLUE I still don't know what to make of it . It's certainly a very strange film that's heavy handed and got perhaps too much to say for itself . It's like watching a Walt Disney movie spliced with an exploitation movie , in short it's one of the most bizarre movies a Hollywood studio has produced and that alone makes it worth watching
Somewhat Uneven Thriller	What I remember most about GANGSTER NO 1 on its initial release was the critics mentioning the amount of violence shown ( Channel 4 also pointed out the " disturbing " content before the broadcast last night ) but I don't really see what the problem is . I agree it's a violent picture but at least the subject matter is treated very seriously with the deadly violence seen from the victim's point of view for a change . The people who have a problem with this movie are the same people who have a problem with porn movies , honestly you'd think they'd never seen nine people in love before ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! If I have a problem with GANGSTER NO 1 it's to do with the script , frankly it's very dumb in places like Freddy Mays being convicted of the murder of Lenny Taylor . If Mays is lying in hospital in a critical condition why would he be a suspect ? The forensics would prove what time he died making it impossible for Mays to be a suspect . And the bare bones of the story seems to steal a massive amount from ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA though the screenplay does remain somewhat underdeveloped As director Paul McGuigan can also be accussed of being heavily influenced by Scorsese but that can be forgiven as the direction is the best thing about the movie with nice little flourishes like the reflection of a man falling from a high rise block of flats in a car windscreen , and there's the aforementioned scene of a torture victim . If I have a problem with any of the technical aspects it's the sound mix with background noise drowning out the dialogue in some scenes , but there's a good cast on show here with Paul Bettany especially good But GANGSTER NO 1 is a fairly good - Though uneven - British thriller that owes very little if anything to Guy Ritchie . It's such a pity the story wasn't a little bit stronger and that the lily livered critics didn't state the movie's strong points
You Can Read Between The Lines	I referenced CROSSFIRE at the IMDb before watching it on television a couple of days ago and what I found very interesting is that the original source novel featured the murder victim being a homosexual and not a Jew . This is very interesting not to mention helpful because it makes the story much easier to understand if you look upon murder victim Joseph Samuels as being homosexual rather than Jewish . For example if anti - semitism is prevalent would Joseph Samuels with his obviously Jewish sounding name invite strangers back to his flat ? But I guess RKO or any other Hollywood studio would be closed down and its studio heads thrown in prison if they'd have even thought of making a movie dealing with a homophobic murder and the movie has developed the anti-semitism angle with lines of dialogue like " Some of them are named Samuels and some of them have funnier sounding names " . Unfortunately am I seeing some anti British rhetoric here because of the mandate in Palestine by having the villain called Montgomery ? Am I reading between the lines too much ? Regardless of this we can all agree that this is a very well acted piece of film noir with fine performances from Robert Young as Captain Finlay , George Cooper as Cpl Arthur Mitchell and a disconcertingly young Robert Mitchum as the idealistic Peter Keeley , but they're all over shadowed by Robert Ryan as Montgomery a role for which Ryan was Oscar nominated and it's this performance you'll remember the movie for long after the credits have rolled .
Dated But Not Unimpressive	Comparisons between Michael Mann's MANHUNTER and the other films that followed the Hannibal Lectar franchise are inevitable but unnecessary . Stylistically and context wise MANHUNTER is an entirely different movie from its successors which makes it difficult to say whether it's a better or worse film As a stand alone movie it just about works . The audience needs no pre knowledge of Dr Hannibal Lector because he's very much a peripheral character so much so that if you cut him out of the story no plot changes would be needed at all , in other words Hannibal is a disposable character and to be honest when I first saw this movie in 1990 I found Cox's performance very distracting as I tried to figure out where in the British Isles the accent was from ! Perhaps if Dr Lector didn't appear this film would be entirely forgotten today ? It certainly has little to do with Hannibal the cannibal and concentrates on FBI specialist Will Graham tracking down a serial killer dubbed " The Tooth Fairy " Michael Mann directs in a minimalist 80s style which I'm afraid appears somewhat dated viewed today . Mann was well known at the time as the creator of Miami VICE and like the 80s cop show the synthesiser soundtrack coupled with non original rock tracks often seems the most important aspect . In the mid 1980s I was a teenager and used to love movies and TV shows that had pop music playing over the narrative but like I said this type of directorial flourish quickly become dated . Though to be fair to Mann he does manage to bring a depressing and bleak atmosphere to the movie without ever having to resort to blood and gore and gimmicks unlike Ridley Scott did with HANNIBAL If you like murder mysteries or films that have a typically mid 1980s feel then I can certainly recommend MANHUNTER
Excellent Low Budget Thriller	ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 is a wonderful example of what can be achieved with a talented director on a very low budget . My only criticisms are the plothole of having the gangs hiding so they aren't discovered by police patrol cars ( I thought that's what the gangs would have wanted - a toe to toe war with " the pigs " ) , the ending which is something of an anti-climax but knowing the budget this is understandable . John Carpenters best film and his best score Dum dum dum du du dum , dum dah dah du du dum
It's Let Down By The Acting Style	I've just returned from the user comments page on DOCTOR WHO ( 2005 ) which is a comparable page with this one on the film adaptation of Heller's CATCH 22 . Some people detest everything about the new version of the sci-fi show while some people can forgive the flaws since it's not meant to be a carbon copy clone of the 1963-89 show . And so it's the same with this film version . Some people obviously detest this Hollywood version of the anti war black comedy while some people can forgive the flaws I for one have never read the acclaimed novel so I'm only judging the film on its own merits ( Interesting though in no way a shock to realise that the movie's most vocal critics are fans of the book ) but the one thing that is unlikable about the celluloid version of CATCH 22 is the acting style - It's overblown and cartoonish , comical and surreal . In fact it's like watching a live version cartoon a sort of WAIT TILL YOUR FATHER GETS HOME or THE SIMPSONS with battle scenes . Notice too that I didn't say " acting " but " acting style " I'm not really blaming the cast but the director Mike Nichols for this . The whole movie would have worked better if the comic characters had been played more straight while the serious characters had played up to the comic elements a bit more . As it is only Art Garfunkel's performance as Captain Nately seems suited to his character as is to a slightly lesser degree Jon Voight's Minderbender . Unfortunately everyone else in the cast seem confused as to how to approach their characters Despite this flaw I can certainly understand where film got its reputation from . This is unrepentant cynicism about war . Imagine you'd departed as a draftee to Vietnam in 1969 with the last war film you'd seen at the cinema being THE GREEN BERETS and the next war movie you'd seen at the cinema being CATCH 22 . How the world in general and cinema in particular must have changed to the individual . As I previously said the directing is very heavy handed but in amongst there are very memorable scenes amongst the comic strip performances like Minderbender explaining a scam to his CO as a plane lies exploding on the runway or the final shocking scene involving Snowdon . Scenes like this stop the movie from being the disaster some people report it as . But the acting style stops it from also being the masterpiece some people claim it is
More Enjoyable Than That Other Similar Time Travelling Film	It seems that word of mouth has affected peoples ' enjoyment of THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT with many comments reflecting bitter disappointment . In many ways these feelings sum up what happened when I saw DONNIE DARKO , a similar type of movie featuring teen angst and time travel . The main difference though was that I'd heard all the lavishing praise thrown at DARKO while I'd had no knowledge of THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT until the credits started on Channel 4 last night It's not a masterpiece of course but many of the complaints can be dismissed that it's utterly depressing featuring scenes of animal cruelty , sex , violence etc but would you have preferred a film with Michael J Fox going back to 1950s High School ? Much of the film works simply because protagonist Evan finds himself stuck between a rock and a hard place and despite the criticisms of casting Ashton Kutcher by some people you really can believe that a good looking pretty boy would find them self popular in prison for the wrong reasons The screenplay by Gruber and Bress does raise an interesting point that destiny will always win out in changing the past . You might be able to stop a bad thing happening to someone but you'll never stop something else terrible happening to you or someone close to you by changing a big bad event . The plot might be full of mystic mumbo jumbo but it's a film that is much easier to follow than DONNIE DARKO which makes it a superior film
Is That Real Sex ?	LA TAREA is filmed in real time in a single room and features a total cast of two actors . This is not an epic film by any means . In fact I wouldn't have actually remembered its broadcast on Channel 4 if it hadn't been for the fact that the two characters Marcelo and Virginia indulge in a sex session , but what a sex session it is ! It's not the type of graphic sex you'd see in a hard core porn film but I don't believe for a moment the actor and actress are NOT really having sex . Maybe that's the point of the film , the way the scene is shot is rather subtle and it's left to the audience to make up their own minds , but I don't think anyone is that good an actor during a love scene
Better Than I Expected	As THIEF started I thought I'd be watching some sort of shallow art house debacle debut from Michael Mann . The first ten minutes only contains one line of dialogue with a terrible and annoying soundtrack from Tangerine Dream very similar to Mann's later horror flick THE KEEP . A ridiculous scene follows this musical intro when Frank , the thief of the title shows a fence the diamonds he stole - In a crowded cafe ! It was at this point I thought I was going to be getting a feature length episode of MIAMI VICE , but things started to improve very quickly . James Caan as Frank gives one of the best performances of his career in this movie , watch the scene where he describes his prison experiences and the scene in the adoption agency , an excellent performance , oh and the rest of the cast give a good showing too in this violent , gritty , foul mouthed thriller . My only criticism is that the ending is very similar to the ones Mann often used in MIAMI VICE and like the start of the movie the TD soundtrack is very intrusive at this point
Not That Bad but It's Not A Classic Scorsese Picture	" What did you think of Gangs Of New York ? " I asked my father who is also a big Scorsese fan . " I thought it was a load of " ££$ % ^ ^ $ " £ £$ % " he replied " The actors looked like they were all going to burst out singing " I could see where he was coming from although I didn't disagree with him 100 % . GANGS OF NEW YORK had some really extreme opinions from its audience , a point reflected in the comments thrown at it on this site . I didn't think it was as bad as my dad made out but like I said I could seewhere he was coming from My major problem with the movie is the screenplay . the opening shot sees Bill " The Butcher " Cutting kill Priest Vallon in front of his son who runs away swearing revenge for his dead father . From that point onwards we know that the story will end years later with a confrontation between the two protagonists so there's no more dramatic twists for the story to take . Actually this in itself isn't too bad but what spoils the story is the way it's held up with the character interaction between Amsterdamn and Jenny Everdeane . Scorsese doesn't do romantic interlude very well and this movie proves it . In amongst this diversion there's something of a plot hole since Bill takes the young Amsterdamn under his wing even though he knows who he is . If you bumped off someones father in a street fight would you adopt their kids ? I didn't think so This could have been an absolutely brilliant script and it is very good in places where we see how the gangs are structured , their ethnic mix and their political affiliations - Some are protestant with members who were born in America , some are catholic with many members born in Ireland , all are anglophobe and they all hate each other . We also see one of the most cynical episodes in American history where immigrants getting off ships at New York are immediately conscripted into the Union army unless they pay 300 dollars which eventually leads to the draft riots . When the movie concentrates on these parts of the plot it's a great film but becomes heavily bogged down by the character subplots If Scorsese had directed this 20 years ago with a fraction of the budget he had here this could have been his masterwork but he seems to have overawed by riches . Everything is just a bit too grandiose and operatic to be entirely convincing . Charles Dickens had visited the five points and is recorded as saying it was the worst place on Earth . Scorsese makes the streets a little too clean , a little too Hollywood grunge , a little too glamorous in spite of everything . Leonardo Dicaprio is a very underrated actor held back by his startling good looks but he's wrong as Amsterdamn and wasn't right for the part which should have gone to an unknown . Cameron Diaz is totally unconvincing as Jenny and Scorsese could have easily given the part to a real life NY hooker while Daniel Day Lewis gives a powerhouse performance as Bill Cutting , however the role is slightly overplayed especially compared to Lewis's other work Indeed everyone involved in GANGS OF NEW YORK in whatever capacity has done far better in other movies and at the end of the day this is a very unsatisfying flawed picture which received more nominations than it did prizes at award ceremonies , and I'm somewhat happy about that because this movie isn't a crowning achievement for anyone , especially Martin Scorsese or Daniel Day Lewis who are capable of better things Seven out of Ten
Superb Animation	Not unlike THE PRINCE AND THE PAUPER this is the story of a baby prince who is kidnapped by the thief in the night and ends up being adopted by a pig . If the plot sounds kind of silly don't worry because it's an animated claymation cartoon . If it was live action the whole thing would of course be ridiculous but you can get away with bizarre frivolity in cartoons With all these type of animated short stories the plotting and the story takes second place to the animation and when I say Peter Lord is the director of CHICKEN RUN that's all you need to know about the affectionate , effective type of claymation animation seen here . The story is told with a slit scan technique which keeps everything tightly paced and there's little dialogue which will help it in finding an international market . It was also Oscar nominated . Deservedly so
Cultural Relativism	THE NAKED PREY is very similar in many ways to Cornel Wilde's later movie NO BLADE OF GRASS in that it deals with the theme of survival , is rather violent and features real life stock footage mixed in with the location footage , and while neither film is all that well directed they both have very thought provoking plots of which THE NAKED PREY is more subtle . Yeah NO BLADE OF GRASS is shockingly thought provoking but that's entirely down to the John Christopher source novel rather than the adapted screenplay or Cornel Wilde's sledge hammer direction telling us what a terrible thing ( yawn ) pollution isThe premise of THE NAKED PREY is white man getting chased through African bush by black natives but the movie never becomes racist or reactionary and even more refreshingly is devoid of any patronising liberal right on attitudes . Wilde's hero called simply " The Man " is an innocent victim who happened to have the misfortune of being a safari guide to a bunch of philistines , but hey everyone has to make a living . The natives who while not exactly being painted in the most sympathetic light do have a motive for their amoral stance - One of moral relativism . It should also be pointed out that the natives do weep tears for their dead kinsmen and are capable of respect too . The screenplay never talks down to its audience by having tribal chiefs suddenly speak pidgen English when it suits the narrative nor are we shown subtitles but it's easy to tell what's going on . The fact that Clint Johnston's and Don Peters screenplay was Oscar nominated says a lot about its quality A good film mainly down to the fact that it treats the audience with some respect and doesn't degenerate into a slightly obvious MCGUYVER type plot . Having said that I did mention earlier that it's not all that well directed with obvious stock footage used . It's also obvious in the early chase scenes that Wilde's character is wearing flesh coloured briefs when he's supposed to be naked and I wished I could have seen a few more of those cruel and inventive executions which probably says a lot about me . Maybe some day we will see a remake set in the Brazilian rain forest with a guide escorting a bunch of environmentalist do gooders stomping through the jungle telling indiginous tribes how to live their lives and being confused as to why the natives want to impale them on a pole . Everything is down to respect
The Lack Of Embellishment Disappoints	You'd need a heart of stone not to be touched by Jackson's LORD OF THE RINGS , it is amongst the great masterworks of cinema and is a trilogy I love . However for some reason I failed to catch this at the cinema possibly down to my body needing frequent infusions of nicotine and caffeine , something that makes a three hour movie an ordeal at the best of times . I noticed this version made the IMDb top 250 movies but then slipped out again after a couple of weeks . I also remember at the time the number of well regarded film critics giving KING KONG something of a lukewarm response . Unlike LORD OF THE RINGS this movie became quickly forgotten by the public so much so that it wasn't until tonight when it was broadcast on network TV that I remembered it had existed in the first place ! If i'd spent £7 and three hours without nicotine and caffeine I'd have certainly given this remake of KING KONG a six . It's by no means a terrible film but does often feel like just another Hollywood blockbuster , not something you can say about LOTR . There's two problems with the movie One : There's an overabundance of visual effects . LOTR had this too but there was also lots of location filming in the beautiful New Zealand wilderness not to mention hundreds of extras dressed up as orcs and humans . Here however you are aware that much of Skull Island appears to be created on a Hollywood stage rather than location filming . Crucify me if you want but the scene with the dinosaur stampede had me stifling a loud yawn while looking at my watch . Two : The narrative follows the same structure as the original though it seems painfully drawn out . The unforgivable thing about this is when the remake goes its own way such as the scene at the bottom of the ravine where the landing party are attacked by giant insects the film becomes tense , frightening and reminds the audience why they pay money to watch movies at the cinema . Why didn't Jackson do a re imagining of a classic movie instead of a remake ? As said it's not a bad movie and is a infinitely better than the remake from 1976 but the irritating thing is Jackson shows us the brilliance he is capable of but never follows through . Perhaps he has too much reverence for the original ? What isn't in doubt is the director's god given talent and it's disappointing to watch a movie by him which is merely only very good in short parts
Affectionate Homage To 50s B Movies	Watching TREMORS is like watching one of those sci-fi / horror B movies from the 1950s , specifically one you enjoyed as a child and still watch as an adult . In short TREMORS is a very likable movie Set in the of Perfection in the isolated desert of Neveda the story is carried by two good ole ' American boys Valentine Mckee and Earl Bassett who stumble across the body of an associate who has strangely died of dehydration and they soon realise that instead of taking care of the mystery , the mystery will soon be taking care of them and the other inhabitants of Perfection I notice this has been described as " a comedy horror " or " a horror spoof " but this is totally misleading because TREMORS is an affectionate tribute to the sci-fi movies of the 1950s and where else except a sci-fi 50s movie would monsters mutated by atomic radiation be stalking humans ? This makes the plot somewhat derivative and it also owes a lot to JAWS and in many ways the working title of LAND SHARKS would be more accurate but if you're after 90 minutes of affable entertainment more than succeeds in biting the target
Inaccurate But Still A Good Movie	Reputation is a strange thing . Take John Dillinger for example . He was public enemy number one during the fledgling FBI's war against organized crime gangs . He was a nasty piece of work who committed the murder of a Chicago policeman called O'Malley but that why he wasn't public enemy number one , he was public enemy number one because he robbed banks , he was a prolific bank robber during an era when banks repossessed homes and businesses at the merest hint of not paying back loans , many hard working honest American citizens found themselves destitute because of the greed of banks in depression hit America . To many people bank robbers at this time were viewed as Robin Hood types ( Even though they weren't too keen on giving to the poor ) and there does seem to be some very slight injustice in John Dillinger being public enemy number one when he was far from being the worst criminal in America . Hell he wasn't even the worst member of the Dillinger gang John Milius bio pic of DILLINGER is fairly inaccurate , for example Melvin Purvis wasn't as portrayed here middle aged but a fairly young man , but Milius is a first rate director even though he'll always be remembered for writing the screenplay to APOCALYPSE NOW . Despite not having a massive budget his shoot out scenes are bloody and brutal and reminded me of the recent Ridley Scott bloodfest BLACK HAWK DOWN . He also uses a very striking visual style for exposition featuring a montage of newsreel , stock footage , still photos and newspaper headlines . Milius also casts well by hiring Ben Johnson ( Despite being too old for the role ) , Warren Oates , Harry Dean Stanton , Geoffry Lewis and Richard Dreyfuss , all fine character actors in a fine - though rather violent - gangster film
Good But Overlong	The thing to strike me about HEAT is that it's overlong . I don't know if I've been watching too much MTV but a major problem I've had with a great number of movies coming out of Hollywood studios since the early 1990s is that they're too long for their own good and I wish to add HEAT to this list since its running time is taken up with too many unnecessary scenes . If these scenes had been ditched at script stage not only would we have had a shorter film we'd have had a far better one . Take the scene in the coffee bar where the gang have just carried out the initial heist and Neil teaches Waingro a lesson by banging his head off the table . Seeing as they're shown throghout the story to be well organised , professional villains why would Neil draw attention to themselves by assaulting Waingro in this way ? It's a scene that lacks any credibility and should not have been included . There's another problem with too many domestic scenes , the film tries to show the audience the marital marital / romantic life of every major character , cop and robber . I know Michael Mann's later movie THE INSIDER is also full of scenes involving home life but that's necessary to the plot and characterisation . Here it is not HEAT isn't by any means a bad film , on the contaray it's a good one . DeNiro and Pacino in the same movie , boy what a casting coup . Not only that we get to see Val Kilmer when he was famous plus up and coming names like Portman , Sizemore and Fichtner , and once the story gets going it is very compelling with a breath taking shootout . Unfortunately because someone ( I'm guessing Michael Mann deserves all the blame for this ) thought they'd stretch out a two hour movie into a three hour one HEAT remains good instead of great
Atmospheric	I'm not much of a horror film fan and have always found much of Hammer's output mediocre ( Especially their FRANKENSTIEN and DRACULA stuff ) but I do believe THE REPTILE is one of best films to have come out of the studio . It does contain some stilted performances and dialogue , some obvious day for night filming , and the corny cliche of an Innkeeper ( " Strangers sir ? We don't get strangers in these parts " ) but rightfully THE REPTILE concentrates on mystery and atmosphere rather than gore and the make up on the title creature is very good . I remember this film terrified me as a child and seeing it again as an adult I did find it very entertaining . Good scary fun
One Of The Better Thrillers Of The Decade	The phrase " Thriller from the 1980s " usually conjures up images of explosions , car chases , and a very high body count , not to mention catchphrases like " I'll be back " , but DEADLY PURSUIT ( As it's known in the UK ) is a far more intelligent thriller . Part buddy movie with a slightly redneck tracker teamed up with a black FBI agent , part whodunnit ( I guessed wrong as to who the criminal was , it's revealed about half way through ) this remains a highly involving chase thriller , not to mention a very underrated one
The Shadow Of Hangs Over It	The events of the 11th of September 2001 cast its shadow on this Oscar award ceremony with a one minute silence before the in memoriam montage and there was little in the way of the all singing all dancing comedy extravaganza that we'd come to expect of this award show but this was by no means a bad thing . Entertainment was more or less curtailed to a LOTR send up with Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson and that was it . The rest of the show was taken up with clips from the nominations and I have to admit this was actually more enjoyable than the overblown song and dance numbers we've seen over the years and Whoopi Goldberg was by no means a bad presenter unlike the very esoteric David Letterman from a few years ago and the one minute silence for the victims of was haunting and dignified As for the awards New Zealand was absolutely robbed . FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING went home with four minor awards while A BEAUTIFUL MIND undeservingly picked up most of the major prizes except for best actor which should have gone to a tough guy New Zealander but went to an An all American nice guy instead . The only Oscar awards I agreed with apart from the ones presented to FELLOWSHIP were the awards for best supporting actress and best supporting actor , both correct calls .
Great Fantasy Film	This is how a sword and sorcery film should be made . Write a script featuring a bunch of heroes going on a quest , employ a string of British character actors like Pat Troughton in supporting roles , make sure you have a FX wizard who knows what he's doing , and don't skip on location filming . JASON AND THE ARGONAUTS isn't a perfect masterpiece , I found the differing accents very irritating for instance , but it does have some outstanding scenes , most notably the sword fight against the boney ones . In fact I'd say in my humble opinion this was possibly the best sword and sorcery film up untill Peter Jackson's RINGS trilogy came along
Possibly The Last Great L & H Picture	BLOCK-HEADS is set up with an idea which must have seemed totally ridiculous in 1938 but when you stop to consider that Japanese soldiers were being found on remote Pacific islands 30 years after the second world war ended the idea stops being ridiculous and becomes shockingly propheticThis is possibly the last of the great L & H movies ( FLYING DUECES being the only other contender ) , after this the comedy duo started appearing in studio features that didn't seem to show much respect to their genius , made them slightly off centre and stretched stories out for almost 90 minutes when a 60 page script would have worked much better This means that BLOCK-HEADS suffers from the mild irritation of so many other Stan and Ollie star vehicles - It's rather episodic . But seeing as it's so funny what have we got to complain about ? Listen out for Stan's tagline " Is there gonna be a fight ? " which is repeated several times and the surreal sequence of closing the blinds on the stairway . Strange when people discuss the films of these two comedy gods they always think of slapstick but forget they were also masters of surrealist visualism too . The funniest moment is probably the final scene in Ollie's apartment involving the married couple from next door I still think THE LAUREL AND MURDER HARDY CASE is the best of their vehicles but BLOCK-HEADS deserves its own mention as being one of the very last superb Stan and Ollie comedies
Obstacles	A couple of Yankee youths take a trip to the deep south and find themselves being charged for murder . Thankfully one of the youths has a cousin who's a lawyer Did I say thankfully ? I'm not a big fan of comedies since the premise usually over stays it's welcome by at least half an hour , but screenwriter Dale Launer has crafted a very funny , well paced script that succeeds because of the amount of obstacles for the characters . Lawyer Vincent Gambini is warned by the judge to get a suit , so he gets a suit only to find there's an obstacle in the way . Vincent stays at a hotel , but there's an obstacle in staying there . Every time a character the audience feels for looks like they're going to get a lucky break ( Vincent especially ) another obstacle appears barring their way . A superlative example of pacing a script . Launer has also written things that at first appear throwaway at the time like eating grits at a diner but then incorperates them into the plot later on . Not only that but Launer has written a script with gags that are both credible and funny , even the skit involving possible sexual abuse in prison ( They'd have to be one of course ) isn't as silly as it could have been The cast are pretty good too with Joe Pesci showing that he's just as good as a comedy leading man as he is at playing Italian American wiseguys . Let's see you in another movie sometime quick Joe . I'm not sure if Marisa Tomei really deserved her Best Supporting Actress Oscar for her role here but if the choice was between her and Vanessa Redgrave I'm glad the Oscar voters made the choice . The only real problem with the casting is that it's impossible to believe the short middle aged Vincent would have a hot leggy girlfriend like Mona in real life . But maybe I'm just jealous ?
Overrated But Entertaining American Movie	This came third in Channel 4's recent 100 GREATEST WAR MOVIES poll a few months ago which did rather surprise me since I've always found it somewhat overrated but it does remain a fairly entertaining American movie Yes THE GREAT ESCAPE is an American movie and I'm glad that the IMDb classes it so . It's directed by an American , is produced and financed by an American studio and most ironic of all the theme tune that is adopted and chanted by English football fans was written by the American composer Elmer Bernstien . It may contain many British actors but notice also the likes of Garner , Bronson and Coburn playing British Commonwealth characters which is down to what's known as " Audience identification " ie if a movie is made with American money the Yanks want their movie to do well in America hence nearly every " British " movie you see has a major character played by an American actor As for the story itself everyone has seen the movie ( We in Britain get to see it almost once a year usually at Xmas ) so I won't linger on it too long except to say it comes in what can only be described as two parts . The first part centres on the build up of the escape with the movie's tongue firmly in its cheek ( Werner the stupid German , man jumps on bunk and it collapses etc ) with the prisoners on the run making up the second part of the story which is more serious in tone . Also watch out for the ironic scene early in the film where a character chastises someone for replying in English to a question in German as the escapees plan their escape with the character later on making the same mistake himself . Who says Americans have irony deficiency ?
Sometimes Wonderful . Often Irritating	I'd heard a lot about KINGDOM OF HEAVEN when it was released in 2005 . Most of the reviews were rather uncomplimentary so I made a point of missing it until it was broadcast on Channel 4 last night and as I write this review I remember a lot of beautiful things about this movie . Unfortunately I can remember far more things that annoyed me Ridley Scott has been swotting up on the films and technique of David Lean and in many ways Scott is a natural successor to that legendary film director . The battle scenes are even better than the ones seen in Jackson's THE TWO TOWERS and RETURN OF THE KING and at no time did I believe I was watching an unconvincing CGI battle fest , just an army of thousands of extras walloping each other over the head like you'd see in the greatest Hollywood epics of yesteryear . Scott has also assembled a truly great cast that includes household names like Neeson and Irons alongside very effective character actors like Norton , Glen , Thewlis , Sheen and Gleeson . It must have been something of a gamble for Scott to cast pretty boy Bloom in the lead role since he's the sort of " movie star " who's only famous because of his good looks rather than any outstanding thespian ability but Orlando Bloom probably gives his greatest performance in this film . The only thing that the director Can be criticised for is an over reliance of slow motion during the battle scenes but apart from that everything else on screen is Oscar worthy , though since Scott was under rewarded at award ceremonies you get the feeling that he was trying a little too hard to win an Oscar There's an old saying that " if a film is good then it's down to the director and if it's bad it's down to the screenwriter " and this is certainly true of KINGDOM OF HEAVEN . Throughout the running time I was left scratching my head wondering about characters motives and why certain characters did certain things and let's not ignore the clichés of " You are a brave warrior so I will let you live " type moments . Some people claim that the studio should be held responsible rather than screenwriter William Monahan since they made several cuts to the final print and there's a disjointed feel to the narrative . Perhaps this is true but I wonder how many people watching this on DVD or on television like me had to keep logging in to the wikipedia in order to understand what was happening on screen . It should also be pointed out that there's a rather politically correct feel to the story with neither Christians or Muslims being portrayed as out and out villains with only the Knight templars being portrayed as evil . One wonders if the knight templars were still in existence today if they'd be shown in this way . In many ways it's like watching a second world war film where Germans are shown as being as much as victims of Nazism as those in the occupied territories . Honestly I was expecting the templars to goose step in to battle while proclaiming " I vos only obeying orders " . It says something about the quality of director and cast when they can rise above such one dimensional scripting In short this is a film that is sometimes beautiful and stunning but often irritating , confused and plodding . It is well directed and acted but you often get the impression that it tries too hard and this works against it . Historians probably won't like it and you get the feeling no one will love KINGDOM OF HEAVEN and everyone will give slightly different reasons as to why they didn't love it . In short it's a very flawed masterpiece
Fair Enough Story Which Will be Remembered For The Stunt Casting Rather Than The Plot	It seems that DOCTOR WHO has now become part of Christmas and I for one am glad of that . I always used to receive a DOCTOR WHO annual without for my Christmas as a youngster . Ironically enough a few minutes after seeing this Christmas I caught a snippet of CORONATION STREET where a child character was trying out their " human Dalek " mask seen in Daleks In Manhatten . It says something of the show's success when BBC merchandise makes an appearance in an oppositions show As for the episode itself it will be for ever remembered as " The one with Kylie Minouge " which isn't really a bad thing . Whilst being enjoyable this episode by Russell T Davies is far from original . I'm all for traditional ( read scary ) stories but basically it's a remake of the 1977 story Robots Of Death where instead of passengers being murdered by voc robots they're being murdered by robotic angels . Throw in some of THE POSIEDON ADVENTURE and you've got television by numbers . I shouldn't criticise too much because it was much better than the previous year's special and this episode got almost 14 million viewers making it the second most watched programme of the year - only the EASTENDERS episode the same day got more viewers !
Very Unbiased	I had thought right away that because SHOOT TO KILL had the name Peter Kominsky in the credits I'd be watching an entirely biased , speculative infactual docudrama that portrayed Northern Ireland policeman as SS troopers while armed terrorists were going to be shown as being either fiesty freedom fighters or peace loving pacifists . I must say I was surprisedThis docudrama revolves around the very real life case of the investigation brought against E4A , the Royal Ulster Constabulary ( RUC ) elite undercover unit who were responsible for shooting dead several republican terrorists engaged in terrorist activities in 1982 . This led to the director of public prosecutions in Britain setting up " The Stalker Inquiry " where Deputy Chief Constable John Stalker ( Played here by Jack Shepard ) of Manchester police force investigated the cases to see if there were any unlawful killings by the RUC . As I stated at the start of this review as was expecting there to be pro republican bias throughout but there's none . In fact it's a refreshing change to see terrorists in Ireland portrayed as terrorists with SHOOT TO KILL opening with a car bombing that murders three police reservists . The teleplay also shows the resentment shown by RUC men that the British state are investigating them when they're engaged in a conflict against ruthless killers and Stalker is told " In the last year tweleve policemen , twenty eight soldiers and fifty seven innocent civilians have died at the hands of terrorists " , so thanks to the production team for pointing out that the IRA and INLA are not the boy scouts . The only thing the RUC men seen here are guilty of is that they falsified statements when engaged in their dangerous activities , and that they shot a couple of teenage boys who they genuinely thought were IRA members , and if after watching this you left unsatisfied by the conclusions the real life The Stalker Inquiry met the same fate as shown on screen here
Good Film Though The Michael Mann Flaw Strikes Again	As thrillers go COLLATERAL is outstanding for the most part . Michael Mann visual approach is beautiful , tense and very well paced . Tom Cruise , an actor who I've never been too keen on gives his best performance for many a year as Vince a ruthless hit-man but is overshadowed in the acting stakes by Jaime Foxx as Max the cab driver . The real star of the movie though is Stuart Beattie's screenplay because it's not very often major Hollywood studios produce something so well written that turns up the tension ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Throughout the movie it looks like Max is going to come to some serious harm " Open the trunk sir " " Is all this necessary officer " " Just open the trunk " Which will have the audience screaming OMG how's Max going to get out of that ? OMG they've taken Vincent's briefcase , OMG the cops think Max is Vincent , OMFG As I said this is a film that will have the audience biting their fingers . That is until the last act where the movie loses a lot of its momentum . I wouldn't say the ending sucked it's just that Vince trying to kill the only person who knows that Max isn't Vince is a rather average and anti climatic plot twist . I also couldn't help noticing that this is a problem with most if not all of Mann's movies . THE KEEP has a ridiculous and confused ending , LAST OF THE MOHICANS and HEAT are very anti climatic with the best bits taking place in the middle of the movie and I haven't mentioned the crap endings of every single Miami VICE episode . Like everything else Mann has made the best bits ( Like the aforementioned scenes and the nightclub shoot out ) happen before the end COLLATERAL still manages despite the slightly disappointing ending
A Memorable Musical Ditty	Stan and Ollie hire a trailer and go for a camping trip to the remote countryside , get accidentally drunk ( It can happen you know ) and that's basically it as far as the threadbare plot goes . However the film feels more cohesive than some of the other L & H shorts which are sometimes a series of set piece prat falls with little regard to the over all plot . There's also a very memorable ditty that goes La la la lala lala la la la Pom Pom Which will disappear into your head and then reappear in your memory sometime in the future and will have you scratching your head asking " Where does that song come from ? " Just like everyone else on this page I liked THEM THAR HILLS but wouldn't say it's the greatest ever L & H short . In fact I wouldn't even say it's the greatest short featuring Mr and Mrs Hall because the sequel TIT FOR TAT released the following year is even better
A Documentary More Than Anything Else	If we're going to talk about hyper realistic film making let's forget about the likes of Peter Watkin's , Mike leigh Ken Loach etc and talk about Frizt lang's M . I kept forgetting this was a feature film and consciously thought I was watching a 1931 German documentary featuring a serial child killer . Seriously I did . All throughout the running time we cut to concerned parents , policemen who have no leads and criminals who are falling over themselves wanting the child killer to be caught . And it should be pointed out that this is where the realism lies - the criminals have ulterior motives because the police search means the gangs can't operate their wares due to the heavy police presence . Something similar happened during the troubles in Northern Ireland in the 1970s and 80s when loyalist terror groups found they couldn't operate extortion rackets and robberies and drug dealing because their more extreme death squads carrying out secterian murders attracted too much attention from the RUC , so they eliminated them . Be very wary of criminals who take the moral high ground because there's no honour amongst thieves Peter Lorre as Hans Beckert doesn't appear in the movie until well after the halfway mark of the running time though his sickening shadow does hang over the film throughout . It's by no bad thing lorre's appearance is held back because after later emigrating to Hollywood the illusion is somewhat shattered when he finally does appear on screen and you only then realise you're watching a feature film and not a fly on the wall documentary , but as I said Lorre's bone chilling performance hangs over the entire film and Hans Beckert is one of the most disgustingly memorable villains from 20th century cinema If I have a problem watching M today it has nothing to do with the way it was originally made , it's all to do with the modern day presentation where there's no black background to the subtitles which means it's very difficult to read the white letters on the faded film print . I hope to see someone to a fully restored version where someone has taken the time and trouble to make the captions / subtitles easier to read
Good First Time You See It	THE MATRIX is a good film , without doubt the greatest film featuring the sub genre of cyberpunk , but it's film whose reputation is mainly built upon having a very clever premise more than anything else . I remember being absolutely stunned at the revelation of the plot , but when I saw it for a second time at the weekend on channel 5 ( First time I saw it was about three years ago ) I was slightly bored by the film . It's by no means a boring film , it's just that once you know how the plot twists , turns and sometimes boggles the mind the revelations don't have the same effect second time around . THE MATRIX hasn't been helped either by the amount of spoofs / rip offs featuring the scenes where the action stops , the frame freezes , the camera turns 360 degrees and then the action starts again . These scenes were jaw dropping at the time but have now been done by countless ads , pop videos and other movies it's become impossible now to remember the impact this cinematography technique had at the time . I also think the producers of THE MATRIX haven't done themselves any favours by turning THE MATRIX into a franchise To sum up this is a good film . Like me you'll certainly enjoy it first time you watch it but unlike say MEMENTO ( Note the cast connections between the two movies ? ) THE MATRIX doesn't reward the audience with repeat viewings and at the end of the day the not too dissimilar TOTAL RECALL is probably a more enjoyable film
Certainly Better Than Its Ill Deserved Reputation	PREDATOR 2 is a strange type of sequel . It doesn't feature any of the characters from the original movie which probably explains its box office failure . You can just imagine an audience squealing with delight when the studio let it be known there was going to be a follow up to the first film , only for the audience to weep in disappointment when they found out it was starring Danny Glover rather than Big Arnie . Sequels without the original characters never seem to do well as the recent 28 WEEKS LATER show ( It's a much better film than is given credit for ) but I think the producers deserve some congratulations for trying something different Certainly this movie gets off to an explosive start with the LAPD in a shoot out with a Latino drugs gang and it's safe to say that both the pyrotechnic and stunt team earned their money with this shoot . Like the original this is an action / adventure film and there can be no complaints that this is a boring movie . Stephen Hopkins directing may be slightly uneven but he does very well in some scenes such as the aforementioned opening , the metro sequence and the scene where a decapitation takes place overdubbed with the character's screams as his head is carried away . The violence may be more " ugly " in the words of Roger Ebert but I preferred this more than the comic strip violence of the original . My only real criticism is that the ending is rather flat compared than what went before All in all a rather enjoyable movie for those audiences who are in to action adventures and SF . It's a hugely under rated movie which people should judge for what it is rather than what it's not . Okay it doesn't have Arnie blowing away lots of bad guys but when you compare it to these dire ALIENS V PREDATOR movies it's actually quite good and hopefully now its reputation will go up slightly
A Not Unimpressive Amoral Film	While the end credits were rolling I noticed an on screen disclaimer along the lines of " All the characters and situations are fictional and any relation between the events depicted in this film is entirely coincidental " which had me scratching my head because whenever I read about Terence Malik's BADLANDS I'm told that it's based on a true story about two teenage lovers who went on a killing spree in 1950s America . Thank you very much IMDb for pointing out via the trivia section and other reviewers comments as to why the producers suddenly wanted everyone to think that this is not intended as a true story . I'm sure it would have been impossible to make anti heroes out of the true life protagonists As it stands Kit and Holly are portrayed as two amoral children living out a childhood wish fulfillment . They kill someone and then spend a long period of time living out in the woods . It's almost like these childhood fantasies we have when we're younger how wonderful it would be if we could just escape from a world of industrialization and adults and just do whatever the hell we wanted with no interference and the point is hammered home when Kit builds a tree house out in the woods . Who but a child has ambitions to spend their life in a tree house ? However I find myself asking myself how this would be possible , is it likely that two teenagers wanted for murder , who have no probable experience of rural life and who both smoke cigarettes being to live off the land without having to buy groceries or go into town ? I could have accepted this if it stuck to a true story but not if it's been heavily fictionalised . Likewise we really don't find out the motivation behind the killing spree , Kit and Holly ( Well Kit since Holly is portrayed as being a bystander of sorts ) allow some people to live and some people to die without any rhyme or reason to it . Come to think of it perhaps the reason BADLANDS is so well regarded is because it's supposedly based on a true story . If you start looking upon it as a made up story it seems shallow and unimpressive for the most part doesn't it ? Not to be negative this is a good debut by director Terance Malik who manages to bring out two very good performances from the then fairly unknown Sissy Spacek and Martin Sheen . Remember I said something about childhood wish fulfillment ? that's exactly how Spacek and Sheen play their roles - As two children with misguided views on the world in general and love in particular . It's as if Kit and Holly are unaware of what consequence is , which again seems like a child's mentality would be . I also couldn't help noticing that Malik seems to have a great love of nature with shots of wild life and glorious and beautiful sun sets filling the screen , something he used in his later masterwork of THE THIN RED LINE which made me ask myself if Malik is a member of Greenpeace ? Perhaps not since he's an auteur who seems to know that while there's great beauty in nature there's also great cruelty present tooA good though perhaps not great example of cinema from the 1970s when amorality was all the rage
I Laughed Out Loud	This BRASS EYE special PAEDO-GEDDON was swamped by complaints ( More on that later ) when it was broadcast in 2001 following a national debate around a possible " Sarah's law " following the abduction and murder of school girl Sarah Payne . In fact it's scheduling was delayed while Phil Collins took legal advice after he found out he'd been fooled by the show's maker Chris Morris into a starting a campaign entitled Nonce-senseIf truth be told this show is probably more remembered for the controversy than the content which is in very poor taste but I do confess that I laughed out loud . The edition centres around paedophiles and how society treats both them and their victims . Chris Morris plays the presenter who tells the audience that an infamous paedophile has been launched into space then confesses that an eight year old child has accidentally been placed into the capsule along with the paedophile . Cue the child's frightened screams . Like I said very poor taste Other highlights of the show include Dr Fox giving a scientific lecture that paedophiles share an identical nervous system to crabs ( " No one knows this but it's a scientific fact " ) Labour MP Barbara Follet giving a public warning about equipment paedophiles put on their genitals while surfing the net and Kate Thornton warning viewers that paedophiles can send gas through the internet which makes young children suseptable to sexual predators including one victim " Who was once a shy innocent child and who now has the sexuality of a sixty year old Colonel " . Morris also shows a police officer in the child protection squad a serious of photos wanting to know if they're classed as obscene . The photos included Barbie surrounded by a marital aids and a composite photo featuring a young boys head , a dog's body and an erect penis that could only have belonged to John Holmes . Hey I never said this show was tasteful did I ? It's impossible to mention PAEDO-GEDDON without the hypocritical fall out that surrounded it where politicians , childrens organizations and policemen rushed to condemn the show for making fun of a very serious subject . The show was poor taste despite me laughing all the way through it but it's a biting satire . Perhaps the critics should take a long hard look in the mirror where a liberal elite allows convicted paedophile slime to walk around the streets of Britain before they criticise a mere TV show for exacerbating tensions .
A Very Good Action Film	When I was in my early teens you could judge how good a film was because my classmates would discuss it after seeing it on telly , ah yes those were the days when there was only three TV channels and hardly anyone owned what was known as a VCR . When THE WILD GEESE was first broadcast on television my peers and I were discussing it scene by scene for days afterwards . If 15 year old schoolboys liked this film no other praise is needed . Looking back however TWG is flawed . As several other reviewers have noted most of the actors look like they'd be better cast in DADS ARMY , they're far too old to be playing tough adventurers . Roger Moore I'm sure is a very nice human being but I've seen tropical rain forests that are less wooden , watch his introductory scene and monologue and beware of splinters . And there's a redemption sub plot featuring a racist Rhodesian and a black politician which doesn't ring true . But having said that TWG is still a very good action film especially for people who are fed up with Hollywood blockbusters where Arnie , Sly and Bruce blow away a myriad of bad guys without suffering a scratch . Burton and Harris in the same film ! I wonder how much of the budget went on the drinks bill ?
This Is Funny	I'm not a fan of comedies but any movie that starts with a scene of school children writing to their penpals with the following dialogue : " Dear Queen Elizabeth . How is England ? " " Dear Bishop Tutu . How are you ? " " Dear bow tie serial killer . I have all your newspaper articles " has something going for it , and the best thing about PROBLEM CHILD is the amount of very bad taste comedy . It's almost like a Farrelly Brothers comedy ( THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY , KINGPIN etc ) in both feel and execution . Okay so it's a goofy movie , okay some of the acting is poor , and okay you can see some of the jokes coming a mile away ( Oh a bear costume . I bet a real bear will turn up within the next five minutes ) but I watched it on TV one wet Sunday afternoon and had a few laughsI can't help thinking that the poor response from many forum members might be down to the fact that this was marketed as a " family comedy " . I can just imagine many parents renting this from the video store , taking it home and watching it with their cherubs only to find it features attacks on religion and family pets . I reckon Joe Stalin would have enjoyed this movie as much as I did
Perhaps I May Need More Convincing	The Mcmartin / Buckey allegations even made news reports in Britain such was the scandal of over 300 children being molested . So does this TVM give the definitive account ? In my humble opinion - No The problem I have with INDICTMENT is despite often using transcripts from the actual trial there is no real attempt by the script to show a wider picture as to why the children and their parents made the allegations and to who was guilty of what . There are some suggestions of course like the children being asked very leading questions by child psychologists , the DA's office being under heavy pressure to prosecute in an election year and even that some of the childrens own guardians being responsible for sexual abuse . But much of this is never followed up . What happened to the parents where it's suggested they were responsible for sexually abusing their own kids ? Were any of them prosecuted for example ? And thinking about these loose ends meant I wasn't too convinced about Ray Buckey's innocence who's side I felt the film tried to be on but which failed to show me inarguable evidence that he was a victim of a miscarriage of justice . Maybe that's how the case ended in real life , a decision that satisfied no one . Being a HBO production this is unlike most TVMs you'll see . James Wood - As always - gives an intense performance of a man obsessed . The supporting cast are good too and it's very well directed by Mick Jackson . It'd be very easy for Jackson to sensationalise the subject of child sex abuse but he keeps his discipline and confines the victims to telling their accounts from the witness stand . These accounts will haunt you for days afterwards
I'm Sure Quentin Tarantino Has Seen This	Did someone say this was written for Clint Eastwood in the title role rather than Walter Matthau ? This would explain how Charley has a couple of sidekicks half his age and how he has a distasteful scene of going to bed with someone young enough to be his daughter . Hey wait a minute if Eastwood had been cast would they have left in that line about " I figured you weren't Clint Eastwood " ? As for the rest of the cast Joe Don Baker is memorable as a really evil hitman , John Vernon plays the most laid back mobster I think I've ever seen in a movie while Andrew Robinson is slightly disappointing after his show stopping appearence in DIRTY HARRY but it's amazing to think his only notable role after this movie is in HELLRAISER some fourteen years later CHARLEY VARRICK is a very clever and totally amoral thriller . It's the sort of film Quentin Tarantino wants to make but he doesn't have the economy of skill to do so , and I couldn't help noticing there's a line of dialogue about " A blow torch and a pair of pliers " that seems to have been reused in PULP FICTION
Michael Moore Would Learn Something From This Documentary	This is a documentary dealing with the appeal of Aileen Wuornos murder convictions . Don't worry I have no idea who she was either and it's only when I'm told that Charlize Theron played her in MONSTER that I discovered who she was . Try asking someone who Aileen Wuornos was and they'll give a similar blank response , and it's only with the words " Charlize Theron - Monster " that their memory will be jogged . Somewhat sad that an acting performance is better known than a series of real life crimes Nick Broomfield's documentary is black comedy of the highest order , he's worth a myriad of Michael Moores ' and lets the facts speak for themselves . Wuornos employed " Dr Legal " at her original trial , a man , or rather spaced out hippy , with no legal experience and no office who attended court after smoking as many as seven joints . I can respect Dr Legal as a toker but how on Earth was someone like that able to defend someone on multiple murder charges ? We're later shown someone claiming being gay is a very modern invention : " Where were the gays years ago ? " " In the closet ? " " No there weren't any gays years ago , they didn't exist back then . Were there any gays when you were at school ? " " I went to a British public school . We invented it along with the Greeks " Broomfield is very much anti death penalty and he's also very much against the cheque book circus that surrounded the case , but perhaps the beauty of this documentary is that despite being biased Broomfield doesn't feel the need to twist facts into lies or treat the audience as retarded schoolchildren , if you agree with the death penalty this documentary won't change your mind but does raise serious questions about the American legal system
Profound And Obscure Anti-War Film	Columbia Pictures does deserve some credit for producing this . A Red Army tank crew versus mujahedeen in Afghanistan which wasn't a common story idea in 1980s Hollywood . This was a period where Chuck , Sly and Arnie were slaughtering commies in their millions and the world was holding their breath that it wasn't giving the US President ideas . There was also another type of film prolific in those days and that was the Vietnam ( Anti ) War Film . I guess by that time Columbia were aware of the market being saturated by GIs fighting against the Vietnamese and each other so decided to do something a little different with an anti war film Make no mistake THE BEAST is an anti-war film which points out the absurdity of conflict . It's important to remember this otherwise you'll be confused and see it as an entirely implausible story . Some things might seem ridiculous such as the Soviet " good guy " being welcomed in to the fold of the mujahedeen or the tank commander turning down the chance of a helicopter ride home but that's the whole point of the subtext - it's a profound statement on the absurdity of man vs man no matter where it's set or when it's set
It's Very Difficult To Comment On This . . . .	. . . . simply because I saw the Hollywood version a couple of weeks ago and it's still fresh in my mind . I hadn't noticed this until I saw RINGU but what director Gore Verbinski and screenwriter Ethren Kruger have done with the remake is copy it almost scene for scene and in the process made a bit of mess with it . The original as expected is superior simply because the ending is explained clearly just by a simple line of dialouge that clears everything up .
Gritty And Hard Hitting At The Time . . .	. . . But perhaps a little bit dated now This must have shocked audiences at the time . Anti hero cop Popeye Doyle doesn't bend rules because he doesn't understand the concept of rules , catching scumbags is all that matters and if that means beating information out of a small time scumbag so be it . Hackman is really intense in the role and you feel glad that Popeye decided to join the force instead of turning to crime himself . This movie reaches new heights of social realism via Friedkin's directing , it's filmed almost as a documentary with hand held cameras and abrasive jump cuts to other locations . Like I said this must have shocked audiences . . . . . . but only in the 70s . That's the problem with watching THE FRENCH CONNECTION more than 30 years after it was made - we've seen too many similar things in the intervening period . Every cop show as a sort of fascist good guy who would happily torture confessions out of suspects who are always invaribly guilty . When a snitch gives information to Detective Fascist he must be ruffed up a little to keep his cover going . when pursuing a villain Detective Fascist must pursue him in a vast car narrowly missing passers by etc etc . Name every cop show or detective movie and they all have the same type of story That's the main fault of THE FRENCH CONNECTION - it's let far too many genies out of too many bottles , it's been imitated ( Usually in a far inferior manner ) a myriad of times that it seems almost run of the mill now . But despite the familiar subject matter it's still a very effective and hard hitting thriller mainly down to the director and star . I wish I'd seen it in the early 1970s when it seemed like radical film making
Classic Thriller	MARATHON MAN starts off with a blackly comical scene of a fatal car crash and just gets better . William Goldman is a legendary screenwriter and seeing his script play out it's easy to see why . It's not often we're treated to a screenplay this intelligent anymore . But the best thing about MARATHON MAN is Laurence Olivier . Sir Larry is nowhere near regarded as highly as a film actor than he was as a stage actor but here he gives an unforgettable performance as a Nazi war criminal . It would have been very easy for Olivier to play the part as a parody but he's unbelievably convincing as both a mass murderer and a doctor . This is one performance in which Olivier deserved an Oscar nod
I Still Like It	This seemed a very strange choice to broadcast on Remembrance Sunday . If you're foreign let me explain Remembrance Sunday is a day in the British calender where people lay wreaths at their local war memorial and hold a two minute silence in honour of the British war dead who died in the First World War and in conflicts since then . It's an official national event and a very solemn one . Somewhat strange that the BBC broadcast a war film featuring Germans as lead characters ! However THE BLUE MAX does contain some bloody sequences of First World War carnage so I guess it was an obvious candidate for broadcast I first saw this on television in the early 1970s and was impressed with it then . I'm still impressed with it now though with reservations . As several people have pointed out the story drags when the story switches to the adultrous affair between Bruno Stachel and his Baroness lover . It should also be pointed out that George Peppard and Ursula Andress are rather unconvincing in these scenes and seem to be playing characters in a romantic drama set in the 1960s than in the early part of the century . I hated these scenes when I first saw the film and I hate them thirty years later . I also can't help thinking this sub plot makes the movie slightly over long . Was it included to make the movie more marketable to a female audience ? If a movie features thousands of men sticking bayonets into each other no woman will be going to the cinema to watch the movie full stopThat's my only real criticism though there are one or two other flaws regarding historical facts and planes used , but lets look at the positive points . This the best film I've seen featuring First World War dogfights , when you see a movie like ACES HIGH etc it's painfully obvious that actors are sitting in front of some back projection but with the exception of one rather poor scene you can believe the cast are indeed flying their own planes , the arial battles are superb as are the battles on the groundThe cast play up to their characters in thinking they are 20th century knights fighting in an honourable and elitist way and though they're the other side it's impossible to hate them in anyway , and it's interesting to see James Mason playing a morally upstanding army officer in a role almost identical to the one he played in CROSS OF IRON . I guess it doesn't matter whose side your on because politics will win out in the end
Interesting Premise But Flawed	A society where books are banned ! It's not a fantasy . Consider the likes of Nazi Germany , Stalin's Russia , Mao's China etc , but the flaw with FAHRENHEIT 451 lies in the idea that not certain books are banned but ALL books are banned . Think about that for a moment then ask yourself this question : How would a society be able to function under this law ? We're shown schools still exist but how do pupils learn without being able to read text , and if people can not read text then how will they be able to write ? It seems impossible that a society would still be able to function without books That flaw is down entirely to Ray Bradbury's source material but Francois Truffaut's adaptation of Bradbury's novel is very uneven in every way . Take the cast for example , Oskar Werner seems very miscast while Anton Differing is once again very type cast as a fascist ( Differing's last ever role was in an episode of DOCTOR WHO where he played a Nazi war criminal ! ) , but Cyril Cusack gives a very good performance as the fire chief . Traffaut also shows his new wave roots by casting Julie Christie - Quite unnecessarily - in two different roles . And talking of new wave this is the movie that's best remembered as having the title sequence whose credits come via a voice over as the camera zooms in on a montage of TV receivers , and watch out for the scene where it looks like we're going to be treated to a split scan sequence then for some reason we're not . To give the director credit though his visage of the near future is very recognisable unlike many directors at the time who seemed to think we'd be living in space cities by the end of the 20th century MILD SPOILER Perhaps FAHRENHEIT 451 can be summed up by its ending . It's touching and sad and feels very European ( And watch out for the injoke ) but once again there's flaws with the idea of the book people . Just how much information can the average human being assimilate ? Even more importantly - How would a human being be able to keep that information in their head for the rest of their lives ? I doubt if I'd be able to remember this review word for word this time next week Despite the many flaws I did enjoy this film for the most part and I'm someone upset that Hollywood feels the need to do another version of Bradbury's novel even though the remake is being made by the director of THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION . No doubt we'll be treated to scenes of Stephen King books being torched
Colourful Though Flawed Fantasy Adventure	To enjoy this movie one must turn off their brain as soon as the theme tune of 20th Century Fox starts . The whole set up is very hard to swallow - A scientist who know the secret of miniaturization is injured by commie assassins and now lies in a coma due to a blood clot on the brain and only by miniaturizing a submarine type capsule and sending both it and its crew through an artery can both the scientist and free world be saved . It's never actually explained as to why miniaturizing is such a radical development for espionage or warfare . Think about it does this mean you can infiltrate the Kremlin by sending an envelope containing a miniaturized army ? Seeing as the enemy are aware of the process they can easily protect themselves against this - By running a rolling pin over all incoming mail . And wouldn't shrinking someone to the size of something little bigger than an element kill them anyway due to the changes in mass ? Wouldn't air pressure alone kill any miniaturized person ? And wouldn't it have been a good idea to vet the crew to find out if any of them were claustrophobic before sending them on their mission ? You understand what I'm saying don't you ? The ideas and plot devices presented are entirely laughable because of their nature , that's why I told you to stop thinking about it . If you manage this you've got a pretty enjoyable escapist fantasy once it gets started . You realise that if the capsule crew go on an uneventful journey we wouldn't have much of a movie so we find obstacles at every corner involving detours , anti-bodies and a traitor within and if none of this gets you excited how about Raquel Welch in a really tight costume ? What do you mean she hasn't been given any decent lines ?
Clever Movie With A Stand Out Character Played By Harry Andrews	I'm amazed that THE INTERNECINE PROJECT has received less than 100 votes . I saw it a couple of times in the early 1980s and despite not seeing it for almost 25 years it's still lodged in my mind as being a clever thriller . Perhaps I shall never watch it in case it's not as good as I remember . The plot centres around former secret agent Robert Elliot ( Played suavely by James Coburn in one of his best roles ) gaining a White House promotion , just the first step in a long and successful political career . There's just one thing and that is there's several people who know about Elliot's past and Elliot can't allow his dirty secrets to be revealed by anyone I won't reveal the plot but it's smart and there's a twist at the end . But for me the best part of the movie is where Elliot visits the home of military veteran Albert Parsons played by Harry Andrews . Parsons and his collection of cats warmly greet Elliot , but it's obvious by his mannerism that Elliot has something on his mind : " We've got a problem " " A problem sir ? " asks Parsons " It's to do with a woman " Parsons is shocked " A WOMAN SIR ? " Elliot rubs his chin and studies Albert " She's a sort of high class whore " By now Parsons is having convulsions and spitting his hatred " THEY'RE ALL WHORES THE WHOLE LOT OF THEM , YOU CAN'T TRUST ANY THEM SIR , NOT ANY OF THEM " Hmmm I wonder if Albert Parsons is a repressed homosexual ?
Effective Short Film	Three people sit around a dinner table and right away the audience jump to the wrong conclusion as to who is who and how they all fit into each other's lives . one of the characters then decides she's not been getting enough sex and decides to do something about it but sex like love and career never EVER goes according to plan Ruth Coulson's short film is a good enough example to show how to make an effective short . Despite lasting only eight minutes it contains enough twists and turns to keep the audience amused and contains some bitterly salty dialogue . Let's be honest the jibe about Hampstead Heath while not being politically correct does sound like the sort of thing a sexually frustrated heterosexual woman might say to a gay friend . It's also good to see a short film containing at least one actress ( Claire Goose ) the audience might recognise
Entertaining Comedy	was actually surprised that BOWFINGER got a mere average rating of 6 . 4 on this site because the IMDb is full of wannabe film makers who are gonna love a movie satirizing the Hollywood studios , a film both cruel and amusing in turn and it would be very interesting to see how the votes panned out . I'm sort of guessing here that the wannabees awarded it very high marks while the typical Eddie Murphy fans , casual film goers and those people who claim THE MUMMY RETURNS is the greatest film ever ( And no I'm not criticising anyones opinions and tastes ) would have given it relatively low marks . I'm guessing that it's a possibly a film that unfortunately went above a lot of headsFirst off is the title BOWFINGER . What sort of image does that conjure up ? Possibly a James Bond spoof ala AUSTIN POWERS with lots of slapstick ? If you enjoy that sort of schoolboy humour you'll be very disappointed . Likewise if you're an Eddie Murphy fan because Murphy's dual performance is very restrained here and all the better for it . It also has an opposite effect for people who don't like Eddie Murphy ( Or for that matter Steve Martin ) very much but are people not keen on either Murphy or Martin going to watch this in the cinema ? I was very happy that the movie did relatively well on its initial release in 1999 because it certainly had the potential to be a flop at the cinema The premise is very simple : Film producer Bobby Bowfinger ( Martin ) has a knock back from Hollywood star Kit Ramsey ( Murphy ) so Bowfinger decides to secretly film him anyway and edit it into his movie . Thankfully the screenplay of BOWFINGER is developed well enough for maximum comic effect , Bowfinger is making a sci-fi movie so Kit finds himself facing aliens at one point and yes he genuinely believes they are real aliens . Bobby Bowfinger himself seems to have been based on the infamous Ed Wood while watching Kit attend the MindHead classes one is perhaps reminded of John Travolta or Tom Cruise and I don't care what the critics say - Some of the gags like the scene with the dog in the underground car park are laugh out loud funny without ever going OTT All in all a fairly amusing satirical comedy that enjoys taking pokes at the American film industry and certainly one of the better films that have either starred Martin or Murphy
Much Better Than THE EXORCIST	This movie appears in the book 50 Worst Movies Of All Time alongside such fare as ROBOT MONSTER . This is completely undeserved because i rate THE OMEN as one of the best horror movies from the 1970s , if not all time . The book in question makes a big deal of how young Damien's parents experience some ghastly going ons without realising something is seriously wrong , but this is churlish since the audience ( like in most horror movies ) are one step in front of the protagonists , we instantly know what's going on even if the characters on screen don't and this is what makes the narrative so suspenseful , we're waiting for Ambassador Robert Thorn to put two and two together . It should also be pointed out that these types of tradgedies do happen in life and there's a rational explanation with no supernatural causes involvedComparisons with both THE OMEN and THE EXORCIST will be made but this is by much the better film I think . Both films deal with satanic powers and both are very dead pan but unlike THE EXORCIST the serious tone of this movie doesn't go against it , THE EXORCIST goes out of its way to shock the audience while THE OMEN keeps its discipline and is all the better for it . Richard Donner brings shock moments where it's needed like the revelation of the priest after the fire , the scene in the cemetery and the lorry accident at Megiddo and unlike the shock scenes in THE EXORCIST they're never unintentionally funny . Giving roles to well known Brit character actors like Patrick Troughton , Billie Whitelaw , Leo McKern and David Warner also helps the movie a lot The only real criticism I have is that it's not as good as I originally remembered after seeing it for the first time , but that's a problem with a great number of movies I've seen , or that the biblical city of Megiddo is nowhere near the location described in the screenplay ( It is in fact a few short miles west of the border of the West Bank on the route to Jenin ) but that won't matter to 99 . 9 % of the rest of the audience . If I ever write a book called 50 Best Horror Movies Of All Time THE OMEN will definitely feature in it
Enjoyable Enough Animated Short	THE DARK hits a nerve as it starts with a couple of bogeymen standing at the stairs of a young child's bedroom one night . I think I speak for everyone who's seen QUATERMASS , DOCTOR WHO or THE X-FILES as a child when I say the scariest place in the world is a bedroom coupled with an overactive imagination . Nostalgia strikes home even more when one of the bogeymen mentions toilet training and " A cold clammy hand on a buttock " ! As a child I often feared that we'd be taken over by an invasion of Sea Devils using a toilet as their bridgehead . Even now I still have panic attacks whenever I hear someone play a stylophoneUnfortunately THE DARK fails to keep up this narrative momentum as the bogeymen depart to a monster club and make small talk . But this is an animated short film which means the animation is probably the most important thing and in that case I was impressed and I'm slightly puzzled as to why it hasn't a better average rating
A Very Dark Comedy	This was made in 1934 ! One thing I hadn't realised untill I saw this film again on BBC 2 a couple of days ago was that a lonely hearts column is used to kick start the plot , a lonely hearts column in 1934 ? Here's me thinking sad anoraks and wall flowers sending off ads to publications in order to meet equally desperate people was a relatively recent concept . Mind you I thought the same about post modernism untill I saw the Bing and Bob ROAD TO . . . movies so what do I know ? Anyway as some of the other reviewers on this page have noted this has a very strange , very dark feel to it . In many ways it feels like Stan and Oliver have walked into a film based on a work of Edgar Allan Poe , and for the first time watching the season of L & H shorts on BBC 2 I couldn't help noticing gaps in logic in the story , watch OLIVER THE EIGHTH and I promise you that you'll be saying " Hey , why didn't they . . . . ? " . Despite these criticisms this certainly one of the better shorts , the bedroom scenes had me laughing out loud , but not for the first time we're treated to a really bad cop out ending . Oh well nothing is perfect
Good Drama	Are there two Robert De Niros ? Just curious because there's one who appeared in classic movies like TAXI DRIVER , RAGING BULL , KING OF COMEDY and ONCE UPON A TIME IN AMERICA and there's another one who seems to parody the aforementioned actor in CAPE FEAR , MEN OF HONOR and umpteen other films whose titles I've forgotten . Well if it's the same Robert De Niro may I suggest that he stops starring in movies where he does nothing except mug for the camera and concentrate on directing more movies . De Niro directs this very well and has resisted the temptation to cast himself as the chief wiseguy instead he plays a bus driver who only appears in a few short - Though important - scenes . If I have any criticism of the directing it's that it slightly resembles Scorsese a little too much with the voice over and the musical soundtrack , mind you I think every American director was using this technique in the 1990s and I doubt if I could do much better and by it's ironic when you think about who directed but the cast never ever go OTT and give good and often understated performances . The story too is both touching and haunting and is far more intelligent than AMERICAN HISTORY X at pointing out the self destructive flaws of racism . If I have a criticism it's that the story is slightly episodic and lacks a central plot but it was based on a stageplay and at least with this " based on a stage play " story we're not subjected to flashbacks every 10 minutes
Probably The Best In The Series	THE PINK PANTHER movies ? Started off well but then soon outlived their welcome in my opinion , I mean a French policeman with a silly accent , just how much milage can you get out of that ? But this 1976 offering is probably the best in the series simply down to the fact the best laughs are darkly comical rather than slapstick , an early example with Clouseau asking " How ? " to be followed a couple of minutes by a laugh out loud scene featuring a couple of old ladies . There's also a very funny sub plot of the world's best assassins trying to bump off Clouseau which includes several funny scenes . I don't feel any guilty at laughing at people dying in this movie There are some weaker points like an overlong scene where Inspector Quinlan gives a shocked look which is embarrassing rather than amusing , and as some of the other people on this page has mentioned the movie does feel rather episodic at some points but I have no hesitation in saying this is Blake Edwards funniest comedy
Impressive Animation	This a very short film lasting five minutes and if it was filmed with actors playing characters it would have failed since it has little plot and is composed of an irritating mother taking her son to a reptile house while giving him her life story while asking him the occasional question as to what's happening with his life So what makes COMBINATION SKIN impressive as a short film isn't Anthony Hodgson's script but his animation which is similar to that seen in SHREK and it's unsurprising that Hodgson contributed to that groundbreaking movie as an animator . I would have liked the visuals to have concentrated a bit more on the residents of the reptile house as we see a brief and touching scene of a poor tortoise lying on its back waggling its limbs but over all this is an impressive animated short film thanks to Hodgson's animation and the voices of Jane Horrocks and Teresa Gallagher
Politically Incorrect Viewed Today	This is certainly the best of the shorts where Stan and Oliver play dual roles . Fair enough Stan plays Stan the child in much the same way as he plays Stan the adult but Oliver plays his child role in a slightly different way ( Almost like the kid at school who loves getting his fellow pupils into trouble off the teacher ) and it's a memorable change to see him without his moustache It's easy to work out that the primative technical challange of having Stan and Oliver appear was children was simply done by building an oversize set and having the duo dress up as children and it's interesting to note that apart from one short sequence ( Where the children are in bed so you don't get to see their faces in close up ) the adults and children never appear in the same shot . It's painfully obvious however that the mouse that appears is a badly animated effect Watching this in 2004 there's a lot of politically incorrect material which would have the do gooder brigade up in arms if it was made today . Children with airguns shooting at mice , a cat getting hit with a roller skate and worse of all an adult threatning to break childrens necks , but it is Stan and Ollie so we can forgive anything in one of the duo's best remembered and funniest shorts
Amusing Short Film	A very amusing short film that's set up when the parents of a teenager receive a note saying : I can no longer tolerate you as parents so have decided to become a badger What makes MARTIN a stand out short is the crackling dialogue . Upon reading the note the father exclaims " I can no longer tolerate you as parents so have decided to become a badger . If he'd wrote that he'd decided to become a cadger that would have made more sense " We also hear lines like " If he has become a badger he might be useful for once , just think of the paint brushes we can make out of his bristles " . Lines like this point out that the Celts have the greatest sense of humour in the world . Also watch out for the character who looks as though he's been kidnapped from 28 DAYS LATERDespite its length ( Or should that be lack of length ? ) MARTIN is enjoyable . No offence to director Imogen Murphy who is at least very competent but most of the credit lies at the feet of writer Geoff Everson
Very Funny Film	This is an unPC very funny film from the Farrelly brothers which gets off to a very funny start with ethnocentric gags about a black midget called Shonte and then keeps up the pace . As you'd expect from a film like this cruelty to animals and physical handicap feature highly on the laugh list . Perhaps the most surprising thing is Jim Carrey who normally wants me to throw my TV out of a window everytime he appears on it , Carrey is good in the role of the meek Charlie and I can't help thinking if he toned down his " Jerry Lewis on speed " act he'd be a very accomplished comedy actor in the same vein as Ben Stiller . In fact Carrey is better than just good as Charlie , he manages to bring pathos to the part . Of course as soon as Hank appears Carrey does go OTT slightly but never enough to make me want to kill the television So a good comedy by the Farrelly brothers , not their best ( That's THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY ) but it made me laugh , and I'm someone who normally hates Jim Carrey
Follows The Formula Very Well	Watching THE LIVE GHOST I was reminded of how this short resembles very many other L & H shorts . This isn't meant as a criticism in any way but it's remarkable how many other films feature Stan and Ollie fishing , we see them do the same in BONNIE SCOTLAND and MURDER CASE and a few other of their laugh fests . Does anyone know if these two comedy greats were obsessed with fishing in real life ? THE LIVE GHOST also shows the duo are at their funniest when Stan plays the hysterical coward who sadly deludes himself if he goes running to Ollie he might able to do something which a big mistake since Ollie plays an arrogant and hypocritical coward lecturing Stan that there's nothing be afraid of . The script telegraphs what the pay of is going to be ( Not to mention the title ) with Stan running around squeling EEEE - EEEE - EEEE , Ollie howling OOOOHHH - OOOOOOHHH - OOOOHHH and this reviewer going Ha Ha Ha Ha Ha HaThe supporting cast of Long , Busch and Housman more or less play the parts that they do in all the other L & H shorts ( Again not a criticism ) so when all is said and done this is certainly one of the most typical short features with Stan and Ollie so is certainly worth watching
Impressive War Drama	Anyone remember a 1965 war movie called BATTLE OF THE BULGE ? That's the movie supposedly set during the Ardennes campaign in Belguim but instead of seeing snow shrouded forests we're led to believe the conflict took place on dusty desert plains . Unfortunately with ATTACK director Robert Aldrich makes a similar error in geography and weather conditions . There's no snow to be seen ( Apart from some fake snow in one scene ) there's no forests and you do get the feeling the movie was filmed on a hot summers day no matter how the cast try and convince you other wise . In fact I felt rather sorry for the actors dressed in heavy greatcoats jumping up and down trying to get into character and it's interesting to note that by half way through the movie everyone has stopped in their vain attempts trying to convince the audience it's a very cold day That said ATTACK is a very impressive war drama - and please note I used the word drama in the last sentence . It's based on a play but unlike a lot of movies based on plays that often use flashback to tell the tale the roots of the source is hidden , this actually feels cinematic . The movie centres around the conflict Lt Costa who blames his commanding officer Captain Cooney for getting his platoon wiped out . The human drama of cowardice and command and the motive of revenge feature very heavily . It should also be pointed out how well Captain Cooney is written and played by Eddie Albert , he's relatively sympathetic as a weak man who seems caught up in things outside his control though at the end he does become a sort of melodramtic carichture . The whole cast do a good job and the scenes with Lee Marvin and Eddie Albert together are superb . It's such a pity no one seems to make war movies this intelligent anymore
Superb Short Film	I've never been a fan of short films . Never have been never will be , but the technical aspects of THE DANCE OF THE SHIVA are superb like the scene where the Indian NCO braves shell fire to save a British officer . In fact I could spend a lot of time praising the technical aspects of this short but I won't bother , I'll just recommend you watch this to understand why I like it . I should perhaps also mention the script by Joseph Miller contains scenes that pull the rug from under the audience like " the hospital scene in India " at the end , and praise too that Miller hasn't painted these Hindu warriors as victims of white European imperalism either . In fact I was shocked to see that neither Miller or director Jaime Payne haven't gone onto do more in their careers which is a pity because they do have obvious talent As a footnote I was also shocked to see that two voters on this board have awarded DANCE OF THE SHIVA . What ? These two voters think this short film is the worst thing they have ever seen ? I guess they must be from Pakistan
I Can Certainly Relate To This . . . . . . .	. . . . . . . . . But before everyone phones the police to have me locked up in an asylum let me please explain that I had the " Neighbours from hell " living below me for over three years . Music would be turned on FULL BLAST below my bedroom at any time of the day or night . The music might get turned on at three in the morning and turned off at midday , it might get turned on at midday and turned off at three in the morning , I would never know when the music was going to get turned on when it wasn't being played and conversely when it was being played - And let me repeat it was FULL BLAST - I'd never know when it was going to be turned off . My life was a waking nightmare , a living hell . My landlords said " Oh nothing we can do , you'd better call the police " which is a euphemism for " We're not going to do anything because we're money grabbing parasites who are only interested in the rent - and don't forget to pay yours before the end of the month Mr Robertson " . I phoned the police but seeing as the neighbours turned their music off everytime they saw the police van driving up the road this was a waste of time - Not that the police seemed all that bothered about my trauma . And it was a trauma , so any film that deals with a man who has to put up with speed addicted freaks playing the theme to PETER GUNN at two O'clock in the morning is my type of movie . The only real difference between the character seen here and me is that I didn't kill anyone , I do confess I certainly wanted to but didn't . Oh and in this film the freaks making their neighbour's life a misery seem to take far less drugs than the ones who lived below me . There's actually a very good story trying to get out of this movie , but DRILLER KILLER is heavily weighed back by the technical aspects . The acting , despite not being the worst I've ever seen isn't all that good while aspects like cinematography and sound are very very poor indeed . To tell the truth it's an almost unwatchable movie , not due to the graphic violence but due to the very poor production values But DRILLER KILLER isn't a total flop . It feels more like guerilla film making than a video nasty , and it's certainly better than garbage like I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE and NIGHT OF THE DEMON . And I can't help feeling if it'd had a slightly more polished feel and a higher budget it'd be compared to the early works of Martin Scorsese
Aspects Both Good And Bad	The second series of the DOCTOR WHO revival will surely be remembered as being very inconsistent . The Satan Planet was an instant classic while Girl In The Fireplace and Love And Monsters split the fans in to love it or hate it camps while few had anything good to say about Fear Her and one wondered at the time how RTD was going to round off the series . By accident or design he wrote a story that summed up the second series perfectly Army Of Ghosts is a rather inconsistent story that sums up RTD's writing style perfectly . THere's post modernist elements like the self reference to SHAUN OF THE DEAD and EASTENDERS , there's the human drama of Rose and Jackie talking about a dead relative etc etc which continues the feel that th revival of DOCTOR WHO is very different from the show that ran from 1963-89 Perhaps what spoils the entire episode is the same thing that has dogged the show's revival and that is over publicity . DOCTOR WHO is a success but it's also a victim of its own success . RTD publicly announced that he'd been unable to buy the rights to the Daleks for the second series but The Sun newspaper published details that the Daleks would be returning for the season finale while TOTALLY DOCTOR WHO published a photo of a Dalek behind some Cybermen . Unforgivablly the next time trailer of Fear Her showed someone being exterminated by a Dalek death ray . In other words this episode becomes rather flat if you can easily second guess that the eponymous ghosts are Cybermen from another dimension while the mysterious sphere contains Daleks
Sometimes Awful . Sometimes Brilliant	Boy oh boy . Daleks versus Cybermen . Has there ever been a fan who hasn't dreamed about this battle royal ? I don't think so either but watching this episode it becomes rather obvious why previous producers haven't come up with this before and that is you've got to sacrifice plot . Even so there's much to dislike bout this episode such as the dialogue between the Daleks and Cybermen which borders on the ridiculous . I honestly kept expecting one or the other to screech " OH CHECK HER . I'LL SCRATCH YOUR EYES OUT DUCKIE " There's another flawed aspect and that is RTD has made the Daleks invulnerable to weaponry . Anyone else feel themselves getting bored as the Daleks exterminated millions of CGI Cybermen without a single loss ? I also thought that director Harper could have used a much longer battle sequence between the Cybermen and the soldiers on the bridge . What about those big rayguns the freedom fighters from the parallel universe brought with them ? Didn't they look ridiculous ? What about that sequence where the " Cyberwomen " suddenly regains her humanity to let the good guys out of a hot spot . Was RTD writing this as he was going along ? On second thoughts I shouldn't be getting too cynical because while Russell T Davies is a far from brilliant writer he does at least know what makes the show a success and that is imagery . He also knows that if you convert a child in to being a fan of the show they'll follow it for life . So what can be more compelling than seeing literally thousands of Daleks flying above the London skyline exterminating everything that moves ? I promise you any child watching this scene will never be able to forget it as with the Daleks being sucked in to Torchwood Tower . Yes they'll never think of Canary Wharf , it'll always be known as Torchwood Tower I doubt if any younger fan of the show will be able to forget the departure of Rose either . The first season of the revival made Rose th focus of the show rather than the ninth Doctor and she was superbly played by Billie Piper . I remember feeling very , very sad in 1973 when Jo Grant was written out of the how nd totally empathised with the third Doctor as he drove in to the sunset alone . But even so this pales compared with the departure scene here . Again you could be cynical and claim Davies has over egged the pudding but again any child fan would like the Doctor be reduced to tears . Congratulations are also in order for introducing Catherine Tate without any pre publicity
The Problem Lies In The Uncinematic Story	There seems to be some surprise that THE COLOR OF MONEY has only achieved an average vote of 6 . 8 ( I rounded my vote up to 7 ) since it has a legendary Hollywood actor reprising a role that made him famous with an up and coming Hollywood legend in a supporting role , in a movie that has yet another legend as director . Ask yourself this : How regarded would this flick be if it didn't feature Newman , Cruise and Scorsese ? There's two problems involved 1 ) It's a sequel to another highly regarded movie which brings prejudice to opinion 2 ) The source novel by Walter Tevis does not lend itself to cinema . That's probably the main problem . People sit around in smoky pool halls talking , nothing much happens plot wise , it's low concept and most obvious of all is that the climax is spectacularly anti climatic Scorsese and screenwriter Richard Price do have a go at making cinema out of an uncinematic story . Ignore the fact that it's about 9 ball pool a curiously American game that you don't see in British pubs and look upon it as a metaphor for hope and dreams . If it featured a manager trying to get a singer a record contract you'd still have the same story . Newman is good ( Though I think Bob Hoskins deserved the Oscar that year ) as is Mastrantonio but Cruise is superb and I can't help thinking that this and BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY are his career highlights , when he has to act all aggressive and angry he actually convinces But at the end of the day people go to the cinema to watch a cinematic movie and despite the plus points THE COLOR OF MONEY probably belongs on the written page
Better Than The Cameron Version	Everyone knows what happened to the Titanic ( So no spoiler alerts needed ) and the opening credits alone are far bleaker than the entire James Cameron epic of 1997 . In fact you can't help thinking Cameron based much of his overrated romantic fantasy on this far superior movie . In A NIGHT TO REMEMBER we see the little Englander mentality , the somewhat xenophobic attitude and the rigid class structure and of course the hubristic lofty ideals of the British ruling class . Cameron used these threads in his own screenplay but for some reason injected romance , action , adventure and a storyline similar to a James Bond role reversal all set during 1912 A NIGHT TO REMEMBER is different , it's not a melodrama produced to make profits for the staggering cost of its production , it's a historical drama featuring the sinking of The Titianic . While not being entirely accurate ( It's far more accurate than that other movie ) it is rather understated and rather bleak and Roy Ward Baker directs in an effective documentary style without resorting to an artificial Hollywood blockbuster style or having to change the laws of physics since throughout the disaster characters are reminded that the sinking ship's weight will pull down everything floating nearby , something a later film ridiculously ignored . If I have one criticism about the directing it's once the survivors are in the sea you don't really get the sense of how cold the environment is and we even see at least one character rowing about with the sleeves of his thin shirt rolled up Far superior to the 1997 mega blockbuster A NIGHT TO REMEMBER shows that a disaster movie / historical drama can be quite effective without being massively expensive . Seven out of Ten
Is Terrance Malik In Greenpeace ? . . . .	. . . . Is what I asked as THE THIN RED LINE started . I mean who but a die hard greenie would have the sheer audacity to open a war movie with a crocodile walking into a swamp and spend the next hour showing us what beautiful things nature and communal pre-industrial life is ? Actually this is the problem with THE THIN RED LINE , it's profound , pretentious and a bit of an overlong mess . Hate , love , war and peace are covered as is the double edged sword of nature . Young men take the dying breath from another in breath taking landscapes but no matter what cruelty mankind inflicts upon itself the undisturbed life of mother nature will continue . Imagine the disappointment of a macho audience turning up to see this war film only to find a holistic polemical with a few ( Well staged ) battle scenes ? This film split critics between SAVING PRIVATE RYAN and THE THIN RED LINE . I must admit I did prefer Malik's movie since SPR is just another " America saves civilisation from Nazism single handed " war movie , but I do recognise this is a movie that's too deep for its own good
Smoking Can Damage Your Health	The main plot of ON THE YARD revolves around inmate Juleson borrowing a couple of packs of cigarettes from prison Mr Fix-it Chilly , but Juleson finds himself unable to pay back Chilly which means intrest on the debt and Chilly is a man who doesn't like non payment . If the entire movie revolved around its central plot it would have worked far better , but the story is crowded with a few too many characters and subplots . This might have worked in the novel ( Which I haven't read but I know is well regarded mainly due to the fact that the author wrote it while in a maximum security prison ) but doesn't really work here . And I'm also led to believe the original novel influenced the HBO prison drama OZ , a show that shares the exact same strength and weakness as this film . Both are gritty , involving and slightly shocking , but both contain too many minor characters who only come to the fore to drive the plot along and then disappear when they've done so , and some of the subplots are faintly ridiculous in ON THE YARD especially the one at the end which will have you asking " How did he manage to get all that stuff without the guards noticing ? " One other thing I disliked about ON THE YARD was the mixed bag of acting . John Heard gives a solid performance as Juleson swinging between fear and fatalistic resignation but I had a problem with Thomas G Waites as Chilly , not so much with his acting but more with his physical appearence . He doesn't carry enough tatoos , scars or look in any way like he's an archetypal prison thug , but maybe that's the whole point ? because he's running things he can pay other inmates to do the dirty work . Most memorable performance is by Hector Troy as the looney latino hitman Gasolino . So if you love OZ you'll certainly like ON THE YARD . It's by no means a classic but at least it doesn't descend into the oft used cliche of having inmates gang-raped every ten minutes so it deserves some credit
A Biblical Story With Extreme Violence	The problem Christianity has in western civilization is that it lacks any sort of street wise credibility . By this I mean that the impression I have of the average Christian minister is some happy clappy vicar with a permanent gormless grin , an effete voice and mannerism , and whose idea of excitement is flower arranging . There not the sort of people to sit down and watch hours upon hours of video nasties , or indeed any type of movie involving much violence . So when I heard the reviews of Mel Gibson's THE PASSION OF THE Christ I thought the critics were over reacting in their condemnation of the violence so I didn't bother seeing the movie until it was broadcast on television tonight . Right from the opening I was struck by how well done the miss-en-scene was . Cinematography , editing , production design , costumes and non diagetic music were interesting , though in some parts John Debney score sounded rather similar to Hans Zimmer contribution to BLACK HAWK DOWN . Right from the very start I appreciated how much work had gone in to the movie and at no point did I ever feel myself wishing that the film had been made in the English language . The fact that this movie made so much money across the English speaking world is something of a compliment to audiences often decried for being low brow As a devout radical atheist the one thing I do congratulate this film for is the ambiguity involving Christ . There are some people who will watch this and think to themselves that Gibson is indeed saying that Christ was the son of God . But others like myself will think that perhaps he is more portrayed as a schizophrenic and it was this delusions that led to him being executed . Certainly James Caviezel gives probably the greatest performance of an actor to have played Jesus Christ and I wonder how much Christian spirit he felt when the Oscar voters didn't give him a nomination for best actor for this role Alas there is one serious problem with the film and that is the violence . Not so much the violence itself but more to do with there's not a lot to the story itself apart from the violence . Perhaps that's why the film didn't receive much in the way of awards from prestigious ceremonies , when people got home from the cinemas they couldn't remember aspects like acting , costume design etc but couldn't forget the graphic violence . Mind you the very few things I remember from the bible was the amount of sex and violence in it so perhaps if people want less violence and a quieter life they should become atheists should they not ? And I'm sure Alfred Rosenberg would have loved this movie
Well Made Short	Sometimes the problem with a short film that has two separate individuals as writer and director is that the two people involved are at odds with each other artistically . One instinctively feels that neither understands what the other is trying to do which means the short suffers With AMELIA AND MICHAEL Stephen Betts has written a relatively low concept story about two human beings who have been in a relationship where the love is burning less brightly than it was several years ago . Director Daniel Cormack has resisted any temptation by " livening " the story up by fancy camera moves that often blights many a short by an inexperienced director and shoots the story so that the audience can feel the emotions the eponymous characters are feeling with guilt and forgiveness being the main emotions felt A story that is short , simple , without a clever plot but one that is essentially human . You may not recognise yourself in the characters but they'll certainly remind you of someone you know
Interesting True Life Story	What an achievement - Someone took the time and bother to make a TVM I enjoyed , this is probably down to someone coming up the shattering , radical idea of bringing an interesting involving story and making it into a feature length television movie ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Aldrich " Rick " Ames decides he's not getting a big enough slice of pie for working at the CIA for so many long years so decides he's going to get his own back by selling secrets to the Soviets , and the best thing is that it's based on fact . I did notice that one of the reviewers takes issue about the accuracy of this tale , I did see a documentary on the Ames case on the history channel and while it didn't mention he flew to Geneva thinking it was Zurich ( Yeah this was probably invention ) it did state he did have a severe drink problem and turned up for work in brand new cars , something his colleagues at the CIA never ever noticed - You've got to worry why it's called the Central Intelligence Agency ? There is a minor flaw with the screenplay and that is it looks like it's going to turn into poor old Aldrich only became a traitor because he wanted to give his family the best out of life , but it doesn't really turn into an excuse , so why do we have to learn about his sick mother in law and his wife wanting to go to university and getting final demands left right and centre ? . But like I said it's only a minor flaw A good TVM and it's interesting to note the director was John MacKenzie the same man who brought us the Brit gangster classic THE LONG GOOD FRIDAY and who also directed DEADLY VOYAGE one of the greatest made for television films ever .
Unoriginal But Effective Enough On A Dark Night	! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Robert Zemeckis directs Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer . If this had been released three or four years earlier it would have been a massive blockbuster since all three were at the height of their box office pulling power . In 2000 all three were slowly but surely sliding down the ladder a bit , but having said that the movie still did pretty good businessWHAT LIES BENEATH plays out like a Hitchcock thriller with Claire Spencer convinced there's something not right about the couple next door and her husband Norman being very cynical on the matter . Despite the unoriginal premise Zemeckis made me jump out of my seat a few times with some simple editing and sound effects . The story starts to twist about half way through into a supernatural thriller and there is a scene in the bath involving Claire and Norman that caused me to literally jump out of my seat so I have no complaints with supernatural elements being brought into the plot . Unfortunately there's one too many supernatural twist at the end which resolves the movie but is rather contrived in its level of coincidence and is rather ridiculous when you think about it in detailHaving said that I should just repeat that this movie caused me to jump a few times and we have the opportunity of seeing Harrison Ford in an unusual role . Don't think about it too much if you're watching it on TV one dark night and you might gain some scary enjoyment from WHAT LIES BENEATH
Memorable B Movie	From what I know about screen writing the more credited writers a film has the worse the narrative is supposed to be . I genuinely think this is nonsense and perhaps CITY UNDER THE SEA is proof of this . It's a movie that has three people involved in he screenplay but is far more entertaining and involving than a great number of films I've seen that have only one screenwriter First of all let's get the bad points out of the way . You don't need a University degree to know that there's no volcanoes off the coast of Cornwall which seems to be included to set up the ending and the back story of the gillmen are conspicuous by its absence . Also if you're a fan of Poe and you watched this movie expecting it to be an accurate adaptation of one of his works then you'll almost certainly feel cheated . The casting of two American characters in two lead roles to appeal to an American market does seem forced , especially when you've already got a well known American actor as the film's villain . Hammer films didn't bow to this type of casting so I've no idea why it's done here In fact CITY UNDER THE SEA plays very much like one of the better Hammer productions concentrating on atmosphere rather than gore . When the film concentrates on this aspect it is genuinely frightening as early in the film when one of the gillmen prowls around the house . I must have been about seven years old when I saw this scene and remember being terrified by it . I saw this scene again earlier today and was not disappointed which is a great compliment coming from me . It's a film that is not Oscar worthy but is great entertainment nonetheless
At Least The Female Lead Is Attractive	SUPERVIRILITY came about through the success of THE LOVERS GUIDE which allowed people to go into High St stores and buy what is to all intents soft core porn without feeling guilty . I emphasise " soft core " because this isn't one of these videos that has a lot of very explict sex scenes looking for a plot - It's an educational tape about how to improve your sex life with several long sequences of two sex therapists facing the camera pointing out that you have to work on improving sex . There's something frightfully British about this and the video is rather condescending in parts - An unattractive body can lead to poor sex ! But I thought personality is what counted when it came to love ? Anyway despite this what about the " stars " of SUPERVIRILITY ? Let's face it the real reason people watch these educational tapes is so they can see people having sex and the couple featured Marino Franchi and Kathryn Shannon do make a strangely contrasting couple . Marino looks like a cave man while the absolutely beautiful Kathryn looks like butter wouldn't melt in her mouth ( DON'T ! ) but the love making scenes which don't come until about two thirds of the way into the running time and because of home video standards in Britain are somewhat restrained compared to videos Marino would later appear in Having said that I doubt Marino Franchi has made love to anyone as attractive as Kathryn Shannon and believe it not they were a real life couple in a relationship when this video was made . I guess the message of SUPERVIRILITY is if you want a really gorgeous girlfriend visit the gym more often while slipping down the evolutionary ladder
Scorsese Should Have Made His Own Movie	I had massive expectations for THE DEPARTED , a violent mob drama directed by Martin Scorsese the greatest film maker in the world today . After seeing it I did have a slight of feeling of something I have experienced throughout my life - Disappointment SPOILERS The film starts in typical Scorsese style of a sweeping framing sequence with a musical soundtrack by The Rolling Stones similar to the work he did in GOODFELLAS . Unfortunately the director doesn't sustain this and whilst never becoming mediocre we don't see much in the way of what cinematic beauty Scorsese is capable of and in several scenes most notably in the death of Queennan the original film INFERNAL AFFAIRS did it far more better THE DEPARTED suffers from a very uneven screenplay courtesy of William Monahan . When it's bad it's woeful but when it's good it's great . It should be pointed out however that when it's good it's entirely down to Siu Fia Mak's original script and if you've seen INFERNAL AFFAIRS you'll notice how tight the storytelling was and how loose and cluttered Monahan's adaptation is in comparison . Did we really need a romantic subplot ? And there seems a lack of thought put into Costello . He's spent years as a crime boss so how come it appears it's only now that the Boston police department have come up with the bright idea of putting several moles into Costello's crew ? Are we to seriously believe that Costello is being protected for < Plot revelation that I won't give away > , and just because a tough gangster likes opera that doesn't make him multi layered , it just makes him clichéd and unconvincing . Most ridiculous scene is where Costello meets his police mole in the cinema . If it's a clandestine meeting then why does Costello draw attention to himself by grunting and pulling out his penis ? Possibly the most stupid sequence I've ever seen in a Scorsese film There's been many other criticisms of this movie , a movie that seems to have split the critics right down the middle . One is the cast . I do think DiCaprio is a much better actor than what he's given credit for but I was never entirely convinced when he has to dish out violence . Someone a little less pretty should have been cast while you're left with the impression that Deniro and Pesci were first choices for Costello rather than Nicholson . Damon does merely okay as Sullivan while Ray Winstone as French is somewhat distracting because he's a widely regarded actor and household name in Britain and seeing him attempt an American accent is something of a shock to the system . The one performance I wasn't keen on was Mark Wahlberg as Dignam down to the fact he plays one of those fast talking foul mouthed cops that we've seen in far too many films and HBO series . Perhaps I'm being somewhat harsh to the cast in general and Wahlberg in particular because the dialog in Monahan's screenplay contains far too much swearing . Yeah I know swearing exists in real life but it's almost like it's included in every line just so the audience know that it's a hard hitting adult drama . I think everyone knew that when we saw the name Scorsese in the title . No need to over egg the pudding or include a fist fight every few minutes otherwise someone might think they're watching a Tarintino movie As for the good points . . . well if you've liked most of this great auteur's movies then you'll certainly like THE DEPARTED , just not as much as you've liked Scorses's previous output . If you have loved most of Scorsese's films then you'll be slightly disappointed . It's not helped by the fact that this is the first movie directed by Scorsese to pick up the Oscar for best film where as master works like TAXI DRIVER , RAGING BULL and GOODFELLAS didn't
Great Production Values . Great Entertainment	I remember watching one of these HORNBLOWER productions when it was first broadcast in the late 1990s but wasn't too taken by it , so when ITV decided to repeat the series the only reason I watched The Even Chance was because there was nothing else on . When the end credits rolled I found myself asking how on earth I dismissed it so slightly when it was first broadcast ? The Even Chance is a superlatively made piece of television , it's production values are outstanding . Unlike Sean Bean in SHARPE Ioan Gruffudd makes a vulnarable and realistic hero and finds himself at the mercy of the sadistic violent bully Jack Simpson played by Dorian Healy . This well written , well acted television and I look forward to seeing the rest of the HORNBLOWER series
How An Action Movie Should Be Made	1988 and the undisputed number one action star was that Austrian body builder with the funny name with that monosylabic guy from ROCKY in second place . The thing I hated about Arnie and Sly is that their action movies were uninvolving with over blown battle scenes where the good guys never seemed to be in danger of dying . I was also going to bring the James Bond franchise into the conversation but the series became a parody when Bond stopped speaking with a Scottish accent sometime in the early 70sDIE HARD is different to the other 80s action fests with John McLane being a fairly believable genre character . Okay he's two dimensional but that's got to be one dimension more than John Rambo who only exists to kill a lot of nasty commies so Americans can flock to the cinema . It's also interesting to note that McLane's wife is used in the plot which is slightly different from how most action films work out where the hero is normally single , but that's probably because DIE HARD as more depth to it than many contemparies . Perhaps the biggest difference is that McLane is slightly flawed as we're shown one scene where the hero gives the bad guys something they want , not something you'd see in a Arnie or Sly movie . I won't mention the stunts or the tightly written set pieces or how compelling they are because everyone else has beat me to it , except to say that big explosions and gun fights often overwhelm an action movie ( Bond movies are a good example ) but here they occur from the narrative instead of someone cramming them into the script in a vain attempt to thrill the audience . Normally I'd have a fit that an action blockbuster is well inside the IMDB top 250 but DIE HARD does deserve to be there since it's the best movie of its type of its era .
Who Wants Children ?	Other reviewers have described HOME ROAD MOVIES as " bitter-sweet " and that's a correct description but despite the story being told from the point of view of one of the father's children all my sympathy was firmly with the dad . He's fought in the war ( And lets everyone know it ! ) and because he wants to give his children some happiness in their lives he buys a car and takes them for holidays in Europe . Unfortunately as the children become adolescents they don't think holidaying with their parents is all that exciting and decide to go on their own holidays . As pointed out this is " bitter - sweet " but am I alone in thinking bitter comes more and more to the fore ? The father looks more depressed and fatalistic as the story progresses until one day he makes a trip to hospital alone , yes alone , the narrator who tells the story lets his father take one last one way journey to hospital alone . Children . Who would have them ?
Should Have Stayed A One Off	IT'LL BE ALRIGHT ON THE NIGHT was heavily hyped in the weeks leading up to its broadcast by ITV in 1977 . This was common in Britain at the time because we only had three channels in those days : BBC 1 , BBC 2 and ITV and no one ever watched BBC 2 so ITV and BBC 1 were at war in order to get ratings The show itself is a collection of out takes from movies and TV shows presented by the painfully unfunny Denis Norden , the type of character who thinks he's funny when in fact he's not . Example ? " With a title like It'll be alright on the night you may think this has something to do with a wedding . . . " I can't think how he described a cock - up . But anyway the clips themselves were outrageous since some of them contained nudity like a singer / dancer struggling in vain to stop her swimsuit from slipping down to reveal her breasts , and the clip from an American news report that has a man cheekily stripping off in the background and waving ( Behave yourself ) with his hand towards the camera . This risque show was the main topic of conversation at school on the Monday morning due to the nudity , but being an innocent soul my favourite clip was the broadcaster announcing a trailer for 70s female prison drama WITHIN THESE WALLS which cut to a bunch of puppets singing and dancing which had me laughing out loud . Unfortunately ITV decided to kill the golden goose by making more editions of IT'LL BE ALRIGHT ON THE NIGHT every couple of years where the supply of genuinely funny clips soon became exausted . Worse than that by the mid 1990s both ITV and BBC schedules started producing a ridiculous amount of out take shows like TV NIGHTMARES , LAUGHTER FILE and AUNTIES BLOOMERS where a very small percentage of clips are either funny or original and has you wishing the first IT'LL BE ALRIGHT ON THE NIGHT had stayed as a one off
Very Good In Places But Ultimately Unconvincing	Long before I watched 28 DAYS LATER I had an online conversation with a couple of my cyber friends Jeremy and Riquez . Jeremy praised the movie thinking it was one of the best film releases in several years . I did point out to him the ridiculous idea that a virus with an incubation period of 20 seconds wouldn't be able to cause the type of havoc as featured in the movie . Riquez contributed to the conversation by saying " Theo you have no problem with rabid zombies but you find a virus with an incubation period of 20 seconds ridiculous ! " After finally seeing 28 DAYS LATER ( Thanks for the video Robin ) my reservations were confirmed , the audience can quite happily accept the concept of raging psychos tearing up the country destroying all in their path but the thought put into small details spoils the film somewhat ! ! ! ! ! SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! Most of the problems lie in Alex Garland's script , it lacks depth , logic and internal continuity . Take for example the line where Selena tells Jim that the apocalypse was caused by something in the blood . How would she know this ? This is an example of characters knowing what's happening because the screenwriter does which is a mistake on Alex Garland's part . The reverse is also very true with characters being unable to work out things the audience has . Before seeing the movie I did have online conversations on the message board that a virus that takes 20 seconds to turn people into zombies wouldn't be able to spread world wide , indeed this is central to the plot and Sgt Farrell does state that " How does the infection spread across the oceans , mountains and rivers ? " and yet he's the only character in the story to draw this very obvious conclusion that only mainland Britain has been struck by rage . It would have been far less obvious if Selena and others had been totally ignorant as to the mechanics of infection As for the gaps in logic ask yourself this : If the soldiers want to keep Selena and Hannah as sex slaves why didn't they murder Jim as soon as they saw him ? I guess if they did we wouldn't have a story , but the screenplay is full of these niggling problems , like Jones and Mitchell getting into a fight so Jim can escape or West and Davies going to the barricade to kill Jim when they've got everything they need ( ie Selena and Hannah ) at the house . There's no reason for the soldiers to care about killing JimI also had a problem with the characterisation . Selena is shown as being tough as nails and totally ruthless at the start of the story and then needs rescuing by Jim at the end . Compare her to characters in say a John Christopher story where the protagonist starts off as middle class and mild mannered and ends up having to kill to survive . This is what happens to Jim but it seems a totally ridiculous character arc as he wipes out West's platoon . Jim has spent a month in a coma , has no military experience and manages to beat some squaddies who not only managed to survive mass attacks of the infected but had considerable battle experience before rage . I'm telling you Saddam must be kicking himself about not recruiting any bicycle couriers into the Iraqi army I will absolve Garland of any blame for the bizarre upbeat ending where Jim survives a bullet wound to the stomach and lives happily ever after with Selena and Hannah since the studio demanded a happy ending for their audience . Let's be honest here , the only ending that would have made sense is Jim dying and the two girls facing an uncertain future with rage turning into a pandemic holocaust I don't want to give the impression that I hated 28 DAYS LATER . I liked it a lot and will praise director Danny Boyle for making a tense and often very thrilling film . The use of digital video succeeds and the cinematography is breath taking especially the scenes set at the rain drenched roadblock where you can almost see every single raindrop falling pass the screen . The casting is somewhat uneven ( The French foreign legion isn't that cosmopolitan never mind the British army ) but mention must go to Ricci Harnett as Cpl Mitchell who plays one of cinema's most memorable thugs in a long time , Leo Bill might give an irritating performance as Jones but that's the way he's written , Naomie Harris is impressive where she's not let down by the script and the only real disappointment is Christopher Ecclestone as Major West who seems slightly miscast I gave 28 DAYS LATER but to be honest this should have been so much better . One can't help thinking Boyle would have been better off filming an adaptation of John Christopher's THE DEATH OF GRASS . As it stands it's a very good example of if a film is good it's because of the director . If it's bad it's because of the screenwriter
One Of Costner's Best Films	It's probably well known that Kevin Costner once had Republican party sympathies , something that wasn't to fashionable in the Hollywood of the late 80s / early 90s . What might not be so well known is that he switched his allegiance to the environmentalists / greens at the turn of the millennium . This perhaps isn't so surprising because if you watch a film either directed by or starring Costner there always seems to be a running theme of the characters existing in a wilderness away from civilisation such as DANCES WITH WOLVES , PRINCE OF THIEVES and WATERWORLD alongside the philosophy that guns don't kill people , people kill people , or to be more accurate bad people kill people then good people kill bad people as seen in THE UNTOUCHABLES and THE POSTMAN with PRINCE OF THIEVES and WATERWORLD also coming into this category also OPEN RANGE continues this Costner philosophy as we're shown men or horseback against a breath taking panorama of the untouched American wilderness . You can't help thinking that Costner would like nothing better to see the end of industrialisation and when landscapes are this remote and beautiful who can blame him . The story itself may be rather old fashioned almost in the vein of John Wayne but that doesn't stop it from being the best film with Kevin Costner for a very long time . The cinematography helps of course but the director's best idea was to employ Robert Duvall as co-lead Boss Spearman . Duvall of course is the type of very rare actor who can make a shopping list come alive and Michael Gambon is memorable as bad guy Denton Baxter Some people might be put off by the fact that it stars and was directed by Costner and therefore expected a three and a half hour epic about nothing in particular . I also had these reservations but was glad I saw this . Duvall's performance and the bloody shoot out at the end had a lot to do with my positive opinion
Entertaining	THE STING can't be described as a masterwork of cinema but that's not really its intention . It's sole agenda is to entertain and it succeeds . Director George Roy Hill brings a heavily stylised almost comic book form to the movie . Scott Joplin ragtime score is extremely memorable but the best aspect to the film is the cast , Newman , Redford and Shaw make a good team and it's sad they didn't make more films together . Please Mr Hollywood Producer do NOT do a remake with George Clooney and Brad Pitt . David S Ward's script is good but it's not flawless since it contains one subplot too many ( The subplot about Doyle Lonnegan hiring a top hitman ) which is basically unnecessary and disposable . All in all a very entertaining film
Certainly Interesting	LOST IN LA MANCHA may not be in the same league as HEARTS OF DARKNESS ( The documentary that gives the inside story of the making of APOCALYPSE NOW ) but it's certainly entertaining and stands as a very good example of how not to produce a movie . I may make myself unpopular for saying this but didn't the people involved deserve everything they got ? Terry Gilliam decides he's going to direct a movie called THE MAN WHO KILLED DON QUIXOTE , it's going to feature windmills , giants and some old self deluded bloke from Spain . Perhaps not the greatest plot for a movie but Johnny Depp is cast as the eponymous man so I guess Gilliam got that bit right since Depp has massive box office appeal . With hindsight that's the only thing Gilliam has done right because he soon finds himself having to use what is probably the worst sound stage in Europe since it's the only one available . Things move from bad to worse when Gilliam finds himself with no one to play Don Quixote on the first day of filming and when they finally cast the actor in the part they realise that the only place that location filming can take place is being used by NATO aircraft for training exercises . It's kind of difficult to have a story set in the 16th century when F-16s are flying over head all day . Things move from worse to even worse when a lot of equipment floats away in a flash flood . What else can go wrong you ask ? This is highly entertaining but no one on the production deserves any sympathy . Didn't the producer research what sound stages would be available during filming ? Didn't he research locations and find one that wasn't being used by NATO or suffered from flash floods ? Couldn't he have cast an elderly actor ( A senor citizen ? ) as Quixoite before shooting was due to begin ? These are the faults of the producer rather than the director but Gilliam isn't entirely blameless himself but perhaps his major fault is that he's too much of a nice guy , he never gets angry and treats every setback with a wry smile which isn't perhaps an attribute for a movie director , compare his manner with Francis Ford Coppola while making APOCALYPSE NOW . As I said this is a perfect example - And a very entertaining one too - on how not to make a movie
Entertaining But Rather Flawed And Slightly Dated	When it was released in 1991 GMTV film reviewer Paul Gambacini described Scorsese's CAPE FEAR as " being ham directed " . This is yet more evidence that if you want to be a film reviewer it's not what you know , it's who you know . CAPE FEAR isn't a film that suffers from " ham directing " , it's a film that is rather formalist and suffers from what David Bordwell describes as " intensified continuity " . If you're unfamiliar with the term then please look it up and Scorsese wasn't the only American director using the technique because many other directors especially Oliver Stone were doing exactly the same thing in the early 1990s . If Scorsese is to be criticised for doing this then the entire American film industry is equally guilty If there is a problem with intensified continuity it's that most directors quickly abandoned it with the exception of Oliver Stone which meant he was destined to cinematic obscurity . Watching these type of films in 2007 means they appear rather dated , similar in some ways to watching films from the mid 1980s where you realise the most important aspect is the soundtrackCAPE FEAR is a fairly entertaining movie but can't be described as a Scorsese masterpiece . DeNiro gives a rather OTT performance as Max Cady , so much so that you find yourself thinking of him as a comic book monster rather than as a real life character . Interestingly enough Scorsese is a director who can be described as misogynistic but by far the two best performances are by Lang and Lewis The one problem I have with the movie is that it mainly ignores the inadequacy of the law when it comes to stalking . Check the scene where Bowden explains to Lt Elgart that Cady hasn't " been trespassing exactly - Well what exactly ? " . The film would have worked much better and would undoubtedly have been much more credible if this angle had been developed more , but credibility has been sacrificed for entertainment and whilst not a heavy criticism it does make for a flawed movie
Get Off Your Horse And Watch This Film	I often criticise westerns because they bare no reality on what really happened in the wild west . Unlike the Hollywood version most gunslingers met their end after getting shot in the back , they never stood in the middle of the street telling their opponent to draw , this is a myth that only happened in Hollywood movies , and WESTWORLD is an enjoyable celebration of this myth where ( Rich ) holidaymakers can spend ( For $1000 a day ) their holiday drawing their guns on gunslingers , taking part in bar room brawls and visiting ladies of ill repute and it's really fun to watch people play up to all the wild west cliches in a film that's entertaining , funny and a little bit scary too . As good as WESTWORLD is as entertainment it rather flawed . James Brolin and Yul Brynner are fair in their roles but Richard Benjamin is very wooden as Peter Martin . Imagine you're being chased by an unstoppable killing machine ( And had paid one thousand dollars a day for the privilege ! ) you'd be terrified , or at least upset that you're not getting value for money , but Benjamin doesn't seem to convey enough fear . It should also be pointed out that the more you think about WESTWORLD the more it falls apart , and another thing I notice the more I watch it is that you see nothing of Roman World but that theme park probably consists of middle aged housewives taking part in Roman orgies so on second thoughts maybe it's just as well we learn nothing about the place So if you get the chance watch WESTWORLD and make sure you don't think about it
It Made Me Laugh	The only problem I have with the Laurel and Hardy shorts is that the memory cheats a little , that is watching many many years after I first saw them as a child they're not as funny as I first remembered due to the technical aspects of film making of the time . The shorts are rather stagey , slightly stilted . But if you can forgive that you'll have no problem enjoying Stan and Ollie . And I consider MURDER CASE to be just about the best L & H short . Classic moments are the bat hidden in the bed sheet , the picture illuminated on the wall , and the tailors dummy , scenes that had me laughing out loud . The only weak point is - as many reviewers have noted - the cop out ending which I suppose may have been fresh in 1930 but has been done to death by too many lazy writers since then
One Of The Better Films To Have Been Produced In Scotland	SMALL FACES is a Scottish film set in Glasgow during the late 1960s and follows the lives of three brothers from the Maclean family : Bobby a member of the Glen Gang , Alan who has ambitions of going to art school and Lex a thirteen year old boy and like the character of Taylor in PLATOON where the main character finds himself being split between the violent pragmatism of Barnes and the humanity of Elias young Lex is split between what brother makes the better role model It's a complex tale that is character driven which explains why none of the comments on this page has really gone in to the plot details and if you're expecting a violent tale with youths slashing each other with razors every five minutes then you'll be disappointed . There is violence of course and some people may bleat that it lives up to the " Glesga keelie " stereotype but I disagree and it's interesting to note that the traditional battle lines of Glasgow gangs being drawn from their ethnic background ( Irish Catholic and Scottish Protestants ) is never discussed . Despite having a small budget director Gillies MacKinnon makes the most of what he's got and watch the scenes where characters view Tongland ( Is it the notorious Gorbals ? ) which resembles a bleak alien city . The cast are uniformly excellent with veterans like Clare Higgins and Ian McElhinney appearing alongside up and coming Scottish actors like Kevin McKidd and Laura Fraser but the two best performances are by Iain Robertson as Lex and Garry Sweeney as gang leader Charlie Sloan which is just as well since most of the movie rests or falls on these two characters , though strangely neither young actor has gone on to have a sparkling career which is a pity
I Won't Mention That Other Movie . . .	. . . You know the one I'm talking about , the one with Tom Cruise OMG this review is impossible without mentioning VANILLA SKY , I mean not only is it a remake of ABRE LOS OJO but it's almost scene for scene the exact same movie , in fact since it's got Penelope Cruz in the exact same role as the original you can't even say VANILLA SKY is the same movie with an entirely different cast ! That's the problem with having seen the remake first because it's very difficult to comment on ABRE LOS OJOS because I knew exactly where the movie was heading when Cesar stepped out of his car and surveyed the empty city scape at the start of the movie . This familiarity of the story ruined the movie for me . If only I'd seen this before Hollywood remade it ! Strangely enough Channel 4 broadcast this the night before they broadcast VANILLA SKY and it's obvious that the strengths of the Alejandro Amenaber original have become weaknesses in Crowe's remake . Eduardo Noriega might not be a film star but he is an actor , when watching him play Cesar he is Cesar . When watching Cruise play David you're aware of a movie star playing a disfigured character , his casting against type makes the audience aware that despite the shock revelation at the end it's only a movie . Amenaber thankfully doesn't drown the audience with pop culture references every five seconds unlike Crowe and because of this the audience can concentrate on the mind bending but totally rewarding plot a lot more Incidentally I awarded this movie the same mark as I gave the remake . If I saw the prior film first I would have almost certainly have given it a higher mark while possibly giving VANILLA SKY a lower one
Perceptions Change	Despite being set in the 1970s I couldn't help noticing that Robert Shaw's Mossad agent Kabakov is shown as being a violent ruthless cold blooded killer who's almost as bad as the terrorists he's hunting . This goes slightly against the common perception in much of the world at the time of Israelis being heroic and plucky freedom fighters striving to defeat terrorism and it should be remembered Israel carried out the legendary raid on Entebbe the year before . It wasn't untill Israel's invasion of Lebanon in 1982 that this perception changed towards the state of Israel somewhat . Well I suppose the producers should be congratulated on bringing ambiguity to the story . Likewise the " villain " Lander is a terrorist motivated by the fact that his country has turned his back on him . Sent to fight people in South East Asia he was shot down and left to rot in a North Vietnamese POW camp and on returning home from the most dirty and needless war of the 20th century he finds that even his own wife has forgotten about him . The point being that terrorists are never born but made . BLACK SUNDAY is a very good political thriller full of good but often violent action scenes which means it's not a film for everyone . Likewise watching this film in the 21st century which involves a plot to kill tens of thousands of innocent people at a public event means many viewers will be uneasy watching this . Sometimes you can take a plot and make it a little too realistic
Some Very Good Acting Makes The Film Compelling	The career of Rod Steiger can be used as a warning that quantity is inferior to quality . He might have appeared in ON THE WATERFRONT , DR ZHIVAGO , and THE SERGEANT but he also appeared in some awful crap like THE AMITYVILLE HORROR , THE KINDRED , MODERN VAMPIRES and THE LAST PRODUCER . In fact the only other actor I can think of who has a similar shocking inconsistency of roles is Robert DeNiro , and neither actor can use money as an excuse for appearing in so many turkeys since their worst roles happened at the end of their careers I would rate THE PAWNBROKER as Steiger's best all time performance . He might have won the Oscar for best actor for IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT but we see the zenith of his career in this film . Steiger is Sol Nazerman , holocaust survivor now running a pawnbroker shop in New York City amongst a lot of seedy untrustworthy characters . Jews are history's great survivors but because of the rest of humanity's inhumanity towards the Jew it seems to have left scars on their psyche - Very suspicious by nature and with a not very friendly mannerism Steiger captures this survivors persona perfectly . There's little to add to this . Method acting at its most perfect If there's a problem with the film it's that it doesn't seem very cinematic . It could be the original novel by Edward Lewis Wallant , or it could be the way the novel is adapted to screen , or it could be to do with director Sidney Lumet . Looking at Lumet's resume I'm struck at how much of the director's work is based on stage plays : 12 ANGRY MEN , THE HILL , THE OFFENCE , this movie isn't but it certainly feels like it was culled from the theatre with its limited set of ( Interior ) locations and the use of close up shots of characters faces . It's not much of a problem since it emphasises the performances and I can't repeat enough how good Rod Steiger is , but the directing isn't as superb as Lumet's earlier 12 ANGRY MEN
Strange Drama Inspired By A True Life Case	ROPE is possibly the strangest film made by Alfred Hitchcock . Inspired by the real life case of Leopold and Loeb the film is shot in real time and gives the impression that it was shot in one continuous take , but I'm not sure if it's one of the director's best films . The problem is that ROPE is a stage play and is in no way cinematic hence we have the idiosyncratic reasons why great plays don't make great movies . The characters are somewhat difficult to believe in . Think about it - Would the arrogant Brandon really have involved the wimpish Phillip in the murder ? All Phillip does is bleat and whine and moan , he's certainly not the type of person you'd want as an accomplice to murder is he ? And would anyone really want to include a third party ( ie Rupert Cadell ) to their plans . Being hubristic is one thing as is understanding 19th century philosophy on the " superman " but would any murderer be stupid enough to believe anyone would understand their crime without turning them in ? Of course these flaws are to do with the writer of the original play and the director is blameless . The only real fault of Hitchcock is an artistic one - He's made a real time play into a movie so ROPE isn't a movie you're going to watch over and over again , but it's well acted and compelling enough to earn from this commentator
Very Good In Places , Rather Poor In Other Places	Jake Hoyt teams up with Alonzo Harris . Hoyt is a newbie plains clothes undercover cop while Harris has been in the job for years and both men are chalk and cheese where personality is concerned . We've seen this sort of scenario umpteen times in other buddy movies , only thing is this usually only happens in comedy dramas and if you're tuning into TRAINING DAY for some light hearted laughs you're going to be very disappointed ! ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! ! TRAINING DAY is a grim gritty hard hitting drama , the sort of movie Hollywood rarely makes these days with the first half being a very compelling intelligent movie that really holds your attention . Unfortunately about half way through there's a slightly ridiculous plot twist that threatens to sink the whole movie and had me begging the question " Why on earth would Harris and his corrupt buddies invite Hoyt along to do a job with them " ? I mean Harris has only known his partner for a few hours at the most while the other cops don't know him at all so why would they trust Hoyt to keep his mouth shut ? I guess that's to show how evil Harris is and how morally upstanding Hoyt is at the climax , another bit I found faintly ridiculous . I mean if you're a home boy would you side with a corrupt black cop who'd let you walk away from a crime if the price was right or would you side with an untouchable white cop who will see justice done at any price ? Yeah that's what I thought too . I don't want anyone picking me up wrong thinking I hate this film because I don't , it's very well acted by all the cast and even after the plot twist halfway through it still held my attention , especially when Hoyt is in the latinos ' house . It's just that it seemed the studio decided to treat the audience as fools at the last moment which is a common fault with Hollywood movies for the last few years . I was going to give TRAINING DAY up untill the halfway point , so overall the movie gets Seeing as everyone else has brought up the subject of who deserved the oscar I will say some days I think Washington deserved it while some days I think Crowe deserved it , but 2001 wasn't a vintage year for performances and if the Oscar voters had put Jim Broadbent in the best actor category he would have deserved to have won it for IRIS
I laughed Out Loud . . .	. . . But then I do have a highly developed sense of humour . Did I tell you about the time when I was sitting at the breakfast table of the 2002 Greenpeace national skillshare conferance and the conversation got around to gay policemen ? Maybe some other time It probably won't come as much of a surprise that the people who didn't like my sense of humour on that morning will detest the humour of Chris Morris . Okay I think he's over rated myself and he often shoots himself in the foot by going out to shock rather than going out to make people laugh but with MY WRONGS 8245-8249 AND 117 Morris has got the balance right . If you're some bleeding heart do-gooder you will find this grotesque , shocking and a blight upon the human race . If you're an intelligent human being you might just laugh out loud at the scene on the bus , the scene at the park and the scene in the church . I know I did and I also know it's not supposed to be a case study of mental illness so please watch it in the spirit as it was intended , and I hope to see more from Morris in the future
Entertaining Despite The Novelty And Standard Script	The thing that struck me about FINAL FANTASY is how unoriginal the script is : A female scientist is saved from an alien menace by a mixed sex multi ethnic military team . There's a couple of close scrapes followed by some techno babble and obvious exposition about saving Planet Earth with a blatant baddie on the human side a closed mind military type and all the good humans open minded scientists . There's some flirting with lines like " Get yourself a girlfriend " " I'm working on that " before the heroes take part in a very spectacular climax . It sounds like every Sci-Fi block buster ever made in the last 20 years and to be honest I was reminded of both ALIENS and STARSHIP TROOPERS more than a few times But FINAL FANTASY wasn't produced or marketed as a groundbreaking plot - It was marketed as a groundbreaking CGI movie , and I thought as entertainment it succeeded in pleasing this viewer . Of course movies with vast amounts of CGI like the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy only work when you don't realize you're watching CGI and in this respect FINAL FANTASY is a failure and it's not helped by the characters voiced by James Woods and Donald Sutherland looking nothing like the two actors ( Did anyone else think Sutherland's scientist looked exactly like Robert Englund ? ) though to be fair at least the dialog was synchronised with the animated mouths and the sound editing and sound effects are superb and despite everything it is
Entertaining But Badly Paced	I've never been a massive fan of the Indiana Jones movies so forgive me when I say I don't believe this movie really belongs in the mid section of the IMDb top 250 movies because it's no masterpiece of cinema As good old fashioned entertainment it certainly succeeds but as a great movie it's flawed . Despite an attempt to bring character development to the eponymous character at the start of the movie the screenplay by Jeffrey Boam quickly becomes a merger between the first two movies with a secret cult protecting a sacred object and Nazis wanting to get their hands on it . There is a subplot featuring Nazi traitors but when the traitors are revealed about 50 minutes into the running time it means there's nowhere else for the story to go hence the story becomes bogged down in a long set piece involving a Nazi ubertank To be fair the positives outweigh the negatives and it's good to see Sean Connery in a blockbuster where his presence lends weight . In fact just think how much worse this movie could have been without the British talent in front of the camera , Julien Glover is impressive and even John Rhys Davies makes an impact . We also have scenes of violence that are fun without becoming too explicit which is my major gripe with RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK which probably makes this sequel the best in the series even though it's not a truly great film I think it'd be a mistake to continue the series ala STAR WARS though
The One Set In The Sawmill	One thing that puzzles me is how many of these L & H shorts feature absolutely no plot but I never seem to notice this because I'm too busy laughing . BUSY BODIES is set in a sawmill but that's it , there's no central plot , just a series of incidents which show the genius of Stan and Ollie . This is certainly one of the best shorts because it showcases the duo at their most typical , Ollie gets gets hit over the head by falling objects while Stan turns to the camera and shrugs . There's also a fight scene that had me in stiches , okay I knew what the pay off was going to be as soon as Stan said " Cigar " but you'd need to be crippled by clinical depression not to surpress a smile at this A seventy year old black and white film with no plot and it made me laugh . I can't think of a better compliment
I Enjoyed It First Time But It Doesn't Hold Up To Repeated Viewing	When ID4 was released I certainly didn't think it was a movie I'd be going out of my way to see due to its reputation as being overly jingoistic along with being a shallow story with no substance so I waited to catch it on network TV and when I did I was fairly blown away by its quality . The first half of the movie is nail biting as whole cities across the globe are vapourised by the invaders who can't be stopped and it's not often we get a blockbuster that starts off in such a pessimistic manner . As for the " American nationalism " that some people hated it for I suggest you avoid watching every American war movie that doesn't have Sam Fuller in the credits . Here is a movie that only celebrates the Utopian dream of multi racialism in America ( Unfortunately that's all it is in reality - a dream ) but also the international community where Arabs , Israelis and the RAF can all join together to take on the alien menace While the multi ethnic / international idealism holds up to repeated viewing I'm afraid other aspects do not . I saw ID4 again tonight about five years after I first saw it and I'm sorry to say that it was nowhere as good as I remembered it . Yes the first half is rather bleak and pessimistic and what could been a very serious , intelligent movie that mixes downbeat drama with commercial appeal starts to shoot itself in the foot in the second half . I've no idea how I noticed this on first viewing but the dialogue is rather bad while the plotting is ridiculous . The president of the United States leads the remnants of the USAF into battle ! You might be shocked to know that allegedly Bill Clinton thought President Whitmore was based on him ! so goodness knows what Dubya thought about Bill Pulman's performance . I guess the major problem is that by making the aliens so invincible the screenwriters have painted themselves into a corner to how humanity can overcome the invaders , I mean when Will Smith and Jeff Goldblum entered the mother ship I was expecting the Colonel from MONTY PYTHON to jump out and say " Stop this at once this film is getting far too silly " There is another slight problem that wouldn't appear apparent in 1996 but is noticeable in 2005 and that is the breath taking advance of special effects . Nowadays it's nearly impossible to watch a film and decide what is a special effect and what is real . I'm afraid that in many action sequences like the F-16s attacking the alien ship you are aware that blue screen projection and CGI explosions are being used , it's not bad enough to condemn the film of course and at the time these sequences must have seemed awesome but the FX haven't stood the test of time very well Okay I'm in a charitable mood and I'm giving this movie . It's a film of two halves with the doom laden first half easily beating the second in terms of tension and drama . It's a great pity the producers couldn't keep up the momentum
Good Film But No Classic Epic	I liked ENEMY AT THE GATES , but its flaws are very obvious . First of all is Rachel Weisz who makes a very unconvincing Soviet heroine with a very distracting upper class English accent , I guess this is to make the film more marketable to a potential female audience along with the inclusion of a love triangle which is slightly unnecessary and underdeveloped ( Witness the scene where it looks like Danilov is going to have the hero arrested as an enemy of the state and this is never followed up ? ) and did we really need to have the inclusion of a sex scene ? These small problems spoil the film somewhat and stops it becoming a classic epicNot to be negative I really did like this film for two reasons . First up is the portrayal of snipers . Once upon a time snipers were considered as being amongst an army's bravest most competant warriors . This is still true today of course but media attention via such conflicts in Northern Ireland , the Balkans and the middle east and even recent events in America means " Sniper " is a word people associate with cold hearted murdering thugs and EATG rightly dispells this modern day myth . Secondly EATG shows us all something that is rarely seen to a western audience and that is the horror of the Eastern front during the Second world war . Hollywood would have us believe America won the second world war single handed but it was mainly the courage and sacrifice of the citizens of the USSR that was the major factor in the defeat of Hitler . The Soviet Union lost 30 million people during the war ( One in six of its citizens ) and just as many died through Stalin as through Hitler , something that is not forgotten by this film . All in all a good film but one that is inferior to CROSS OF IRON a film that I absolutely adore and consider to be the best film to feature the second world war as its backdrop
Well Made But Too Complex To Be Entirely Cinematic	The story starts with the body of American Adrien Pyle , a medical specialist , being found in a river in Saigon . He has been stabbed to death and London Times journalist Thomas Fowler recounts to the authorities how he knew the man TQE is a very strange film to comment on simply because I get the feeling that it is based on a very complex political novel by Graham Greene and it's interesting to note how many people on this page have commentated on how well or how badly it has been adapted to screen . It's also interesting to note that it was filmed in the spring of 2001 when George Bush's " war on terrorism " had not happened which clouds the issue more . People on the message boards have written many political threads to tie in with this but it's very interesting that Greene's original novel was written several years before Lyndon B Johnson sent combat troops to South East Asia , so Greene is criticisng American foreign policy in general and an intelligent , cogent way , not so much jumping on the fashionable bandwagon with Michael Moore , John Pilger and George Monbiot so I guess for that he deserves some credit As a film what makes it so successful is with the casting . Michael Caine as we all know is a living legend and the fact that he has appeared in so many awful movies simply for the money while still retaining prestigious star quality speaks volumes for his talent and as you might expect in this type of role he's superb . What is even more amazing than Caine's performance is that of Brendan Fraser's as Adrien Pyle . I've just remembered how good he was in GODS AND MONSTERS and he's equally as good here as a man who's not what he seems to be . One can't help thinking how well he'd be regarded as an actor if he'd decided to skip THE MUMMY films which unfortunately seems to have prematurely killed his career . Certainly I wasn't reminded of Rick O'Connel while watching this Where the film falters is - Again - where it shows its literary roots . There's no way you can confuse a Graham Greene novel with a Harold Robbins one , but there's maybe too much of a romantic subplot which gets in the way of the real story and you find your self questioning as to what the main story . Is it the political one or the love triangle ?
Fairly Good Bond Romp	I've noticed that a lot of Bond fans dislike TOMORROW NEVER DIES but I don't really see what the problem is . The plot often borders on the realistic which not something you can say about most Bond films . A media mogul conspiring to cause a war between Britain and China in order to get high news ratings ! Face it , it's not impossible and there's no doubt more than a few journalists in the real world are hoping for a war in Iraq so they can get a reputation as a go getting war correspondent . The production values are excellent , the visuals here are far better and slicker than anything you'd find in the Moore films . But the best aspect is the performance of Jonathan Pryce as Elliot Carver . Pryce is one of Britain's finest and underrated actors and he really shows his joy on screen at being a Bond villain . And anyone who " Slimes " President Clinton is my kind of guy . Having said that however I still preferred GOLDENEYE , and I feel somewhat uneasy that the producers didn't actually realise that this film should be called TOMORROW NEVER LIES
Good Account Despite The Monty Bashing	I loved THE LONGEST DAY when I saw it as a child in the mid 1970s but have gone off it over the years because the characters are more like carichtures rather than real people and the dialogue sounds more like thought processes rather than spoken speech . I guess this is down to Cornelius Ryan not understanding the difference in writing a book and writing a screenplay . The film version of A BRIDGE TOO FAR the second of Ryan's trilogy giving the definitive account of the last year of the war in Europe is superior to THE LONGEST DAY simply because William Goldman has written a superior script than the one Ryan wrote . I can only fault Goldman's script for two things1 ) Some obvious exposition throughout the first 45 minutes , though this probably isn't a fair criticism unlike . . . . . 2 ) The Monty bashing . Along with SAVING PRIVATE RYAN and BAND OF BROTHERS this movie doesn't fail to put the boot into General Bernard Law Montgomery with a bunch of German Generals stating " Not even Eisenhower would be stupid enough to use Montgomery " and you do get the impression some people who get their history via war films will quickly come to the conclusion that Monty was the worst commander in human military history , never mind British military history . If Monty had a fault - And the only time it showed itself was during Operation MarketGarden - it was that he was too cautious but it should be remembered that he spent several years fighting on the Western front during the first world war . The likes of Patton , McArthur and future US president Harry S Trumann also fought in that conflict but America didn't enter WW1 until the spring 1917 and didn't contribute to any significant fighting until almost a year later . Unlike the British the future American commanders didn't experience a slaughter house like the Somme which had a profound effect of on Monty's psyche . It should also be remembered that no Western leader was better for turning a holding action into an offensive as seen at El Alamein and there was no better Western leader than Monty for a defensive holding action as seen at operation Goodwood in June 1944 . The problem with operation MarketGarden was logistics , intelligence reports , communications and just plain bad luck , not leadershipThat criticism aside Goldman ' script is a good one . Of course some facts and figures have been changed or omitted but the script does point out that great courage was shown by both sides and Goldman must be congratulated for including a scene where a Waffen SS trooper dies in a brave but vain attempt to save his commanding officer who is burning to death . The Waffen SS committed countless atrocities during the war but they were Nazi Germany's elite fighting force also capable of extreme bravery under fire so it's good to see a more balanced view of history , something not seen in more critically aclaimed productions like BAND OF BROTHERS and SAVING PRIVATE RYANIt's a shame A BRIDGE TOO FAR didn't do all that well at the box office or receive the critical acclaim it deserved , but STAR WARS came out at the same time thereby destroying the popularity of historical blockbusters with all star casts . It should also be pointed out that the anti-war sentiments of the film are surpassed by Vietnam movies like APOCALYPSE NOW and PLATOON but how do you make an anti-war film featuring the second world war as a backdrop unless you're a German ? I remember talking to my schoolmates in 1982 after this was shown on TV the previous night and we all agreed at the time this was the best war movie ever made . Looking back now it's not , but it's still a very good account of men in battleFootnote : Check out Ryan's book THE LAST BATTLE , the final - And best - book in the trilogy that tells of the last months of the second world war
A Simple Plot . . . .	. . . . But a very good one even if it does owe its premise to SHALLOW GRAVE . Unlike the British movie Scott B Smith's script is very well developed and contains sympathetic characters and is far better paced in a tale of how money is the root of all evil . In fact there's very little I can criticise about the screenplay except for one thing : If someone is killed in an accident surely they'd be an autopsy in which case the cause of death would be established as not being from an accident . Am I right ? Regardless this is a very intelligent thriller which led me to ask why director Sam Raimi doesn't make more human dramas like this one
What Sad Creatures	I'm a DOCTOR WHO fan and being a DOCTOR WHO fan often means making negative and sometimes downright nasty comments on least liked eras of the show . I hate the era of the mid to late 1980s and quite happily boot the boot into the series made between 1985-89 . In short being a fan of the show is like being a football supporter who spends his weekends at matches shouting for the manager to be sacked . There , that's what it's like to be a DOCTOR WHO fan . What we don't do is dress up as Sontaran battle fleet commanders , or learn the Sea Devil dialect , and under no circumstances do we wish to be tarred with the same brush as STAR TREK fans . Why ? Well watch TREKKIES to find out what I mean . TREKKIES was produced as a documentary but it turned out to be the biggest unintentional laugh-fest I've ever seen . Are we expected to swallow that STAR TREK fans are normal intelligent people ? Okay then let's take a look at these normal intelligent people . . . . . . The first person to be interviewed is a transvestite trekkie , and seeing as he / she is only filmed in extreme close up I'm just curious as to what he / she was wearing at the time . I've got a suspicion he / she was wearing one of these sexy little mini dresses from the original show . I hope he / she shaved her / his legsThe dentist whose wife and children are dressed in ST uniforms and whose dental surgery is decked out as a ST shrine called " The Starship Dentalprise " The Greenstiens who spend every day dressed in their USS Enterprise uniforms and who don't have any children ( Did anyone faint in surprise upon knowing this ? ) but have a poodle also dressed up in a ST uniform . It goes without saying it's the dog I feel sorry forA bunch of people dressed as Klingons order their lunch in a klingon dialect . The voice over informs us they do a lot of " community service " ( Probably a euphamism for work fare - Would you give them a job ? ) and that they " Visit sick children in hospital " . I've got to confess that if I had a child in hospital I'd want them to meet klingons as much as I'd want them to meet Victor Salva or Michael JacksonThe James Doohan anecdote of the suicidal fan . This isn't as heartwarming as has been made out . In fact when Scotty finishes with the line " She wasn't getting the help she needed " I shouted out " None of the people I've seen so far are getting the help they need " . This brings me to the saddest fan of the lot who is the lad who owned Captain Pike's life support / travel machine which resembles a headless Dalek . The fan turns up at an electrical store to buy some batteries and stuff only to get a weird reaction from the store worker who eyes dart from right to left very suspiciously and who has a " WTF " expression plastered all over his face . The reason for this attitude is explained when the fan leaves the store in the same transport he arrived in , yes that's right he came in the Captain Pike life support / transport machine and now drives off at 2 mph with his gormless face sticking out of the transporter . I can't wait to see TREKKIES 2
Rather Strange Short	In many ways DIRTY WORK is a predictable L & H short on the surface with the boys going to sweep someone's chimney . Guess what happens next ? That's right slapstick at its most sucessful ensues . But there's one or two things that seem untypical . Ollie for example is very unlikable , he's arrogant , he's rude , and not only to Stan look at the way he addresses the servant with " HEY YOU " and takes a childish huff very easily with his catchphrase being " I have nothing to say " . In short Ollie plays a bully in a very unlikable way and I much prefer to see him to play the arrogant coward where he's always at his funniestDIRTY WORK also lacks the reportary regulars of the other L & H shorts like Finlayson , Long , Busch and Housman which means when we switch to the mad scientist plotline there's a slightly creepy atmosphere that jars with the rest of the movie Having said that this is still a good short mainly down to Stan . Also watch out for a scene featuring a fish . Many jokes / plots from L & H feature fish and this is another one
Threadbare Plot But Engaging Enough	Malcolm Hulke was the greatest writer on the classic show in my opinion and it was he who said " when you've got the series stuck on Earth this only allows two plots : invasion from outer space or mad scientist " . Maybe that's why I've not been too keen on the rather Earth bound format of Nu-Who ? The BBC has pulled out all the stops with the visual effects in this resurrection but for some strange reason RTD thinks council housing estates and the like are somewhat exotic . What's wrong with visiting planets that don't look like a quarry in Surrey ? With a title like The Lazarus Experiment you know exactly what you're going to get in advance - a mad scientist trying to change the laws of nature . And this is exactly what happens in a plot rather similar to THE FLY or THE QUATERMASS EXPERIMENT . Stephen Greenhorn's script is rather threadbare but he does write some dramatic dialogue between Lazarus and the Doctor and Mark Gatiss does give a very good performance as the doomed eponymous victim / villain . By no means a classic episode this is still fairly engaging stuff for casual viewers and die hard fans alike
Jacobi Is A Class Act	Utopia is a strange beast . It is in effect the start of of a three parts 45 minute story , equivalent to six episodes of the classic series . However re-watching it again you may become aware of the flaws of RTD vision of DOCTOR WHO . It's set on an alien planet which is only to be welcomed , but unfortunately it's quite literally a stone quarry in England something the classic series suffered from . Surely with so much technology available to the show we should be seeing something more impressive . Similarly why is said quarry full of extras from MAD MAX ? The fact that Neil Marshall's film DOOMSDAY failed says a lot by having every post apocalypse scenario populated by butch psychopaths running around in leather - it shows a complete lack of imagination . It also suffers from a lack of internal logic . We're told hat " There hasn't been an university for a thousand years " but somehow the refugees have trucks and firearm available to them . Surely you'd have university standard engineers etc in order to build and maintain such things ? The return of Capatain Jack may be well received by gay men and heterosexual women in the audience but it's obvious he's being used as a plot device by RTD in order to drive the plot forward , a plot that is very threadbare when you examine it There is a massive plus though and that is the casting of Sir Derek Jacobi as Professor Yana . Jacobi gives without doubt the most memorable of a guest on Nu-Who . It's poignant , moving and totally touching . The only problem is that when he's on screen you start to notice the lack of presence by the rest of the cast . It's somewhat painful to realise what a great Doctor he would have been if a previous producer had cast him in the 1980s . Jacobi's performance makes up for the episode's numerous flaws and makes me give Utopia
Haunting Thriller	I thought THE GIFT was going to be another of those clichéd tales involving a fortune teller , but as soon as the credits revealed that the director was the underrated Sam Raimi I suddenly started hoping that this was going to be a good film and my expectations were more than satisfied . Raimi is probably best known for his SPIDERMAN blockbuster and the EVIL DEAD films , but I can't help thinking he's far better suited to human dramas like this film and A SIMPLE PLAN . Part human drama on being an outsider , part court room drama , part whodunnit and part supernatural mystery THE GIFT could have ended up as an unfocused mess but Raimi pulls it off . A word too for Raimi's handling of the cast , all the performances are very good . As you'd expect from such a talented actress Cate Blanchet is excellent , but Keannu Reeves is a shock as a redneck scum bag . I won't go so far as to say he steals the show but as a confirmed Reeves hater I found his performance totally convincing . Praise indeed In terms of pace , intelligence and characterisation Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson have written a very good script , but I have one genuine complaint regarding forensics . In the court scenes evidence is presented , but there is nothing regarding forensic evidence which does lead to a fairly big plot hole . If I remember correctly A SIMPLE PLAN also suffers slightly from the screenwriter not doing his homework regarding forensics . But I suppose I can forgive this because of a haunting and touching shock twist at the end . If you've seen THE GIFT you'll know what I'm talking about , if you haven't then I won't spoil it for you . The only problem with the twist is that after you've seen it the second or third time it's not as moving or touching as it was the first time
Very Cheeky Short Film	It may appear to be flippant to make a film featuring a drug dealer as the main protagonist but Greg McManus isn't the first person to do so and he won't be the last . Few people complain about the morality of BLOW or TRAINSPOTTING do they ? Despite the amorality ( Can anyone define what is moral ? ) this is a highly entertaining short film that starts with Damien being stopped at customs and having his bag searched . Damien is a drugs courier and he's carrying some stuff with him which means he's looking at several years in prison , possibly sharing a cell with a bad man called Winston who likes to carry out internal examinations on his cell mates with his penis . You can understand why in a split second Damien is silently praying to God The story then flashes back to how Damien got involved in the drugs business and director McManus uses literalism and street theatre where characters address the camera . It turns out hired drugs couriers are called " Mules " so characters on a plane suddenly spout donkey ears ! Damien explains to the audience the dangers of swallowing drugs . Cut to a plane passenger asking a dead body if he's alright This is a cheeky little short that I know a lot of people will find highly distasteful because we're asked to empathise with someone heavily involved in the drug trade , but it's also highly amusing and involving and is certainly one of the better short films I've seen recently
Flawed But Still A Very Good Movie	Russian literature ? I know of it but haven't read too much of it . From what I'm told Tolstoy , Dostoyevski et al don't exactly make for good bed time reading . I guess Boris Pasternak keeps up this tradition with his novel DOCTOR ZHIVAGO being a bit too top heavy with characters and incidents and it's this that has led to many critics putting the boot into the film on its initial release You could say that David Lean is the natural director for this kind of movie since he gives the word " Epic " a whole new meaning . Unfortunately he's not exactly the type of director who can make a tight script even tighter . The story contains a few too many characters and subplots ( Though this is probably the fault of the studio and screenwriter Robert Block more than Lean's ) that leaves the audience wondering if it's a love story or a history lesson . It should also be pointed out that despite having some very memorable scenes like the frozen Russian bodies in a winter landscape , the train door covered in ice and the White Russian kids being machine gunned you still have to sit through a lot of talky scenes . However I'm going to be kind . DOCTOR ZHIVAGO works best when we're shown the birth of the Soviet Union , a wonderful ideal born out of the carnage from the Great War that ended up becoming in many ways even more terrible than Nazi Germany . Pasha starts by naively handing out seditious pamphlets speaking out against the Tsarist police state and ends up by becoming a communist despot , a good piece of character study showing that when people are given total power it will consume them totally . Oh and let's not forget the cast all of them are convincing but there's too many to mention by name so I'll just point out that Guiness is as superb as always and Stieger is absolutely breath taking , and it's shocking to think this great character actor went onto to star in straight to video films in the 1980s and 90s . Strangely the one performance I will always remember in this film is a cameo by Klaus Kinski as a prisoner on the train ! So a very good film but not a classic mainly down to the fact that has many memorable scenes surrounded by even more stodgy scenes . In other words you'll remember the great parts long after you've forgotten the boring bits which means you'll be slightly disappointed after seeing it again several years later
Why I Liked This Film	In reply to the people who've been coming on this site to ask what all the fuss is about I'll point out that CARLITO'S WAY is an extremely well acted film . One thing I do admire about Pacino the actor is the fact he chooses quality over quantity . Look at De Niro in the past 10 years who's appeared in some absolute crap like WE'RE NO ANGELS , THE FAN , and MEET THE PARENTS which leads me to believe that the star of TAXI DRIVER and RAGING BULL must be another actor called Robert De Niro . Pacino can never to accused of slumming it , and you know you'll always be guaranteed an intense performance from him . Boy does Pacino give it 100 % here . Amazingly Pacino didn't even receive an Oscar nomination for this which is the best performance by an American actor from that year ( So much better than Tom Hanks ) , and he's ably supported by Luiz Guzman and Viggo Mortensen and proving perhaps for the first time what an accomplished actor he is Sean Penn who was also strangely snubbed at the Oscar nominations . The only failure on the acting front is Penelope Ann Miller who plays the love interest
Old Fashioned Entertainment With That Has Little American Involvement	This gets off to a very impressive start where a trio of peasants are about to be executed on trumped up charges and Zorro appears to save the day . Normally I'd be rather uneasy seeing violence portrayed in such a knock about off hand manner but the action scenes in THE MASK OF ZORRO are something of an exception as the swashbuckling hero notches up an unlikely death toll against the military oppressors . It's all done with a panache as the audience are not asked but told to pick sides of good versus evil It's a very black and white morality tale , ridiculously black and white and oh so very old fashioned but I certainly did enjoy the way the story was told . It has a beautifully paced script that's packed with sword fights and acrobatics and amazingly I don't recall one single scene involving CGI . Are you listening Mr Hollywood producer ? You don't need CGI to make a successful Summer blockbuster , all you need are some film makers who know how to tell an enthralling story Perhaps I should point out that two of the lead actors are from Wales and that one is from Spain , along with the director being from New Zealand while the editor and cinematographer are British . Are these facts intertwined with my enjoyment of THE MASK OF ZORRO ? Certainly Hopkins , Zeta-Jones and Banderas bring their characters to life on screen and if big name American stars had been cast I think we'd have a rather inferior movie . Hopefully Hollywood producers can watch this - And LORD OF THE RINGS - and realise too much American involvement in front and behind the cameras can often be a bad thing . It's nice to see a movie like this where one of the main villains is an American
Not The Greatest Comedy But Still Amusing	When I first saw YOUNG FRAKENSTIEN 20 years ago I rolled around the living room in fits of hysterical laughter , something that hasn't happened very often . In fact I would probably that throughout my life this has just got to be the funniest film I have ever seen in my life so when it was broadcast on BBC 2 over the Christmas period I went out of my way to watch it Hmmm . I have to amend my opinion chaps . Not only is it no longer the funniest film I have seen in my entire life I wouldn't even consider it the funniest film from Mel Brooks ( Which will remain now and forever BLAZING SADDLES ) which is a great shame . The problem is that much of the early part of the story seems to drag along with a fairly unfunny broad performance by Gene Wilder and he's not helped by Marty Feldman as Igor , though perhaps the screenplay is to blame since both characters have a running gag of getting their names wrong - " Fronkonsteen " and " Eyegore " . Some of the other failings might be down to the fact that my views of the original Universal horror movies that YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN parody have changed over the years . When I was a teenager I used to love these movies had very fond memories but after seeing them all again over the years I found them lacking and were nowhere as good as I remembered them That said where this film is at its funniest is when they directly spoof scenes from the original movie . The scenes with Inspector Kemp , especially when he is first introduced still make laugh as does the scenes culled from THE BRIDE OF FRANKENSTIEN featuring Gene Hackman . It's just a pity the laughs are a long time coming and somewhat inconsistent and it's one of those movies that will have the audience remembering all the good bits while forgetting the more numerous unfunny bits
More Fun Than Jaws	Bimbo and drunk team up to save innocent people from killer piranha ! Sounds like a grade Z movie of the worst sort and maybe it is but PIRANHA is nothing less than grade A entertainment . Pride of place goes to John Sayle's knowing script which telegraphs the coming carnage with a scene featuring Dumont ( Played brilliantly by Paul Bartel ) a sort of fascist summer camp commander : " People eat fish . Fish do not eat people " Hey I think that line might be leading somewhere . And the dialogue throughout is just as camp but that's what makes it a joy . DRUNK : " Distract the guard " BIMBO : " What if he's gay ? " DRUNK : " Then I'll distract him " And who can forget the all time classic line " It's the piranha sir . They're eating the guests " Joe Dante doesn't take the script seriously either and films it as a tongue in cheek homage to JAWS . Everytime someone takes a dip we're treated to a fish eye view of the potential victim where you expect the John Williams theme of Du Dum Du Dum Dum Dum Dum Dum to appear on the soundtrack . And never in the history of cinema have so many film goers laughed at so many people getting eaten alive . Please don't write into the IMDB goof department to point out the revealing mistake of the woman screaming at the badly eaten rubber corpse . That's delibarate on the part of Dante I'm sureWithout doubt the most enjoyable JAWS spin off ever made
A Great Film On A Difficult Subject	Despite hearing all the great reviews about Paul Thomas Anderson's BOOGIE NIGHTS I only went out of my way to watch it due to voyeurism . No not that type of voyeurism you dirty lot , I was simply curious to see what someone has to do to break into the world of pornography . You might like to know that an infamous British tabloid used to advertise for what's euphemistically known as " Video models " in its classified column . I had a rough idea what this involved but there was no way I was going to apply but that didn't stop me from wondering why anyone would want to get caught up in this business and after seeing BOOGIE NIGHTS I now know that it's for sad unhappy people desperate to make money This is a sad , haunting , compelling film . Eddie Adams a hustler of sorts works as a dish washer where he has a chance meeting with porn director Jack Horner who eventually makes him a porn star and the film charts the rise and fall of Horner's porn company from the late 70s to early 80s . It's character driven so Anderson has to make his characters sympathetic and memorable . We see the weak willed Little Bill who wife taunts him by having sex with strangers , Buck Swope whose main ambition in life is to open his own hi fi store , Amber Waves who has a drug problem and trouble getting access to her children etc . You certainly may dislike what these characters do but you'll find them gaining your sympathy rather than your hatred due to their sad damaged lives . Being a porn star might sound attractive on the surface , especially before AIDS came along , but it's a career that leads to self destruction Anderson has written a very good script but that's not much use if he can't get the best out of his cast but he succeeds . He has cast very reliable character actors like Julianne Moore , William H Macy , Luis Guzman and John C Reilly who as you can imagine do their best with the script but casting Mark Wahlberg and Burt Reynolds as the two key characters Eddie and Jack seems like professional suicide and amazingly they're both outstanding . I don't think I've seen Reynolds ever give a better performance than the one here and if you just know him via crap like STRIPTEASE prepare to be blown away Obviously this isn't a film to watch with your parents or even with a bunch of friends on a night in . It's not often that Hollywood produces such an intelligent film and it's a pity that BOOGIE NIGHTS seems to have been a victim of poor timing where it was released in between LA CONFIDENTIAL and TITANIC ensuring that it missed out on more critical acclaim and awards . It did pick up three Oscar nominations but it deserved so much more . Perhaps the Academy didn't want to spoil the 27 year old Anderson with too many nominations at such a tender age ?
Great Movie	It's always the sign of a good movie when you feel for the characters . When your initial sorrow for a character in a film is replaced by a sense of guilt for having sympathy for them at the end then that is the sign of a great movie . There , that's all I'm going to say about the characters and plot of UNBREAKABLE in case I spoil the shock twist at the end which is every bit effective and even more original than M . Night Shymalan's SIXTH SENSE . It seems opinions are divided for this movie with some people thinking it's a disappointment while some people think it's a classic . I fall into the latter and if Steven Spielberg had directed this it would be hailed as a masterpiece
Very Interesting For The Most Part	There I was sitting alone in my flat on a Saturday night with the choice of watching CITIZEN X or The Eurovision Song Contest , and for the benefit of Americans reading this I'll explain that TESC is an annual event where musicians from countries all over Europe and Asia Minor have a song contest . At the end of the contest countries vote to see what the best song was . It's a contest that is even less exciting than it sounds and it may not come as a shock when I say that singing and songwriting isn't of the calibre of Lennon and McCartney . And I should correct something in the first sentence of this review because the word " Choice " is misleading because being a music lover I wasn't going to watch TESC under any circumstance . So I sat down as the credits rolled for CITIZEN X expecting a run of mill serial killer whodunnit , but I'd be misleading everyone calling it that . It's obvious within the first 10 minutes of CITIZEN X whodunnit . What the film does is point out the failures of communism : " A serial killer comrade ! This is the Soviet Union , serial killers can only exist in decadent imperialist capitalist systems " This farcical attitude goes far beyond denial , there's a scene where an undercover cop sits in a freezing train station keeping an eye out for potential suspects whilst wearing his police jacket because it's the only warm coat he's got ! And of course all suspects who are members of the communist party are released without interrogation something which will affect the final death toll . All this is very well done as we are shown that it's the communist party system that's on trial but about two thirds of the way through CITIZEN X we find ourselves in 1990 as communism is on its last legs and reforms to the police investigation have taken place . It's at this point that the film becomes rather uninteresting due to a lack of political subtext and the film descends into an average manhunt film . But don't let that put you off , CITIZEN X is an intelligent thriller well played by the cast especially Donald Sutherland as a paternal police chiefStrangely enough a few years ago I read something written by the famous criminologist Colin Wilson in which he said something along the lines that serial killers let themselves get caught so that they will be the center of attention in the media spotlight , and I found myself almost sympathising the party chiefs denying there could be a serial killer in the Soviet Union . After all media is controlled by the party and anyone who's old enough to have listened to Radio Moscow or read English translations of Pravda will know that the USSR only reported news stories like potato harvests , coal production and thank you letters from Afghanistan , Cuba etc for Soviet assistance . The concept of becoming a serial killer in a communist system is illogical . But I guess if a tree falls in a remote Siberian forest it will still make a sound even though no one is around to hear it .
Guys This Is A Great And Funny Short	It's not often I feel I have to defend something on this site but after seeing CHICKENS COME HOME a few days ago I must say I'm slightly puzzled as to why some people think it's not as good as made out . I remember seeing this as a young child and enjoying it immensely and after seeing it again as an adult it's - Unlike a few other L & H shorts - just as enjoyable now Yeah the flaws with this short are the same with any other one in that the performances are very stagy with lots of shouting and over emphatic mannerisms but no one ever complains about that in other short films featuring Stan and Ollie and unlike a lot of the other shorts CHICKENS COME HOME does feature a coherent plot instead of a lot of episodic incidents Some people have moaned that the duo are kept apart from each other hence this is somehow less of a success but that's all down to opinion because I was very impressed with the fact Stan and Ollie were both funny on their own throughout the running time with Ollie getting the lion's share of laughs . Come on anyone with a pulse and a sadistic sense of humour will wet themselves as Mr Hardy sings " Somebody's coming to my house " or screams when he sees an indiscreetly placed photograph but the best moments are the ones featuring Ollie and his Butler who knows too much . If I remember correctly there was a situation comedy from over 20 years ago featuring Keith Barron and Carlos Douglas called DUTY FREE with a very similar premise
Is It Possible Hitchins Didn't Go Far Enough ?	If you've never heard of Christopher Hitchens let me explain he's the only person in the world who makes Professor Richard Dawkins look like a happy clappy vicar . He's a radical atheist who is openly hostile of religion . Dawkins uses scientific arguments to illustrate his belief that there is no god . Hitchens on the other hand is not a scientist but his cynicism towards religion makes him far more accessible to a mass audience , and over the years this expose by Hitchens on Mother Teresa has taken on legendary status . Such a pity that it's difficult to track down , but all you have to do is type in to any search engine " Hitchins Hells Angel " and you might be presently surprised how easy it is to findHitchens does not for a moment pretend this is going to be objective - It's a hatchet job on someone who is somewhat regarded even amongst secularists as someone who has brought hope and joy to the destitute and needy in the slums of Calcutta . Early on we're shown a clip from a 1969 documentary by ( in ) famous Christian Malcolm Muggeridge who started the Teresa myth by proclaiming that a miracle had happened , but this so called miracle involving light is easily explained by the cameraman going in to details as to how it's all down to the film in the camera . Strange to say that despite all the publicity and donations she has received her hospice has not changed one bit 25 years later . People still lie on stretcher beds with their heads shaved and the image to quote one former nurse who worked there " resembles Belsen . . . where the dying and stricken are given nothing stronger than aspirin as a painkiller . . . and where dirty needles are washed in cold water to be used again " Abortion and Teresa's attitude to it is next in Hitchens sights . We're shown footage of her stating that " The greatest destroyer of world peace today is the cry of the unborn child being murdered in her mother's womb " then footage of a rally in Ireland where she states her dogma against abortion and birth control . It's at this point journalist Mihir Bose points out that she's a crusader for reactionary hardline Catholic dogma and why so many leaders of western democracies admire her so much But perhaps it's not so much western leaders she should be remembered for meeting according to Hitchens " She may not comfort the afflicted but has never been known to afflict the comfortable " . she shakes hands with Ronald Reagan , a sponsor of right wing death squads in Central America , Haitian despot Papa Doc Duvalier and laying a wreath on the tomb of Stalinist dictator of Albania Enva Hoxa . Hitchens poses the question that why is she renowned as being " Mother Teresa Of Calcutta " when in fact she seemed to spend most of her life preferring to shake hands with the ( not ) great and ( far from ) goodIf I have any problem with HELLS ANGEL it's that might have pulled his punches just a little bit . It's a well known fact that whenever Mother Teresa fell ill she would go to America to be treated by the world's leading and most expensive doctors . Apparently what was good enough for dying penniless beggars in the Indian subcontinent wasn't good enough for her , and I don't think Hitchens hammered this point home enough in this documentary though to be fair Hitchens has certainly made up for it in articles over the years . But still it's a very well argued documentary which should be seen by anyone who's sitting on the fence where religion and its hypocrisy is concerned
Oh Dear . . .	. . . How am I supposed to review a thriller I liked a lot ? It's much easier to write comments on a thriller I disliked , a good example being that really crap movie with Bruce Willis hired by the Russian mafia and IRA man Richard Gere trying to stop him . I think you know the movie I'm talking about Frederick Forsyth writes thrillers that not only entertain you but educate you too and Kenneth Ross has written a screenplay that reflects this type of writing . The characters aren't cyphers created just to push the plot along , you can really believe these policemen have been solving cases for years ( notice how the policemen are either dowdy or gruff or both . Very realistic ) while you just know " The Jackal " is the world's most effective hit-man . Director Fred Zimmerman films the movie the best way possible - As a docudrama . Okay it might be a little slow and European to some tastes thirty years after it was filmed but compare it to the aforementioned remake and tell me what ones more nailbiting and compelling ? No contest is it
Certainly One Of Arnie's Best Ever Movies	I've seen TOTAL RECALL many times over the years and I'm never failed to be impressed with it . Some people dislike it and I feel I must defend the movie " Confused plot " - Sorry but I managed to understand the complex plot first time I saw the movie and was impressed that Hollywood had merged a high concept plot with a FX laden extravaganza , such a pity this didn't lead to more thoughtful action adventures . If you want to see a confused plot try watching a James Bond movie from the 1980s " The violence " - Yeah this is a violent movie for sure but I do wish people would educate themselves to the work of directors before they criticize . Paul Verhoeven had previously made FLESH AND BLOOD and ROBOCOP so a futuristic adventure by Verhoeven that was awarded an 18 certificate isn't going to be confused with an episode of the teletubbiesWhat I liked from Verhoeven's directing is that he's made everything so recognizable , nothing is ridiculously futuristic looking and we see the characters wearing clothes that wouldn't look out of place in the 1980s . Verhoeven also brings little satirical stabs to the proceedings as he did with ROBOCOP and it's a great shame we see less and less of this European director working for Hollywood Verhoeven even gets a good performance from Big Arnie , okay this body builder was never in danger of winning an Oscar but Arnie doesn't send himself up and nor do his wise cracks like in his other blockbusters but he does make for an affable - Though violent - hero . Michael Ironside gives the most memorable performance which considering he spends most of the movie running around with a gun is no small achievement . One interesting thing I noticed about TOTAL RECALL after seeing it again last night is that it's unapologetic on being on the side of the rebels who are waging a war against the greedy Mars company . Anyone believe that if it was made today the rebels / terrorists would be the bad guys ? Anyway this is along with the original TERMINATOR the best movie starring Arnie though most of the credit for this movie belongs to the screenwriters and director and it's a great pity Hollywood is reluctant to mix a high concept SF plot with a crowd pleasing action adventure
Depressing Shocker , Maybe Too Depressing	CARRIE is based on the eponymous book by Stephen King and is brought to the big screen from Brian De Palma . It is arguably the highlight of both mens ' careers which is a shame because it was King's debut novel and an early contribution to cinema from De Palma . Many people have gone in to the plot in great detail so I won't bother , but does anyone agree that the supernatural elements of the plot are the weakest parts ? Put it like this Carrie White is becoming a woman , is bullied and humiliated by her class mates and lives at home with an unbalanced religious theocratic mother . If you've not got a hell of a lot of sympathy for her you're probably a corpse . If you've ever vaguely had the problems Carrie is suffering from then you will find this movie very depressingThat's not to say CARRIE is a bad film , it's not but it's a very uncomfortable watch and much of this is to do with the cast . Spacek , Laurie , Allen , Katt and Travolta all play their parts with absolute conviction , a fact that is reflected in two of the cast being Oscar nominated and how often do people receive Oscar nominations for being in a horror movie ? Still it's best to bare in mind that this is a horror film because if it was a straight laced drama involving teenage angst on the battlefield of adolescence I would have probably have switched it off before the end credits due to the distressing narrative . But CARRIE is a horror film and a bloody good one which gets from me
Haunting	What I love about this film is that it's so understated . There is absolutely no attempt whatsoever to explain why the birds are turning against humanity , indeed there's a scene in the cafe where a character points out that bird species joining together to wage war against the human race would be impossible , and the concept is totally ridiculous but Hitchcock and screenwriter Evan Hunter ( Using the basic premise of Du Maurier's short story - the screenplay is almost totally original ) manage to leave the unsettling thought that this might just happen one day . The film is slightly dated in some ways , most notably the FX which are sometimes obvious back projection , but this was made in 1963 don't forget . And THE BIRDS does contain some classic scenes like the discussions in the diner , the downbeat ending and the bit where the woman walks into the farmhouse and finds . . . . no I won't spoil it for you . I rate this as Hitchcock's best film . If you want to get your own back then make sure you stuff a turkey this Christmas
Geddit Up	Alongside DEADLY VOYAGE this is one of the best films ever to have been made for television . THE GUARDIAN stars Sheen as a white bleeding heart liberal and Gossett Jr as a black draconian fascistic security guard and it's no coincidence that these two people are written this way or that one's black and one's white . Indeed it's central to the subtext and character arcs . Best part is the climax when Sheen - who goes slightly OTT in this scene , and that's by no means a criticism - realises that he has to " Geddit up " . If you're wondering why he doesn't want to " Geddit up " then you'll just have to watch this great TVM . You won't be disappointed
Everyone's Talking About It Being a Great Movie	Despite this being a very good film it's also a very strange one . Joe Buck decides to travel to The Big Apple as a male escort . This sets up MIDNIGHT COWBOY as something of a comedy and much of the movie is very , very amusing as Joe finds himself out of his depth in the big bad city . Let's face it this guy is naive and pathetic as he pulls out his wallet and gives his clients money for a taxi . LOL . However there is a slight problem the way the movie constantly changes in mood . Towards the end of the movie Hoffman's character is the one the audience find themselves feeling sorry for , helped in no small part by Joe committing a needless act of violence . I wouldn't say this is a mistake on the part of screenwriter Waldo Salt but the scene in the hotel room made me lose any type of empathy I had left for Joe . we instantly like Joe and dislike Ratso and by the end of the movie our feelings for the pair are reversed ! Probably deliberate . As for the rest of Salt's screenplay I did feel that Joe's background story was rather unexplained ( Just who is that lover of Joe's and who are that gang ? ) but I guess it's up to the individual to work out what it was all about and the story is very well paced Director John Schlesinger won an Oscar for this movie back in the days when the Academy voters were more interested in giving awards for people who deserved it . Schlesinger makes good the use of music without drowning the audience in the score , a pity that later directors seem unable to get the balance right . It's also a beautifully edited movie as characters experience flashbacks and hopeful hallucinations , most memorable the sunshine by the Maimi pool that comes to a halt when Joe gets his face slapped and is ejected from a hotel . The acting can't be faulted either . Possibly the only real criticism about the directing is that the psychedelic party scene seems rather dated now Over all this is a very good film but in my opinion not a great one because of my eventual feelings for Joe which does spoil the movie ever so slightly . I should also point out that I read OF MICE AND MEN for my English exams as both a schoolboy and as a student , so much so that I ended up hating the novel and if MIDNIGHT COWBOY resembles any literary classic it's the aforementioned Stienbeck book .
I'd Forgotten How Good This Was	I watched THEM last week after an absence of nearly 15 years and was expecting to see another corny SF bug movie , but I was surprised as to how much I enjoyed it . Okay the science involved is absolute rubbish but it is a very enjoyable film with some really good moments like the lone cop investigating the eldritch sound of the ants , the attack on the ship , and the final battle underneath the city . Gordon Douglas uses an almost documentary type of filming that suspends disbelief . THEM is rightly regarded as one of the best films of the golden age of SFI enjoyed watching this for the first time when I was about 8 years old , but it does have a personal relevence to me : It was the very first film I taped off the television when I got my own video recorder way back in 1988
It's An Account , Not A Statement	I vividly remembered the news reports in October 1993 of the body of an American serviceman being dragged through the streets of Mogadishu following the battle there . A couple of years later my interest of the battle was rekindled by an edition of the BBC's excellent history show TIMEWATCH that spoke to the survivors of " The biggest firefight involving American troops since Vietnam " , so when Mark Bowden released his book BLACK HAWK DOWN I opened the first page and found myself unable to put it down , and when I heard Ridley Scott was going to bring Bowden's book to the big screen I was looking forward to seeing it I did enjoy the movie and have to take issue with some of the comments raised . First of all people complain about events and incidents being changed , I know how you feel but with any adaptation there's bound to be bits condensed , the only real criticisms that can justified is that this film version totally negates the Somali point of view ( For those of you who haven't read the book Mark Bowden writes his account in a similar subjective manner Corneilus Ryan wrote his trilogy - two of which THE LONGEST DAY and A BRIDGE TOO FAR were made into blockbuster movies - dealing with the last months of the war in Europe ) but Bowden's book is an account of the battle of Mogadishu , that's what it is - An account that doesn't really concern itself with wider issues like politics or anti-war sentiment , so it seems churlish to complain about concepts like character development because that's not what the story is about . I've also heard teenage girls complain that Orlando Bloom doesn't get enough screen time and that they found it too violent . I'm sorry to hear that girls , hopefully next time you go to the cinema you might like to find out what you're letting yourself in for . As for the rest of the screenplay it is accurate right down to the friction between the Deltas and the Rangers and the fact the Americans were actually rescued by a UN force composed of Malaysians and PakistanisRidley Scott rightly deserved an Oscar nomination with BHD . It's his movie and he surpasses anything Spielberg achieved with the overrated SAVING PRIVATE RYAN . War is hell and this is a film of stark and haunting imagery of victims of famine , of mutilated soldiers and civilians . Both editing and cinematography are superb with many great scenes like the small stream of American soldiers walking up the street while on the other side of the houses a massive torrent of armed militiamen are walking in the same direction . My only real complaints of what's on screen is Ewan McGregor's awful American accent ( It's especially so when you stop to consider that most of the cast aren't played by American actors ) and Hans Zimmer score resembles that of most of his other movies , but I shouldn't nitpick because I found this Scott's best film alongside GLADIATOR
Despite Several Flaws A Very Memorable Movie	Hearing that 300 is based upon a " graphic novel " which is a pseudo intellectual phrase used to describe a comic book I didn't go out of my way to watch this because the present Hollywood movie making factory spends too much time and money bringing these type of stories to the screen . Also I was very unimpressed with director Zack Snyder's previous film the remake of DAWN OF THE DEAD which is a pale imitation of a superior movie . Sometimes prejudice can get in the way of judging a film of its own merits because 300 is one of the more memorable movie moments from last year and one that seems unforgivably ignored at the more prestigious film award ceremonies Being based upon a comic book you could say in all honesty that the visuals mirror those of a graphic novel , but I would claim it goes far , far beyond that and say it's like watching a painting come to life . The battle scenes are entirely different from those seen in LORD OF THE RINGS or KINGDOM OF HEAVEN but are no less impressive and some of the battle sequences , most notably the ones featuring the immortals are terrifying . Did I say this film is like a painting come to life ? In some sequences it looks like a nightmare come to life and this stylish formalist type of cinema will send a chill down your spine . This is cinema strictly for adults onlyFans of ancient history and classical studies will find a lot to criticise because it's not an accurate depiction of ancient Greece but you should always make the legend according to John Ford . Unfortunately by concentrating on the visuals there's other aspects lacking . The Spartans don't really come across as real characters from ancient times , more of a crowd of wise cracking macho cyphers and let's be honest here , with the exception of voice over the dialogue is rather poor . It often reminded me of something present day Scottish folk hero John Smeaton might say : " Dinnae come tae Sparta , we'll set aboot ya up here " But despite these very noticeable flaws this is a truly memorable movie down to the jaw dropping visuals and it's the visuals the film will be rightly remembered for . It's a pity that the Oscar voters have ignored 300 because certainly make up , cinematography , editing and possibly best supporting actor for Andrew Tiernan as Ephialtes should have been nominated at least and this film will be highly regarded in years to come
A Thinking Man's War Film	Remember that Henry Fonda movie THE BATTLE OF THE BULGE ? That's the war movie that was set in the fog shrouded snow bound forests of the Ardennes in December 1944 but for some reason the movie's big set piece battle takes place on an arid desert plain . LOST COMMAND starts with a very similar error in geography involving the battle of Dien Bien Phu where the French built a heavily fortified base in the middle of a mountainous jungle in 1954 , except this film would have us believe that the battle took place in the middle of a desert ! But I'm more than willing to forgive this goof as LOST COMMAND is a good film , it's maybe not a great film but if you like action adventure / war films you'll hopefully enjoy this as much as I did and director / Producer Mark Robson should be congratulated for making a film showing the French fighting man in a good light . Say what you like about French political leaders but France does have a long noble military tradition with a glorious defeat being every bit as courageous as a glorious victory . But the screenplay doesn't glorify conflict and rightly points out that violence breeds violence , it pits former friends against one another , and it's always the most innocent who suffer the most
Even This Cynical Viewer Was Enthralled By This Exciting Animated Adventure	I had absolutely no knowledge of WATERSHIP DOWN was going to be about except that it featured rabbits in some capacity . I had an inkling it was going to be some patronising , juvenile crap that anyone above the age of seven would find nauseating . It says something about the quality of television on the run up to Christmas when a bitter and twisted 39 year old man sits down to watch a feature length about talking rabbits - Talking rabbits ! OMG , it's not like the author Richard Adams meant the story to be some drug metaphor is it ? OMG talking rabbits just how pathetic is that ? And the one thing that I remembered on its initial release - And which I'm still trying to forget to this very day - is that gawd awful song by the guy with the worst hairstyle in the history of pop music . You know the song . . . . " bright eyes burning like fire " . Bad enough I saw BARNEY'S BIG ADVENTURE the previous day . Now I was going to be watching equally childish sentimental crap with talking rabbits Oh hold on . I've just seen WATERSHIP DOWN this very minute . Can everyone reading this review please ignore erroneous phrases like " Childish pathetic crap " because this is not how the story plays out . I do confess that perhaps the original story has perhaps been slightly flawed in the adaption with the hierarchy of the original warren somewhat unexplained ( For example why is it treason to leave the warren and search for a new one ? ) but that is my one and only criticism of this superb animated adventure which can be enjoyed by anyone of any age In a nut shell WATERSHIP DOWN resembles one of those post apocalypse dramas by John Wyndham or more especially John Christopher except instead of humans it features rabbits that talk . No seriously forget all about the characters being humanized bunnies , this is a dark dramatic adventure where survivors of an eco-disaster try and find sanctuary in a bleak , desolate and dangerous world . As crazy as it sounds some people have picked up on the coincidence that the plot resembles 28 DAYS LATER and one can't help thinking that it's a little bit stronger than coincidence . If you've seen one you can't noticing the quite striking similarities between the two especially the climax . Of course it could be that the original novel of WATERSHIP DOWN was influenced by Conrad's HEART OF DARKNESS which seems to have influenced much of Alex Garland's work but even so A thoroughly enthralling adventure that may have children weeping at the sad bits will certainly keep adults interested as they try and spot analogies . Let me repeat once again that while there's sad scenes there is nothing sickeningly sentimental and is a shockingly sophisticated tale . I certainly rate as being one of the greatest British productions of the 1970s
Despite The Hype It's Carlyle's Film	TRAINSPOTTING exploded in a burst of hype in 1996 . I'm not sure if this helped the movie . It's a good movie but no film can live upto the amount of hype this one got , compared to TRAINSPOTTING the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy was a production that went straight to video with very little fanfareThe script was Oscar nominated and deservedly so since Irvine Welsh's cult low concept novel was deemed to be basically unfilmable , but there is a slight problem in that an all important scene where Begbie stands waiting for a train to take him away from Leith hasn't been included . This passage from the book explains the title . What suprised me though what wasn't included in the Oscar nominations , for example the editing where Rents hides under the bedsheets only to be met by Begbie is superb and talking of Begbie he's without doubt one of the most evil characters ever to have appeared on the silver screen and this is down mainly to Robert Carlyle's heart stopping performance . Ask yourself this : If another actor had played Francis Begbie would TRAINSPOTTING have been half as good ? Of course not . It's like watching DIRTY HARRY without Andrew Robinson or GOODFELLOWS without Joe Pesci and it's shocking that Carlyle wasn't even nominated at the Oscars for best supporting actorAs a personal footnote I'd just like to add I was born in Leith where this story is set . I do hope that gives me some street cred
A Beautiful Haunting Story Of Teenage Obsession	Lesbian murderers ? I'm sort of guessing that I might not like this movie very much . No doubt we'll be seeing some polemical do gooder film maker with zero talent making a movie where anyone who gets murdered by the gay girls probably asked for it because they were a rabid homophobeThat was my abstract opinion of HEAVENLY CREATURES when it was released to some critical acclaim ten years ago , with much of the acclaim going to writer / director Peter Jackson whose previous gory horror comedies I'd enjoyed . Yeah the guy was talented I remember thinking , but in a liberal climate we'd no doubt be hearing a myriad of excuses via the film for the girls crime and it was this attitude that stopped me from watching the movie until it was broadcast on BBC 2 tonight I was fooling myself if I thought Jackson was going to make a bad movie . This is another piece of heart melting , intelligent movie making from the Kiwi genius and I'm sorry for doubting Jackson for a moment . What Jackson has done has made a movie where it's difficult to think of the two protagonists as " lesbian lovers " , Pauline Reiper and Juliet Hulme are two teenagers who love each other full stop and the screenplay doesn't once make any excuses for anything that happens , we're not supposed to feel disgusted by their relationship , we're not supposed to feel that they are victims in any way and we're not supposed to feel that a conservative , homophobic society is to blame for what happened . Jackson deserves much credit for making an amoral movie without an agenda , it's up to the free thinking audience to make up their own minds on the case . Take for example the murder of Mrs Rieper who kindly takes the girls to a tea house then for a walk in the countryside . It's difficult not to notice that if she'd been an uncaring cruel dragon with absolutely no conscience the girls wouldn't have had an opportunity to murder the woman . It's also a movie that captures the spirit of being a teenager in love . When for whatever reason you have to say goodbye to your first love it's the end of the world . You'll do anything to stop it happening - ANYTHING - and you won't forgive anyone who caused it to happen . Fantasy sequences similar to the ones shown here are also a staple diet of the teenage mind and if you disagree with me you're either being dishonest or you're under twelve years of age . Believe me this movie reminded me , perhaps a little too much , of my own teenage angst Jackson also deserves credit for his casting Melanie Lynskey and ( A then totally unknown ) Kate Winslet as Pauline and Juliet . Neither of them can be described as strikingly attractive and you do have to worry who we would have got instead if this was a Hollywood production , but they play the star crossed lovers with absolute conviction , as indeed do the rest of the castHEAVENLY CREATURES is beautiful , haunting , thoughtful and incisive . With the exception of Martin Scorsese I rate Peter Jackson as the world's greatest living film maker and HEAVENLY CREATURES is the first movie that showed the true greatness Jackson is capable of
Intelligent War Movie	I remember seeing this movie in the late 1970s and liked it a lot and still watch it every time it's broadcast not infrequently on television . I was very disappointed that it didn't make the recent list of Channel 4 ' s 100 GREATEST WAR MOVIES list What I like about THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN is its cynical edge . You see in these type of movies the Yanks are invincible knights in shining armour while the Jerries are invariably goose stepping Nazi dumbkopfs and while there is an element to Uncle Sam winning the war single handed it's nowhere enough to drag the movie into mediocrity . When I say " cynical " the screenplay is very even handed - The Americans loot from the bodies of the dead and come close to fragging a senior officer at one point while German civilians bleat that they're not Nazis seconds after taking down prized portraits of Adolph Hitler Of course much of the cynicism is helped because of the period setting . It's only a few weeks from the final end of the war in Europe and everyone knows what the outcome of the war is going to be but everyone still kills and dies regardless . There is something more poignant about this than say the battle of Stalingrad in 1942 or D Day in 1944 hence the obvious war weariness from the Americans . It's different for the Germans who are fighting the enemy in their own borders . It should also be pointed out that in reality they know the Nazi death camps have been found and someone will be paying a heavy price for these crimes against humanity hence the Germans are in no hurry to surrender Being made in 1969 I wonder if the war in Vietnam was at the back of the producers minds ? The one major German character Kreuger is portrayed as just a soldier protecting his homeland while we see scenes of American bombers dropping ordnance on innocent civilians that include young children and woman in their eighties . Maybe it's just another example of cynicism ? but one things for sure - You won't be seeing something like this coming out of a Hollywood studio today If you like war movies you'll like THE BRIDGE AT REMAGEN a lot . It's intelligent , cynical and contains a really great score from Elmer Bernstien
One Of The Best British Films Ever Made	Michael Caine has often said that GET CARTER was the first gangster movie not to portray gangsters as either being stupid or funny . He's right , but he could also have added that this was probably the first film not to show gangsters as being sexy in anyway . Sure Glenda , Magaret etc might be physically attractive but sexy ? I don't think so . And the men aren't any less unattractive , almost all of them are cowardly two faced weasels or violent thugs and often these character traits overlap . Director Mike Hodges has made a bleak , nihilistic classic film . He isn't flashy unlike present day film makers associated with gangster flicks but that's not a criticism . I love the way Hodges makes use of the locations in showing the North East of England as a cold , austere windswept urban area of high rise council estates and red brick terraced houses with outside toilets . There is a train of thought that by showing the audience all this it dates the film but it's also true that it reminds us that living standards are also different today . No one takes a phone call in the pub because everyone has a mobile phone nowadays , the internet and videos have replaced slide shows and silent 8mm as the medium for porn , and it's now illegal to dump the slag from coal mining into the sea because of EU regulations GET CARTER also has some really great dialogue which I could sit here all day quoting . But I won't bother except to say my favourite line is when Carter jumps out of bed naked and holds a gun on Con and PeterCon : Put it away jack you know you won't use it Peter : The gun he's talking about classic dialogue from a classic film
Perhaps Their Most Typical Short	In many ways HOG WILD is the most typical L & H short . In fact it's like someone has distilled the formula and found out what the strengths and weaknesses are and refined them . First of all is the weaknesses : The story starts with Ollie suffering from amnesia and he can't find his hat - You'll never guess where it is ! - but this plot line is forgotten when he realises it's be on his head all along . The running gag of trying to put up a radio arial is very repetitive when you stop to examine the script , but the repetitive nature perhaps isn't a criticism because it shows us the slapstick duo at their very best . Ollie spends most of the short getting into serious mishaps and screams " OOOOOOOOOOHHHHHHH " a lot while Stan runs around panicking and making screeching whining noises . It goes without saying that Stan only adds more misery to Ollie's situationOn paper HOG WILD probably comes across as being silly , repetitive and perhaps a little sadistic but on screen these two lovable clowns had me in fits of laughter . Many of the reviewers rate this as one of the very best L & H shorts . I couldn't agree more
Despite A Somewhat Poor Start A Great Horror Movie	MILD SPOILERS Good to see that I wasn't the only person slightly disappointed with the start of DOG SOLDIERS and its flawed view of how the military work . This has been a problem with British film makers over the last couple of decades , they confuse being anti-war with being anti-military . In order to join the SAS you have to shoot dogs do you ? I don't think so . Oh and it's all right to hit commanding officers ? In war time serving soldiers have been shot on the spot for less . It should also be pointed out that if a military patrol are carrying out exercises under combat conditions it's highly unlikely they'd walk through a forest whistling tunes or light a camp fire especially if the patrol leader is a combat vet , and as is often seen in movies soldiers cock loaded weapons and throw them at each other to catch . What ? Soldiers throwing loaded weapons at each other ? Believe me this only happens in movies But unlike a previous reviewer from Australia I can forgive these military blunders from writer / director Neil Marshall who has crafted a very effective and totally entertaining small budget horror movie . Yeah okay it's totally unoriginal with a premise from ASSUALT ON PRECINCT 13 and NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD but so what ? Are we to think because one or two scenes have been stolen from ZULU and STRAW DOGS that this is a bad movie in any way ? From the scene where the cow lands on the camp fire to the end titles I was totally engrossed in the story and Marshall manages to film a lot of enthralling scenes like the bit where the Sarge is lying in bed unaware that werewolves are creeping into the room through the window and Spoon's last stand is strangely touching , maybe not as touching as the departure of Boromir from LORD OF THE RINGS but remember this is a low budget horror film which aren't exactly known for their emotional impact . It's also great to see British soldiers shown in a good light , there's not many recent films that do that , compare this to the portrayal of the soldiers in 28 DAYS LATER and on second thoughts Neil Marshall has obviously been doing his home work when one of the characters mentions " Midges " a small fly like insect with an irritating bite native to Scotland which has spoiled many a Summer walk in the countryside . I hope to be seeing a lot more of Neil Marshall's work in the future . I'm sure I will
Give The Casting Director An Oscar Or Medication !	TAKE ME HOME was a three part romantic drama broadcast in 1989 and because of its totally ridiculous storyline I can remember it scene for scene . How ridiculous is it ? Eyes down and off we go MILD SPOILERS Tom a middle aged cab driver played by Keith Barron gives a lift to recently married sexy twenty something blonde Kathy played by Maggie O Neill . Yeah talk about some inspired casting . So eventually a sexual relationship develops and boy is it sexual and one of the most memorable scenes takes place in the back of Tom's cab . There's quite a few memorable scenes and not all of them featuring explicit rumpo like : Kathy and her husband Ray holding a dinner party and Tom being caught peeking through the window . A chase scene ensues and Tom gets a good kicking from a bunch of middle class wimps one of whom brags " Did you see me getting those punches in ? " . I think the casting director was sacked after this productionTom and his wife Liz ( Played by Annette Crosbie - yes THE Anette Crosbie ) lying in bed after an obvious but untelevised sex session . Liz wants to know where Tom learned that ? " Oh one of the blokes at work had a magazine . I thought I'd just try it " Liz bumping into a male stripper and her vain vain attempts to seduce him by saying hello . I mean that literally . Liz says " Hello " and the stripper gives a perplexed look before running off upstairs Tom breaking the news to his wife that he's been having an affair and Liz squealing " DID SHE TAKE YOUR MAN THING IN HER MOUTH ? " If that line sounds ridiculous just be thankful we didn't hear Anette Crosbie talk dirty If I remember correctly the BBC marketed this serial as " A romantic drama with a difference " Boy they got that right . Different , memorable and enjoyable . The casting director must have been a genius to be stupid enough to employ such an unlikely cast
Very Intelligent	In 1950 Basil Dearden cast Dirk Bogarde in a groundbreaking film called THE BLUE LAMP , groundbreaking because it was the first film to use the word " bastard " . Eleven years later Dearden cast Bogarde in an even more groundbreaking film called VICTIM which was the first film to use the word " homosexual " . Not only does it use the word but the whole plot revolves around homosexual characters ! This must have shocked the world at the time ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! Looking upon it today it may not be so shocking but it certainly remains one of the most intelligent British movies from that period . Unlike a lot of screenwriters today Janet Green and John McCormick leave the audience to make up their own minds as to the rights and wrongs of whether homosexuality should remain illegal or not . There are a couple of very good points the screenplay makes 1 ) Being gay is only a crime if it can be proved that you were committing homosexual acts . The victims are more guilty of living a lie than committing a crime . Their indiscretion rather than their sexuality is what got them into trouble 2 ) The police aren't portrayed as being pro actively hunting down homosexuals like a bunch of Nazis . It's interesting to note that in an era like today where liberal values dominate the British police force have never been held in greater contempt by the public . If they're not hunting down people committing homosexual acts ( or smoking weed ) how come they're too busy to catch burglars ? As I said this is an amazingly intelligent script that lets the audience think for its self . One running subplot is two characters being constantly followed by a character who ( Bitterly ironic with hindsight ) looks like Jeremy Thorpe . All through the narrative I was certain that these two men were victims of blackmail while their stalker was the blackmailer . Get ready for a shock when it's revealed how these three men fit into the story The cast are very good , more so when you consider that most of the original choices turned the roles because of the movie's subject matter , but Dirk Bogarde is nothing less than superb and probably gives a career best performance as gay barrister Melville Farr though he does come across as perhaps a little too self righteous to be truly effective and perhaps if he came out to both his wife and firm earlier he could have saved himself a lot of grief . As I stated being gay wasn't the crime , you were only prosecuted for being indiscreet . But all in all very good film on a controversial topic ( Much more so in those days ) that never once becomes patronising or polemical
By Far The Best Movie In The Franchise	I remember having a conversation with a work colleague in 1983 on horror films ( In those days video nasties like I SPIT ON YOUR GRAVE and NIGHT OF THE DEMON were all the rage ) and he mentioned that he thought ALIEN was a great film . " Hmm " I replied " I didn't think it was that good Benny . It would have been better if there was more people getting killed by lots of aliens and a lot more action " It could be that James Cameron over heard my conversation and decided he was going to make a sequel solely to please me , but it's more logical to assume that he recognised the obvious faults of the pretentious arthouse original and went for a no holds action blockbusterI really loved the action setpieces of ALIENS , the flames , the explosions , the gunfire , the high body count and the nerve jangling tension . Cameron does a great job and unlike his later films never goes overboard on the production values and a special mention should go to realistic little things like costume design . All too often directors shoot themselves in the foot by making the future look futuristic and fail because of it , check out UFO , THE GREEN SLIME and SPECE 1999 for a few examples , but here the costumes look very functional as opposed to futuristic . And Cameron has written a very good - though possibly overlong - script . Notice that it has - Unlike his script for RAMBO FIRST BLOOD PART TWO - a slightly left of centre viewpoint with the marines being jingoistic American stereotypes and the bad guy being a corperate capitilist ? This no accident on the part of the screenwriter I'm sureSo with a few rare exceptions like MAD MAX 2 this is a film that outdoes the original . I know that some critics prefer Ridley Scott's version and they're entitled to their veiwpoint but Cameron proved the doom mongers ( And there was a lot of them in 1985 ) wrong when they announced that ALIENS wouldn't come close to equalling never mind surpassing the original . I've no idea what Benny thought of ALIENS though
Great Performances Paper Over Any Minor Flaws	ROAD TO PERDITION can be summed up by Thomas Newman's score . It's haunting and beautiful but you're aware that this music is similar to Newman's other work and while listening to the soundtrack you're reminded of SCENT OF A WOMAN , MEETING JOE BLACK and THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION you're reminded of other films as the story unfolds on screen . As the Sullivans drive round America trying to escape from a psychotic hit man you think of THE GETAWAY , Irish gangsters is MILLER'S CROSSING whilst the subtext of guilt and redemption can be summed up by Coppola and Leone's gangster epics . Despite having a seen it all before feel this shouldn't be taken as a heavy criticism of Sam Mendes film which I repeat is haunting and beautiful and the only flaws that work against it is a very slow opening twenty minutes and I was slightly confused as the events that caused Michael Sullivan to be betrayed . But if you stop to consider how much of a sentimental mess Spielberg might have made with the story that revolves around a father and his twelve year old son running for their lives you can't help thinking what a superb director Mendes is ROAD TO PERDITION is a film where the entire cast give flawless performances . I've never been all that keen on Tom Hanks but he's every bit as good here as he has been in any starring role , probably better . Paul Newman plays a character with an Irish accent but at no point did I believe I was watching an American screen legend putting on a false accent - Newman's performance works due to the subtle body language , his character is torn up by guilt but Newman never milks it or goes over the top . While never upstaging Newman who gives the best performance in the movie the two Brit supporting actors Craig and Law are also very memorable as American gangsters and while Law will still have a long career as a leading actor one wonders how Daniel Craig might have progressed as a character actor if he hadn't decided to become James Bond , a role which heralds the end of an actors career
Political Correctness Is A Terrible Thing	No doubt pseudo-intellectuals ( Ie People who only think they're clever ) will claim that BLAZING SADDLES deconstructs the traditional western by pointing out how fundamentally racist the genre is . I've no idea how much truth there is in that because I was too busy laughing at what was happening on screen . Yeah the N word figures a lot but let's not forget one of the screenwriters is a famous black stand up comedian and that everyone be they black , white or Jewish are targets for the outrageous events in this movie so I fail to see what's racist about it . It is of course politically incorrect but hands up anyone who's seen a politically correct comedy that made them laugh ? I won't bother to go into any detail as to how funny BLAZING SADDLES is except to say I remember seeing it years ago and watched it again at the weekend . Unlike a great number of movies I have fond memories of this is one film that didn't disappoint me after a long absence
No One Likes A Smart Ass	Being voted number 10 in the IMDB poll I was really looking forward to MEMENTO but after watching the first few minutes I was confused as to what was going on . Then I realised it was a thriller being told in segments backwards so that the next segment finishes where the previous one finished . Then I wondered where it was heading but I spent so much time admiring the structure , story telling technique and sheer audacious skill of Christopher Nolan's super smart script I forgot to look for all the clues that explain the story . That's the problem with this film : There's clever , then there's too clever by half , and then there's Christopher Nolan's script
A Great British Film From And About 1948	Charles Dickens was probably the most read author in the Soviet Union . His books might have been used as a propaganda tool in the same vein as Lenin's " useful idiot " concept but that's not to deride Dickens own experience of cruel , uncaring Victorian capitalism . He was a social commentator Where David Lean's OLIVER TWIST works best as both social commentary and Dickens adaptation is in the early scenes . There's very little dialogue involved but Stanley Haynes screenplay doesn't need it , it's obvious what the situation is , who are sympathies lie with and who we should dislike . What a modern day audience will forget in 2004 is that Britain was totally bankrupt when this movie was made . Britain had won the war but had nothing to show for it , many children were left orphaned and poverty stricken , I don't mean they couldn't afford the latest trainers or video consoles I mean they were TOTALLY poverty stricken so right away a large proportion of the British child audience could relate to this . It should also be remembered that the creation of Israel by the British had been sped up by the terrorist campaigns by the Irgun and Stern Gang and synagogues in North London were regularly desecrated in retaliation . Unfortunately the one problem I have with Fagin is that he's too Jewish , his make up is somewhat ridiculous ( He looks like a parrot ! ) and he spouts " Moi dearz " a bit too often to take seriously but this was before we had the inverse fascism of political correctness foisted upon us by a liberal elite who ironically enough despise the Israeli state Sorry if I've spoken more about Britain in 1948 than OLIVER TWIST but it's impossible not to pick up on the oblique connections between Victorian Britain and post war Britain . I guess if it were made today the plot would have been changed so that the eponymous character is American without anybody batting an eyelid . That shows you how much Britain has changed in the last 140 years
Entertaining And Exciting Examination Of Human Nature	There's some common ground with both ZULU and THE SANDS OF THE KALAHARI . Both were financed by Hollywood executive Joseph Levine , both were co-produced by Stanley Baker and Cy Endfield and Enfield scripted and directed both films which were distributed by Paramount pictures and both have South African locations . ZULU is rightly regarded as one of the greatest movies Britain has ever made ( For the sake of argument ZULU is a British movie regardless of its Hollywood involvement ) and airs on British network TV at least once a year . However SANDS is almost totally unknown . I saw it one afternoon about 15 years ago and until today that was certainly the last time it was broadcast . A pity because although I had very vague memories of it being good I hadn't realized how great it was until today . I was actually speechless after " THE END " caption came up on screen . This is every bit as exciting and entertaining as ZULU I would describe this movie as THE NAKED PREY meets 28 DAYS LATER . A strange combination I know but where as Alex Garland's script tried rather unsuccessfully to mix twin themes involving human nature and survival here Endfield's script explores how far human beings can go in order to survive . Monkeys are also important to the plot believe it or not ! Seeing as the script for THE NAKED PREY was Oscar nominated I can't help feeling that Cy Endfield was short changed at award ceremonies . THE NAKED PREY deserved its accolades but the script here is slightly more dramatic since there's more characterisation involved and there little digs at the human condition if you look closely enough you'll see lust , greed , ignorance and even the old excuse of " I was only following orders " come in for criticism . I would love to discuss the script in more detail but that would involve spoilers and I wouldn't want to spoil this movie for anyone who hasn't seen it . All I will say is . . . . WATCH THIS MOVIE IF YOU GET THE CHANCE . It's intelligent , exciting , very well paced and criminally underrated . The fact that this page and its related message board is composed mainly of people crying " Please release this on DVD " should tell you what a great movie this is
Compelling Drama	A common question to this movie is : If Karen Silkwood and her colleagues are so worried about being contaminated by plutonium at a processing plant then why do they smoke so many cigarettes if they're worried about their health ? Duh Because they volunteered to smoke ! They're adults and as adults they should be able to choose their own paths to hell . Even in 1973 the setting of this bio-pic everyone knew the risks of smoking related diseases and it's their health so if they want to ruin their health why should they be stopped from doing so ? ! ! ! ! MILD SPOILERS ! ! ! ! I don't know if it's irony on the point of director Mike Nichols but there does seem to be an awful lot of cigarette consumption in this movie . Certainly if there's any one wanting to give up the weed they should give this movie a miss . But the point remains that in 1973 ciggie packets carried government health warnings and everyone knew of the dangers even though they didn't want to admit it . Was the plutonium industry quite so honest ? What I liked about this collaboration between director Nichols and screenwriters Alice Arlen and Nora Ephron is that the audience is allowed to think for themselves on the issue of conspiracies and possible state sanctioned murders . Was Karen Silkwood bumped off for knowing too much and for being a trouble maker ? Possibly states the film but much of this is left somewhat ambiguous unlike say JFK by Oliver Stone . Likewise Karen's urine sample . Was it tampered with or was the radiation levels high because Karen was contaminated by a plutonium leak ? Once again the audience is left to make up there own minds Some people have criticized SILKWOOD because it feels very much like one of those cheap TVMs that even having a well known cast can't disguise . I won't disagree too much but this is because films of the period lacked much gloss and you can probably use the opposite argument in that nowadays Hollywood movies feature too much gloss and visual superficiality . Compare SILKWOOD with THE INSIDER or ERIN BROCKOVICH and make up your own mind if one's not glossy enough or the other two are too glossy to be effective . Certainly Nichols directs a scene where Karen walks through detectors and a jump cut occurs where she is undergoing decontamination procedure . I have no idea why but this scene shocked me to the core and this scene alone makes SILKWOOD a very memorable movie
Not The Most Original Thriller But Very Compelling	I saw MESSIAH 2 a few months ago and didn't get to see the original teleplay untill a few days ago and this is far superior to the sequel . Okay it's not a million miles away from the plot of SEVEN but it's still compelling . Much of my praise has to do with Ken Stott's performance as DCI Red Metcalfe a policeman who seems to have led a very unlucky life and someone who has a terrible secret . It'd be easy for Stott to go over the top but he plays the role in a fairly subtle way . Likewise the murders are very shocking but - unlike the sequel where the murders are carried out onscreen in a rather OTT manner - there's actually little violence shown . My only criticisms are that the red herring was too obviously a red herring which meant I wasn't taken in by the shock twist ( And you would probably see the shock twist coming so I won't bother with a spoiler alert ) and that when the real murderer was revealed it seemed both slightly far fetched and caused a few plot holes to appear in the story . If I remember correctly the sequel had similar problems once the murderer was revealed so maybe it'd be a good idea not to make MESSIAH 3
Slightly Overrated	THE WORLD AT WAR is regarded as perhaps the greatest documentary series ever made , but I watch documentaries all the time on The History Channel that are almost every bit as good as this . The one major criticism I have about TWAW is the opening instalment A NEW GERMANY which shows us a newly installed National Socialist government in Germany . I'm not defending fascism but how can a highly regarded series like this not show us any context that brought Hitler to power ? People in Germany turned to Nazism because the victorious allied powers made everyone in 1920s Germany pay a heavy price for loosing the first world war , something the programme fails to emphasise . And on a very ambiguous point is the role of the Soviet Union during the war . TWAW rightfully points out the contribution made by the USSR via episodes like STALINGRAD and RED STAR as the Soviet war machine being the major factor in the defeat of Nazism , but fails to heavily emphasise that much of the shocking loses suffered by the Soviets was down to the military incompetence of Stalin . I don't want to give the impression that I dislike THE WORLD AT WAR , I don't ( And I do recognise that both the theme music by Carl Davis and the title sequence are classics ) , but it's impossible to be objective about history , and that's maybe the problem , the series goes out of its way to give everyone their view on the Second World War and this makes it just too objective though paradoxically that's also one of the programmes strengths , the episode WHIRLWIND ( Which I rate the best in the series ) covers the allied bombing of Germany and features interviews with William Reid a RAF bomber pilot who won the Victoria Cross ( Britain's highest military decoration ) during a bomber raid , then cuts to an interview with film star James Stewart who spent the war with the USAAF 8th airforce , then interviews people who history has forgotten like the people who survived bombing by the British and US air raids . It's the people who history forgets that makes history so interesting
Bleak , Brutal , But Nearly Brilliant	SCUM was released in 1979 and was THE British film everyone was talking about that year . With the advent of the video recorder in the early 80s it was also the film all the angry young men ( Ie 15 year old boys ) wanted to get their hands on and watch as many of them did . The film kept coming up in conversations I had with many of my peers in the early to mid 80s . Conversations would range from " Did you see that bit where . . . ? " all the way through to the film's agenda . But strangely I must have been the last angry young man in Britain to see it when it was shown as part of Channel 4 ' s " Banned " season in 1991 . Without doubt the best thing about SCUM is Ray Winstone's performance as the anti hero Carlin . All the performances in the film are very good but Winstone really shines through , and it's amazing that he didn't become an almost star untill the late 90s . True Ray Winstone basically plays a similar role in almost everything he appears in , but this is his first and best powerhouse performance . Phil Daniels is also worth mentioning as " Stripey " Richards . I bet there's many an angry young man who stood at their bedroom mirror snarling " Wot you f saying you f weirdo ? You want f striping then do ya ? Strangely stardom seems to have just missed Daniels as well . Also look out for some familiar faces like the Cat from RED DWARF , Dave from THE BILL , Uncle Frank from HELLRAISER , that grumpy bloke from BROOKSIDE et al Roy Minton script is good except for one thing SPOILERS the story reaches its natural conclusion when Carlin takes over the hall from Richards and Pongo and then the borstal from Baldy . The story should end there but it goes on for about another 25 - 30 minutes . And the final part of SCUM features its most infamous scene - the rape . Unless you've seen SCUM it's difficult to describe how shocking and graphic it is . In films like SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION , OZ , and SLEEPERS directors cutaway to avoid anything explicit , implying rape rather than showing . Director Alan Clark doesn't imply anything , he shows it on screen in quite sickening detail . Even more sickening is the fact that a guard secretly watches the gang rape ! It truly is a disturbing scene as is the victim's suicide , but since the plot ended about two thirds of the way through the film I can't help thinking it was all so unnecessary and was put in as a sensationalist note in order to court controversy . If that's the case - And I fear it is - then SCUM should be described as a very good low budget drama instead of a masterpiece
Nick Love's First And Perhaps Last Great Film	An auteur is regarded as a director who has a running theme throughout their resume . For example Robert Aldrich is considered a " sadistic " director and whileis films may be tame compared to the video nasty era the likes of TOO LATE THE HERO and ULZANA'S RAID do still come across as compellingly blood thirsty and violent . The films of Martin Scorsese usually involve protagonists being caught in an existentialist quicksand where the more they try and find their goal in life the more they sink into a problem of their own making . Let's not get too caught up in the auteur theory however because much of it is simply down to movie studios assigning scripts to well suited directors " Hey Marty , we've got a script here featuring a deranged loner wanting to join the mob . Bob and Leonardo have already signed on the dotted line . You interested ? " . Nevertheless it's obvious that Nick Love in the years ahead will be honoured in this fashion if only because his films feature blackly comical stories of working class British males fed up with the state of the nation In terms of style and execution THE FOOTBALL FACTORY isn't a million miles away from the likes of TRAINSPOTTING and TWO SMOKING BARALLS . It's very quirky , rather episodic , fairly violent and oh so bloody entertaining . You could say it contains all the flaws of recent British movies like an overuse of the words " FAHKIN ' " and " KANT " but we are talking about the notorious Chelsea headhunters football hooligans and there are admittedly some unlikely coincidences involved such as two of the headhunters burgling a house that belongs to . . . but unlike Love's later OUTLAW you never feel at how contrived these plot twists are which probably says much of the film's entertainment factor . It could also be that the original source was strong in the first place since I get the feeling that Love totally fails as a screenwriter of original material , certainly the problem with OUTLAW was an underdeveloped script with very underwritten characters who lacked a recognisable motive . Here it's obvious but never overstated that the motivation of becoming a hooligan is to belong to something . And unlike in OUTLAW when something funny happens in THE FOOTBALL FACTORY you genuinely do laugh instead of scratching your head wondering if in fact it's supposed to be funny I have to confess that I've seen the feature films of Love back to front . I saw OUTLAW when it opened in the cinema in March , I saw THE BUSINESS a couple of months after that and saw THE FOOTBALL FACTORY for the first time last week . If Nick Love had released his films in that order then I would have said that here is a film maker who is really hitting his stride as his films just get better and better . Unfortunately what this means in reality is that Love is on a downhill curve and that nothing has come close to matching THE FOOTBALL FACTORY . One can only hope that the big screen remake of THE SWEENEY , a TV show well remembered for its mixture of black comedy and violence , will see a return to form for an underrated auteur
A Very Effective Horror Remake	Someone decides to remake a camp horror movie ? One thing's for sure and that's it's got to be better than than the original where a man who swaps heads with a fly walks about a house with head gear that looks like Michael Jackson's Blanket baby costume Hey I enjoyed this remake a lot and is certainly David Cronenberg's most mainstream movie . Like most successful horror movies ( HELLRAISER for example ) it confines itself to human elements like desire , hubris along with a love triangle and uses a limited number of locations in this case most of the action takes place in Seth Brundle's apartment . There's something present here that is totally lacking in nearly every horror movie of the 1970s and 80s and that's pathos , we feel sorry for Brundle as he has his genes spliced and starts to mutate into Brundlefly and in many ways the movie feels more like an update of James Whale's FRANKENSTIEN or a remake of THE WOLF MAN featuring an insect mutation instead of lycanthropy . This type of poignancy was absent from the 1980s where horror " heroes " were Freddy Kruegar who was an ethereal child molester killed by vigilante parents . That alone makes THE FLY unique . The final scene were Brundlefly emerges from the teleport after merging with metal and wants Veronica to end his suffering is a truly touching scene almost unheard of in the genre Being an 1980s movie means we're devoid of CGI and count your blessings for that because the make up here deserved throughly deserved the Oscar it won . True maybe some of the gore is excessive but the final transformation of Brundlefly is very impressive . Jaw dropping in fact . We also get to see undoubtedly Jeff Goldblum's best performance playing Seth Brundle in not a too dissimilar way that Tom Baker played The Doctor in DOCTOR WHO though it's fairly obvious that when Brundle does gymnastics it's a body double since the camera never focuses on Brundle's face . The supporting cast also play their parts as if they're in a serious film , especially Geena Davis which makes THE FLY an even more involving experience . If the actors believe in the story so will the audience An outstanding horror movie from a decade that featured nothing but teenagers getting sliced and diced by serial killers that couldn't be killed , and a horror movie that shouldn't be remade under any circumstances . What's that ? Hollywood have just started on a remake ? No doubt doubt we'll see Leonardo DiCario or Johhny Depp star in a movie bulging with CGI . I'll be going out of my way not to watch it
My Favourite Scene	! ! ! ! SLIGHT SPOILERS ! ! ! ! This is one of the most controversial movies ever made with several councils in Britain banning the movie , but I won't go over that same as I won't comment on other peoples opinions what is the best bit . I will come forward and say I thought the funniest scene in the movie was when Brian was brought by the centurion to speak to Pontious Pilate ( Who has a speech impediment ) and the centurion informs Pilate that Brian's father's name is obviously made up " It's a joke name sir like Silluis Soddus or Biggus Dickus " " What's funny about Biggus Dickus ? I have a dear fwiend called Biggus Dickus " A sentry laughs and Pilate reprimands him . The conversation continues with Biggus Dickus being mentioned once again causing the sentry to crease up with laughter " Right I want him taken away to fwight wabid wild animals . I shall not have my fweinds widiculed in this way " Pilate surveys the woom , oops I mean the room " Does anyone else feel like a giggle when I mention my fwiend Diggus - Dickus . He has a wife you know . Incontenentia . Incontenentia Buttocks " The sentries collapse in whoops of laughter and Brian makes his escape which in my humble opinion is the funniest scene from one of the funniest movies ever made And did anyone think Maximus the hero from GLADIATOR had an equally silly sounding name ?
A Flawed Film But A Great Tribute To Courage	Despite being a classic war movie THE LONGEST DAY is very flawed as a production . Did someone say there's just too many stars in this movie ? If so I agree . Look at the way they're introduced , Mister big name movie star has back to camera , he turns round and wow we're looking at a big name movie star . All this is somewhat distracting . It should also be pointed out that many of the cast are let down by Corneilus Ryan's script . Ryan wrote the definitive account of the last year of the war via his trilogy THE LONGEST DAY , A BRIDGE TOO FAR and THE LAST BATTLE , he was a truly great historian but it's obvious he couldn't master the technicalities of screen writing , his characters are more like caricatures with the Americans all being butch and macho while the Europeans are somewhat eccentric save for a few Englishmen who have stiff upper lips . Like HG Wells with THINGS TO COME Ryan writes dialogue that sounds suspiciously like thought processes , an example being where the rangers fight their way into a bunker only to find it's a decoy and someone says " You mean we came all the way up here for nothing ? " . You can almost imagine the passage in the book saying " it was obvious to the men who had survived the battle , so obvious that no one dare say it but they'd fought their way to the bunker for nothing " Despite that I will congratulate Ryan and everyone else involved in the production for pointing out that the 6th of June was a multi national effort to free Western Europe from the Nazi jackboot , Brits , Yanks and the Free French are represented ( Not sure about the Canadians but ? ) unlike the rather overrated SAVING PRIVATE RYAN that seems to indicate that D Day was an American solo effort THE LONGEST DAY is far more accurate and subjective as to what happened on the day . The script also has the temerity to suggest that the allies didn't win the battle but the Nazis lost due to the military incompetence of Hitler . It should be remembered that despite the overwhelming fire power of the allies they could have easily have been massacred on the beaches and that the Normandy landings was probably the most complicated military endeavor in all of military historyA word of warning - If you ever watch this movie only see the widescreen version because the technical aspects are awesome . The outstanding scene is where a few Americans sit on a bunk playing cards and one of them stands up pleading " Hey guys , anyone got five bucks , ten bucks , anyone got twenty bucks " . At this point the camera quickly pans out and the sound crashes in making the audience realize that the scene is set in a billets with hundreds of soldiers . Needless to say this scene is totally ruined when it's watched on a scanned copy THE LONGEST DAY is a flawed film but a great tribute to the men who fought in that campaign . As the veterans who fought there gather tomorrow for the 60th anniversary along with politicians who didn't have the guts to join the military but are very happy to use it for political gain I'd just like to say a big thank you to all the men who fought there . Thank you to one and all . If it weren't for you I wouldn't be here now
Intelligent Espionage Thriller	In order to get the most enjoyment out of OPERATION CROSSBOW it's necessary to view it as a tense espionage thriller rather than a flat out war film . There's little in the way of battle sequences and what we have instead is something along the lines of a John Le Carre or Frederick Forsyth bestseller where a bunch of secret agents are sent to infiltrate the Nazi V weapon project and right away anything that can go wrong will go wrong I admit that this movie isn't entirely credible and we see a female Nazi test pilot . What the Luftwaffe had female test pilots during the war ? Plus despite what you might learn from this movie the course of the war didn't rest on Nazi V weapon technology because the Germans had effectively lost the war on the Eastern front by this stage . But it's only a movie not a documentary and the good far outweighs the bad . We have an all star cast and despite some of the roles ( I'm thinking of the top billed Sophia Loren and Tom Courtenay ) being superfluous to the plot everyone gives a good performance . It may not be politically correct to point this out but the Germans are shown as human beings believing in their cause rather than goose stepping goons with hideously silly accents , and as I said in the previous paragraph everything that can go wrong for the allied spies does go wrong so we've got a tense and exciting thriller . Recommended
Funny Anytime Of The Year	Edmund Blackadder is one of the greatest characters British television has ever produced . He's cruel , selfish and oh so cunning and it's a bit of a shock to see him undergo a character change and be the kindest man in all of England . But don't worry , in this reworking of Dickens A CHRISTMAS CAROL Blackadder soon turns into the anti hero we all know and hateThis is a side splitting Christmas feast for fans of the BLACKADDER series and we get flashbacks to series two and three of the historical sit-com and a glimpse of how the show might have looked if it continued into the space age . To be honest I don't think a science fiction version of BLACKADDER would have worked well but I did find the concept interesting and highly amusing at the same time . Don't worry if you watch it in the height of summer , you'll still find it funny
Brilliant Crime Thriller	Rightly DIRTY HARRY is respected for being a classic cop movie . Clint Eastwood - who I'm normally not keen on - gives a good performance as Inspector Harry Callahan , it's very well directed and has a violent script with an intelligent subtext on how far law enforcement should go in order to deal with criminals . The script also contains a great deal of wit like " Hey now I know why you're called Dirty Harry " and " My friends call me Alice - and I will take a dare " . But for me what makes this film a classic is the performance of Andy Robinson as the villain . The scene where he's on the school bus conducting a singalong is chilling , and it's a pity he didn't go on to become a major Hollywood name
This Was Expanded Into Something Else	A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON was part of the BBC science show QED that seemed to be marketed to an audience that had no interest in science . There was an edition where the production crew showed what happens when you explode gas canisters , or set fire to a cloud of custard powder ( It explodes like napalm ) , or what happens to a lift when the braking system fails . There was also an edition with a young boy with an unfortunate condition that makes him swear without being able to control it so the cameras followed him and his mother out shopping in a crowded supermarket . You can guess what happens next can't you . QED often seemed to have a voyerism to it . I digress A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON is a speculative documentary of what would happen if Britain suffered a nuclear attack . We're shown via specially shot scenes and still pictures of the damage and terminal consequences wrought upon the people of Britain with the narration ending that " Would the survivors envy the dead ? " Has it rung any bells yet ? Let me remind you of a few scenes featured : Meat cooking in a butchers window due to the heat generated from the initial nuclear flash , milk bottles melting on door steps along with childrens toys . That's right , much of the footage shot and stills used were expanded , edited or re-used by director / producer Mick Jackson in his nuclear holocaust docudrama THREADS a year later . A couple of points 1 ) Some of the footage seen here is absent from THREADS ( Like the meat cooking in the butcher shop ) down to the fact that it interferes with the context of the docudrama . People have been panic buying for days before the bomb drops in THREADS hence meat cooking in shop windows contradicts this scenario 2 ) It's clearly stated that the smoke and dust from a thermo-nuclear war would lead to a " nuclear winter " . Considering both A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON and THE DAY AFTER were produced at exactly the same time it's clear that THE DAY AFTER has ignored the concept of a nuclear winter on purpose since it would have been known to the scientific community . One can't help thinking TDA has ignored the nuclear winter on purpose rather than through ignorance . Indeed on its broadcast critics of TDA like Lord Denis Healey pointed out that the American TVM didn't go far enough pointing out the consequences of global nuclear war and I couldn't help thinking that was a straight referrance to this documentary A GUIDE TO ARMAGEDDON is even more obscure than its offspring THREADS which still has a small but very hard core fan base . It would have been perfect as a companion piece on the THREADS DVD but like the cold war seems to have been consigned to forgotten history
Very Effective Thriller But Ultimately Overrated	It's impossible to comment on SILENCE OF THE LAMBS as being a mere film . Its release was a watershed in popular culture and has influenced a myriad of imitations that are far too numerous to mention . Much of this success is down to director Jonathan Demme who has made the film so effective by coming up with the strikingly simple idea of filming everything in dim lighting which gives SILENCE a moody and brooding atmosphere that was absent from movies in the previous decade . Ironically enough this is as typical of 90s film making as MANHUNTER was of 80s movies . Howard Shore's score also helps the proceedings and Jodie Foster gives a sublime nuanced performance as vulnerable heroine Clarice Starling . Watch the scenes closely when Clarice is in the company of men , don't you get the feeling she has a phobia about the male of the species . Is she a victim of sexual abuse in her childhood ? A lesbian ? We never find out but Foster's performance is multi layered and it's a pity this aspect is never explored in HANNIBAL which sadly deletes this aspect to Clarice Sadly SILENCE was released with a tidal wave of hype which the film doesn't live up to . Who can forget the stories that upon seeing this at the cinema certain audience members wanted armed escorts back to their cars ! I'm sorry but despite being a good thriller it's not that good and I fail to see how people were turned into quivering jellies unable to sleep with the lights off . I'm also afraid to say that much of the awards heaped upon the film aren't that well deserved either . Foster deserved the Oscar as did the film and possibly Demme too but did Ted Tally for his adapted screenplay ? All he seems to have done is to copy the best bits of Harris's novel wholesale into the screenplay without making an effort to improve anything . and i'll probably be accused of sacrilege but the more times I see this film the more times I ask myself how did Hopkins win the Oscar for Best Actor ? I don't even think Hopkins should have qualified for the Best Actor category since the role isn't on screen long enough and his performance is slightly hammy . Hannibal as played by Hopkins resembles something along the lines of a paedophile rather than a serial killer who has maimed , murdered and munched on adults . Despite having some reservations of Brian Cox as Hannibal in MANHUNTER you do believe his burly presence does have the physical strength to overpower his victims , not so Hopkins I know it's very difficult , perhaps even impossible , but the best way to enjoy this movie is to erase from your mind the fact that it's one of only three movies to have picked up the Oscar in all five main categories , the fact that it made headlines about being the most terrifying film committed to celluloid , and the fact that it stands as the 28th best movie ever on this website . It is a very good thriller but one that is ultimately disappointing after hearing of the hype surrounding it
I Remember This Haunting Political Thriller	SPOILERS TO PLOT I remember this being shown on Channel 4 in 1987 . It starts off with a young student played by a then unknown John Hannah jogging through the streets of Glasgow to the accompaniment of a wonderful pseudo operatic sound track . Stopping at a bridge the student witnesses the murder of a child by the mysterious Brond . As the story progresses the student finds himself used as a pawn by Brond to trap a Scottish nationalist terrorist cell and a top IRA terrorist END SPOILERS BROND is a political thriller you'll either love or hate . It was similar to several serials at the time like THE ONE GAME or WIPEOUT where you could easily find yourself confused as to what's happening as the plot unravels . You could also find Michael Caton Jones directorial style very pretentious and irritating but I loved it . I especially loved the haunting operatic sound track and feel slightly sad that no one has updated this page as to who composed the music for the show . And watch out for the appearance of a Special Branch officer who is played by Christopher Ellison . It's very easy to see why he was cast as Frank Burnside on THE BILLI can't wait to see this again . Any chance of a repeat Channel 4 ? Update Oct 2005 : Thank you very much for the info about the title music
Intelligent Drama About Military Morality	We don't see very many films or dramas on the history channel here in Britain . I know the American version shows them because American reviewers have mentioned this on this very website , but I'm not very keen on this happening over here because before you know it we might be seeing THE GREEN BERETS , BRAVEHEART and WE WERE SOLDIERS appearing on the channel , poor movies and poor history to boot in my opinion . At the weekend we were treated to BREAKER MORANT . As I said I'm not keen on the history channel transmitting feature films but I'll forgive them this time because it's a very good movie and very good history . BREAKER MORANT is the dramatisation of a real life incident during the Boer war , the first " dirty war " of the 20th century , where three Australian officers Harry Morant , John Handcock and George Witton are on trial for their lives for the murder of boer POWs and of a German missionary . What I love about this film is that unlike a lot of other movies with an anti-war / anti - military injustice agenda is that it shows the difficult situations soldiers will always find themselves in . The men on trial are victims , victims of politics and of a wider picture . With the killing of the missionary Germany wants to intervene in the conflict on the side of the boers , not to protect the noble South African farmers from British aggression but to get their hands on the region's gold and diamond mines . In order to stop this happening the British government needs scapegoats in order to hang and Morant , Witton and Handcock were to be hung out to dry so it's the politicians of the time who are to blame for this miscarriage of justice , not the military , and it'd be interesting to note what people who campaign for pardons for the British soldiers shot for " cowardice " during the first world war make of this tale . The three characters on trial here are victims of a grave injustice but you can't help feeling because they " were only obeying orders " sympathy for them will be in short supply from a modern day perspective . I'm probably correct in saying that anyone who's served in the military can see far more clearly the injustice done than any of the " professional anti-war brigade " . BREAKER MORANT isn't a movie than can be used for anyone's hidden agenda , and for that we should be gratefulIt's fairly obvious BREAKER MORANT is based upon a stage play . The central setting is a military court room with much of the story told in flashback . Director Bruce Beresford handles the action scenes very well but in this type of story the most important aspect is the cast and their acting , and the director gets the best out of his cast especially Edward Woodward ( Normally an actor I don't like ) who gives a career best performance and Jack Thompson . My only criticism of the casting is that a couple of actors playing British characters let their Aussie accents slip a little , but I'm nitpicking . Just to sum up this is a very intelligent story of a dirty war , dirty politics and dirty justice which will appeal to serious historians and former servicemen rather than professional pacifists
Hold Onto Your Sides - They May Split	Usually when I write a review for a comedy on this site I normally state I detest the comedy genre and when I write a review involving a sequel I usually state that I detest the whole idea of sequels , so what do I think of NAKED GUN 3 : THE FINAL INSULT ? I loved it from the opening parody of THE UNTOUCHABLES to the Oscars climax I sat through this comedy classic with a massive grin upon my face . Don't watch this movie expecting high art , sophistication or even originality , but that's what makes THE FINAL INSULT so great seeing parodies of THELMA AND LOUISE , WHITE HEAT , ESCAPE FROM ALCATRAZ ( Spot the Fred Ward connection ? ) , not to mention a few gags that owe a lot to Benny Hill . I loved every minute of this , especially the prison scenes
Very Bizarre And Funny Black Comedy	might have a bit of a problem in trying to describe what THE BLACK AND BLUE LAMP is all about . It's a sequel to THE BLUE LAMP ( The movie that introduced Britain to PC George Dixon ) along with being both social satire and social commentary . After being arrested for the murder of Dixon Tom Riley finds himself transported through a time warp into the late 1980s where he is told by the local CID that he'll be confessing to the murder or else his genitals are getting cut off ! Riley is shocked to hear policemen use this type of language , it's just not on guv , the coppers always play by the rules and they just don't use this type of language . Riley isn't the only person shocked because arresting officer PC Hughes another character transported from the 1950s has joined Riley in the present day As the story continues it turns out that Tom Riley has a present day doppleganger who is a homosexual and that PC George Dixon was the head of a paedophile ring who organised " babysitting parties " ! We also see policemen beating up suspects so badly they die and a shoot out inside the police station , but the most memorable scene is the ending where the Tom Riley of the present day is transported back to the 1950s where on being informed that the CID want to grill him screams " WOT YA FINK I AM ? A KIN ' SAUSAGE My review hasn't done this teleplay justice . It's very bizarre , bitterly cynical and very amusing as we're reminded as to how policemen are portrayed in film and television since the days of bobbies on the beat
Underatted And Compelling	I've never been much of a fan of Spielberg . I know he's the most popular director of all time but I find his films old fashioned and mawkish . In short the idea of Spielberg directing an adaptation of perhaps the greatest science fiction novel ever written and starring Tom Cruise didn't make me do a bee line for the cinema entrance especially when initial feedback was disappointing . In fact I didn't bother with seeing it on DVD either and I only watched it on network TV by chance . However I spent the next two hours being very impressed by the mis en scene and narrative . This could be Spielberg's most underrated work First thing first though . Many of the people who dislike this movie seem to be confused by the alien arrival . The aliens certainly have not lain dormant in the Earth for thousands of years , this is only speculated upon by a TV journalist . It's similar to the line of dialogue in 28 DAYS LATER about " outbreaks in Paris and New York " leading to a large percentage of its audience believingtherest of the world has been destroyed by the Rage virus . The aliens in fact have newly arrived via " the lightening " and while there is no logical reason for them to have burrowed underground it does allow , quite deliberately , for the director to have a slow and stunning build up of impact aesthetics It's this impact aesthetic that makes this remake of WOTW such a compelling film . The initial scene of the tripods coming out of the ground and their extermination of the humans via death ray is simply one of the best things Spielberg has done with his work . Later on he does a remarkable understated scene where refugees stop at a rail crossing and a blazing locomotive drives past . It should be pointed out that my criticism of Spielberg's " old fashioned " type of directing isn't to be taken as a criticism within this film and Spielberg is astoundingly effective in the scene where Ray dispatches Ogilvy . It's very similar to the 1930s gangster films where someone is killed just as the camera pans away to the victims shadow as they're shot . Considering this is a Summer blockbuster made for a family audience you can understand why it's necessary to kill a paedophile in an understated manner There are a couple of problems that should be mentioned . One is that the aliens are rather enigmatic . Well's original novel also has enigmatic invaders from Mars and when you know little about the species invading Planet Earth that makes them even more frightening . Science fiction writers through the decades have occasionally continued he trend , an obvious example being John Wyndham's The Kraken Wakes . However when the aliens do appear you can't help thinking that they're the exact same aliens from INDEPENDENCE DAY . Couldn't someone have come up with something a little bit more interesting ? Say what you like about DOCTOR WHO but always remember that an alien in that show could be anything from a robot to a ten foot condom , not something from a Summer blockbuster ten years previously . I wasn't too impressed with Cruise as Ray but be honest Tom Cruise is such a genuinely nice guy in real life that it's impossible to think of him as a blue collar worker having to kill to survive , and let's be thankful we didn't get Sly , Arnie or Bruce saving us from the aliens . Perhaps the biggest problem is one of subtext . In the original novel the Martians are surrogate Europeans colonizing the third world . In the 1953 movie the Martians are obviously aggressive communists come to destroy capitalist democracy . Here however while there's parallels with the invasion of Iraq there's little to mull over except for a throwaway line that " occupations always fail " This is one of the few Summer blockbusters from recent years that while having all the basic ingredients like star power and explosions is very much more the sum of its parts . Much of this may be due to and its aftermath . It would be churlish to have American cities and their inhabitants reduced to dust while a character cracks one liners and the makers know this . Hence we have a film that despite a few obvious flaws is serious , downbeat but most of all compelling . I sincerely hope this will in time become considered as one of Steven Spielberg's masterworks
A Firm Favourite	The original film version of THE TIME MACHINE is almost certainly the best adaption of any of H G Wells work and deserves its status as a classic SF film . That's not to say it's without flaws , it starts very slowly and I found Filby's obviously false Scottish accent very irritating ( Notice when a Scotsman appears in a SF film or series his accent is poor ? Scottie from STAR TREK , Jamie Mcrimmon from DOCTOR WHO etc ) , but once the hero goes off into the future it's entertainment all the way . Special mention should go to the very intelligent script , it does simplify much of Wells subtext but also adds an anti war theme , you can actually believe the hero's thought processes came out of the mouth of Wells , and during the nuclear war the Earth show's its anger at mankind with a series of devastating volcanic eruptions . Is this the first time that " the Gia Theory " has appeared on film ? Perhaps the greatest compliment I can pay this film is that it reminded me of the early DOCTOR WHO stories . Praise indeed
The Technical Points Make It A Classic	I can't help believing THE THIRD MAN is a film highly regarded because of its technical achievements rather than by its story . The plot itself is rather simplistic : American writer Holly Martins gets a message from his friend Harry Lime offering him a job in Vienna and when he arrives in the city he discovers Harry is dead . There's a mystery involved in how Harry died but because everyone is so familiar with the plot twists ( This film was made nearly 20 years before I was born ) there's no real surprises as to the story The film ( Can we describe it as " film noir " ? ) succeeds because of its breath taking technical achievements . from the opening shot we're shown a montage of shots of post war Vienna , some real life film footage , some specifically shot for the movie with a voice over that is breath takingly conversational . When ever a film opens with a voice over it's always done by some dour American but here it's said by some cheerful English chappie . This alone sticks out in the mind and clearly states that it's a ! ! ! ! ! British ! ! ! ! film . I don't mean a " British made film " financed with American money , I mean a film that was made by a British studio . Of course Carol Reed has an eye for an American market hence his casting of Orson Welles as Harry Lime and it's Welles casting that helps make THE THIRD MAN the screen legend that it is . He has very few lines but Welles speech about the cuckoo clock was ad libbed by the actor and is one of the most memorable lines in cinema . But for me the stand out aspect of the movie is the Oscar winning cinematography by Robert Krasker , it's impossible to think of this movie without thinking of shadows against walls There are a couple of flaws though . Considering Austria is in such a bad state after losing the war a couple of years previously I couldn't help noticing that scotch is freely available ! I know the black market is booming ( That's part of the plot ) but even so th way people reach for a bottle and pour themselves a stiff drink seems very unlikely , I mean how many people do you know that drink that amount of booze ? and we're in a period of time where strong liqueur is very easy to acquire . Can I just repeat that because the over familiarity of the story the plot holds no surprises ? Perhaps I ' , the first person to point this out by saying I don't like the score . Anton Karras plays the zither and after a few scenes I found myself being irritated by it
The Greatest Documentary On The Doctor	I have seen documentaries on DOCTOR WHO in the past but to be honest they're almost always disappointing at best . Not so with with 30 YEARS IN THE TARDIS which is the greatest documentary ever to have featured British telefantasy's best loved icon . What I absolutely loved about this tribute was seeing stuff I thought I'd never see like a TV advert for ice lollies featuring the Doctor or some 8mm silent film footage of William Hartnell opening an air show or the winner of a " Build your Doctor Who monster " or what a Dalek playsuit looks like on a young boy . This is an absolutely amazing documentary for casual fans or diehard ones like myself . The fact that 30 YEARS IN THE TARDIS was made by fellow fans really shines through . Take for example the opening of the young boy on his way home and sees a post box suddenly transform into a Dalek . I can testify that as a child this also happened to me . As a child dustbins often did the same , and bollards . Yes I know that sounds extremely sad , but in a mundane cynical cruel world of adulthood I really miss the days when I looked forward to seeing the next DOCTOR WHO episode on a Saturday teatime . Thank you to everyone involved in making this great documentary
My Visit To The Cinema	Don't you just hate cinemas ? No matter where you sit you always end up surrounded by people who spend their time chatting amongst themselves as to the events on screen 30 seconds before they happen . If we're after a running commentary we'll buy the DVD thank you very much . Add to this unattended mad mental kids running around wild . In fact many years ago our local newspaper saw a no holds barred letter of complaint about a screening of 3 MEN AND A LITTLE LADY which referred to foul mouthed juvenile delinquents in the audience . And on top of all this I'm a chainsmoker and cinema chains don't allow patrons to poison themselves or others with nicotine so as a rule I don't visit cinemas . But it's a rule I broke in order to see THE TWO TOWERS because I was literally dying to see it . So I booked my ticket well in advance for the premier screening in Rothesay on the 26th of January , popped into the cinema that night and demanded to be entertained SPOILERS I was entertained and more , but I later had some reservations . On a technical level TTT not only does not disappoint but it outdoes FELLOWSHIP in terms of both scope and scale but this doesn't automatically make it as some people have claimed a better film . The battles of Helms Deep and Isengard are truly breath taking and out do anything Hollywood has done , but ironically by concentrating on spectacle TTT feels more like a Hollywood film than FELLOWSHIP . And all this spectacle causes a problem for Peter Jackson - How does he finish all these impossibly epic set pieces ? The simple answer is he can't ! As several reviewers have mentioned the fractured storyline comes to the rescue of the director in much the same way as Gandalf rides to the rescue of Helms Deep : Cut to the most breath taking calvary charge in the history of cinema , cut to the Ents attacking Isengard and then cut back to Helms Deep where our heroes have snatched victory from the jaws of defeat , except they did so mainly off screen . It's as if the director has used the fractured storyline in order to get himself out of a corner . Likewise reviewers on this site have noticed the story telling technique hides several plot holes involving characters appearing and disappearing to and from the story . Of course you don't notice these flaws at the time due to the awesome onscreen visuals but there is one major criticism you can level at TTT as soon as the credits roll and that's a lack of an emotional impact . Yes you'll gasp and cheer and feel your heart race but you won't burst into tears . Remember the scenes in the first film where the fellowship escape into the mountains after Gandalf has confronted the Balrog or the departure of Boromir ? Remember how your throat tightened and you nearly had a tear run down your face ? Of course you do because these two scenes are amongst the most moving and heart wrenching in cinema history . Unfortunately there is no similar equivalent in TTT . And the film also cries out for a flawed but noble ambigous anti hero like Boromir in a story where everyone is either good or evil and no in between , though this is almost certainly the fault of Tolkien rather than Jackson who does manage to get the best out of his cast in film lacking in character development . Special mention goes to Andy Serkis who alas seems to have missed out on nominations for best supporting actor , Brad Dourif who plays a very slimy villain , and Bernard Hill who made me forget that this is the same actor who played Yosser Hughes in BOYS FROM THE BLACKSTUFF 20 years ago . But I couldn't help but miss Sean Bean and I suppose casting him as Faramir twin brother of Boromir would have been just too obviousBut despite my criticisms I enjoyed TTT immensely and for three magical hours I forgot all about my nicotine addiction and the world outside . No doubt the audience at the Rothesay cinema felt the same way as me as we watched this film in a hushed silence . We laughed at the right bits , gasped at the technical achievements , but no one cried which means I can only award THE TWO TOWERS
Superb Entertainment	This is a touching story . When Gromit found himself second to Wallace's affection I thought my heart would break . Poor Gromit , poor poor Gromit as he packs his bags and leaves the house my heart was breaking and the tears were flowing down my cheeks . Did I mention that Gromit is a plasticine dog in an animated movie ? No ? Believe me I'm not some bleeding heart animal loving do gooder - I'm a very prolific IMDb reviewer perhaps the most cynical one on this site and I was totally moved and entertained by this animated film . If I enjoyed it how can anyone else not enjoy it ? THE WRONG TROUSERS is the second and best of the Wallace & Gromit shorts . As with Nick Parks other work the animation where animals have idiosyncratic humanized personalities is superb but its the script co - written by Park and former DOCTOR WHO scriptwriter Bob Baker that is so enjoyable . The plotting and character interaction makes it touching and exciting and even this childless cynic enjoyed every single moment of it If you're a parent and are wondering how to keep the kids quiet for over an hour maybe you should show them an episode from the new DOCTOR WHO series followed by THE WRONG TROUSERS . If that doesn't work as family entertainment nothing will
One Of The Best Movies Of The 1980s	The 1980s in general and the mid 1980s in particular aren't highly regarded where pop culture is concerned , this is most especially true in cinema where films seemed to be written around their soundtrack in much the same way as Hollywood movies nowadays seem to be written around their special effects . PLATOON is one of the very few films from that period that has an emotional impact , an impact that it still retains while watching it in 2003 . Everyone else seems to have mentioned what makes PLATOON a classic anti-war ( Note it's anti-war , not anti American or anti soldier ) movie along with being a classic movie , so I won't go over old ground except to say THAT death scene is up there with all the other tear jerking scenes from 20th century cinema , don't be ashamed to say you cried If PLATOON has a flaw it's in its duality , there's the good Sarge / bad Sarge , good officer / bad officer , good white guy / bad white guy , good black guy / bad black boy etc which is maybe a bit clichéd and possibly leads me to believe Stone is making an excuse / reason that the Americans lost in Vietnam because that spent so much fighting each other rather than the VC ( Though I do concede I'm possibly misinterpreting that as an excuse or even a reason since no one will confuse the politics of Stone with the politics of John Wayne ) while Taylor's character comes across as being more of a literary device rather than a real human being , but these are minor flawsIt's a shame to see war films from the last few years devoid of scathing anti-war sentiments like the ones seen here . PLATOON screams at you " War is hell and whatever the rights and wrongs of conflict you need a bloody good reason to wage war . Vietnam wasn't a good enough reason to sacrifice human lives "
I'm Not Gay But I Loved This	The image that flashes through my mind when I hear the word " Aussies " is of a bunch of butch hard drinkers who enjoy nothing better than waking in a police cell after a drinking session followed by a bar room brawl . . . . and that's just the women . According to my mate Dr Sebastian who spends a lot of time down under this is a laughably cliched stereotype and Australians are the nicest friendliest people on Earth . Mind you Seb is a six foot three Scotsman so everyone's nice to him . You can see what I'm getting at about stereotypes though ? because strangely BOOTMEN does feature the type of Aussies who take a drink and commit crimes and enjoy the sound of knuckle against cheekbone . Even stranger despite the mythical portrayal of Australians in this movie no one really gives the main protagonist Sean a hard time for wanting to become a dancer even though he works at a steel mill . A worker at an Australian steel mill wants to become a dancer and no one accuses him of being " A bloody wooftah " , now that takes some swallowing and I guess that's why some people dislike BOOTMEN , it is slightly obvious that the story was written around the dance sequences but it could have been far worse , it could have been a plagaristic cross between THE FULL MONTY and BILLY ELLIOT or a camp Baz Luhrmann type production but at least BOOTMEN has an identity all of its own . BOOTMEN is a simple story of people trying to pursue their dreams , it's funny , romantic , sometimes gritty and foul mouthed , sometimes violent but always entertaining with an absolutely brilliant dance sequence at the end and is by far the greatest Australian film since ROMPER STOMPER . If you've ever seen the dance troupe Stomp or these idents on BBC1 featuring the dancers and thought " Hmm that lifts the spirits " then you'll enjoy this movie . I know I certainly did
It Was Twenty Years Ago Today . . .	. . . Give or take a few hours of course but I still have vivid memories of this ultimate concert . As soon as it was announced I wished I could have attended it but as you can imagine tickets for the Wembly gig were somewhat difficult to get your hands on . I did hear via a friend of mine Rab Kincaid that his sister Vicki got a ticket and would be going to London on the 13th of July , I did feel some self sorrow because the previous Summer my sister acting as courier wanted to know if I wanted to go out with Vicki but I turned her down . She was a very nice girl with a highly developed body for a teenager but from the neck upwards she looked disturbingly like Celtic footballer star Maurice Johnstone with a mullet hairstyle . i wasn't and never will be the sort of guy who'd ever go out with a girl for ulterior motives but it did flash through my mind in the early Summer of 1985 that if I'd been going out with Vicki I might have been able to get a Live Aid concert ticketStill not to worry it was going to be broadcast live on television and I was really looking forward to seeing my musical heroes U2 perform . I kept rubbing my hands wondering what their set list was going to be while I played their live LP Under A Blood Red Sky to death , I was really hoping they were going to perform I Will Follow . So on the day of the concert I was wishing the dross supporting acts like Status Quo , Howard Jones , Paul Young and Adam Ant ( Who played the title track of his new album ! ) would just go away and let Bono and the boys show the audience how it's done . At 5 O'clock the transmission alternatively switched from Wembley to JFK Staduim Philidelphia where we saw the Bryan Adams set . Jack Nicholson said we're going back to London to hear a band who aren'1t afraid to speak their mind and U2 came on to perform the appropriate Sunday Bloody Sunday . Unfortunately their second track was Bad a song I've never taken to and Bono spent so much time jumping into the audience to get a girl to dance with him that they had to scrap their third track Pride . In fact I thought their whole set was a major disappointment that I couldn't believe the positive feed back they got in the press later and there was no one more surprised than the band themselves ! Major disappointment aside I still stayed in to watch the rest of the concert most of which I watched on my sister's portable black and white TV and it wasn't until a few days later that I started digesting what a monumental event it was where Queen stole the show with their medley , where Bob Geldof swore live on air ( In those days bad language on television was still very rare ) , the dominance of British music that saw every act at Wembly hail from the British Isles and where a third of the acts at the American concert were also British , and the strange fact within a couple of years many of the acts at Wembly had disappeared from the charts altogether . But without doubt the abiding memory for me was the entire lack of cynicism . Artists went out of their way to give a concert while people went out of their way to put their hands in their pockets . Even if you want to be cynical then you can't deny that money was raised and it went to humanitarian Non Governmental Organisations ( NGOs ) that saved countless human lives . That was the difference between Live Aid in 1985 and Live 8 in 2005
A Beautiful Film	it's strange how Hollywood is responsible for so much bad history being foisted upon the common knowledge of humanity . The Battle Of Little Big Horn is perceived to have been a glorious defeat for the 7th Calvary and where George A Custer was the last soldier to die . The defeat of that unit was anything but glorious for the regiment who put up a very poor fight while there's no evidence that Custer died as the last man standing . Modern perception of historical events is full of factual mistakes that can be laid firmly at the door of Hollywood The mutiny on The Bounty is another example of Hollywood revisionist history . Since so many people have seen some tyrant being cruel to the noble Errol Flynn , Clark Gable or Marlon Brando it enters their mind that it must be somehow true . What I loved about this version is that it's very much accurate where the known facts are concerned . Captain Bligh might have been an authoritarian but there's no way he could in the context of the time be described as a cruel tyrant . On British naval ships at the time the Captain's word was the word of god but unlike the British army at the time where more often than not officers bought their rank the Royal Navy was a meritocracy where Captain's started at the very bottom of the ladder and worked their way up , bumbling fools didn't get very far in this service . It's also interesting to note that Bligh had a trio of deserters flogged rather than hanged , an act of compassion that contributes to his downfall . The film doesn't go into great detail about the fate of the mutineers but it insinuates that they eventually ended up murdering one another on Pitcairn leaving just one survivor . Like thieves there's no honour amongst mutineers which history like this film should judge as being in the wrong THE BOUNTY is a beautiful film experience . I watched it on a widescreen TV via DVD and if David Lean had directed this he could not have done a better job than Roger Donaldson has . You can almost feel the sunlight touch you thanks to Arthur Ibbetsen's cinematography and it's impossible not to mention the then mainly unknown cast . With the exception of Olivier , Fox and Gibson probably the most well known actor to a 1984 audience would be Bernard Hill who had won a BAFTA the previous year for BOYS FROM THE BLACKSTUFF , it's amazing to think at this time very few people had heard of Liam Neeson or Daniel Day Lewis . Some people might have heard of Anthony Hopkins but only if they'd seen MAGIC and A BRIDGE TOO FAR and had a very good memory for faces . Hopkins gives a great and sympathetic performance , one of the best of his career in fact There's not too much to criticise about THE BOUNTY . I did feel that Vangelis electronic soundtrack didn't really go with the visuals , and the interior of the ship seemed just a little too clean to be convincing while I would have liked to have seen the journey of the marooned Bligh and his loyalists ( A journey so amazing that if a fiction writer wrote it no one would have believed it ) in a little more detail but these are very minor criticisms and this is a very good historical adventure film
One Of The Funniest Films Ever Made	I don't like comedies but I do enjoy much of the Farrelly Brothers stuff and THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY is their greatest achievment which is probably down to their casting . Ben Stiller is perfect as Ted while Matt Dillon is absolutely outstanding as sleazy ( And boy do I mean sleazy ) private investigator Pat Healy . My only criticism is of Cameron Diaz who's slightly bland , but she is attractive and that's all that mattersI suppose how funny you'll find this film is down to your own subjective opinion of what should or shouldn't be made fun of . I'll be honest and say that jokes featuring stalking , serial killers , semen , spiking doggie snacks with drugs and learning difficulties are all fair game , and perhaps I'm being too honest in saying I laughed out loud at these serious subjects being made fun of ? Sorry if this review has been very short but I find it difficult to write hundreds of words about a film I love
Brilliant Brit Comedy	Strange to believe that WITHNAIL AND I , a film that is regarded as today one of the best British comedies ever made flopped spectacularly on its initial release in 1987 and maybe it's not too easy to see why . In the late 1980s the British film industry was in an absolute mire and the very phrase itself " British film " made a homegrown audience roll its eyes and think of art-house crap directed by Derek Jarman or Peter Greenaway . Any British film no matter the genre or how good it was always got tarred with the same brush in those days . Years later actor Ralph Brown ( Danny ) was asked " Why is it a good film ? " to which he replied " Because there's no crap bits in it " which simplifying the truth . WITHNAIL AND I is a very rare type of British comedy since it has been developed to its utmost potential . All too often British comedies of the last 20 years feel like they've been rush released before the script has been used to its full potential but not with this comedy classic because nearly every scene couldn't possibly be any funnier . Everyone has their favourite scene like the one in the Irish bar or the tea room or the one with bull but for me the stand out scene has got to be the urine sample down at the police station . It's also interesting to note that it's a movie without any female characters and feels both homo-erotic and laddish at the same time . It also carries an emotional and poignant impact at the end , something all of us can relate to when our best friend finds a new best friend and we become quickly forgotten All the cast are excellent but Richard E Grant is nothing short of superb and it's probably his performance as much as Bruce Robinson's smart script . You could argue that because Withnail is a camp , self centered , mincing thespian Grant is playing an extension of himself and while this may be true he's certainly enjoyable to watch here . Ironically enough I'd have thought he'd be brilliant as the title character in DOCTOR WHO but it was co-star Paul McGann who got the role in the 1996 American TVM and what a major disappointment he was . As it stands both actors will probably be best remembered for their cracking roles in this movie
Explains What It's Like To Be Male	SPOILERS How would anyone be able to relate to Travis Bickle ? He's a freak show , a fantasist and a loner who watches porn films in cinemas with a cola in one hand and a candy bar in another and to all intents and purposes is an assassin and a stalker , but he also strikes a cord with any man who's been angry and young and rejected . He's an outsider that society has turned its back on : " Why won't you talk to me " is the heartbreaking question every young angry man screams at the world when he's very aloneScorsese directs Paul Schrader's low concept script on a shoestring budget - That's not a criticism , quite the reverse because this leads to a hyper-realism and it'd be impossible to think that a major Hollywood studio would produce something like this nowadays where everything is about making money while playing it safe : A character study of a disturbed loner ? 12 year old prostitutes ? Vigilante executions ? Too controversial , not enough explosions , not enough CGI . If there's a flaw in the screenplay it's at the end where Travis wipes out the pimp business and becomes a hero which left me confused . Doesn't society punish murderers even if they kill scum that use 12 year olds as prostitutes ? Even if he was cleared by the jury surely Travis would still have stood trial for murder ? but this is never referred to in the closing scenes , but I guess this is a comment on how society can quickly make a hero out of a villain and how a nobody can become the talk of the town , but still it seems to go against the grain of the script where we - Or at least the young males in the audience - recognise that an uncaring society is the villain where as Travis is the hero all along Despite the flawed ending of the screenplay ( Which is superb untill the last ten minutes ) this is still a movie masterpiece with Scorsese getting an acting tour de force from his cast . Jodie Foster as a child who sells her body on the streets of New York , a totally disturbing , brilliant performance , and DeNiro and Keitel in the same movie ! I've no idea if this is just hype but I heard all the stage schools in the USA were swamped at the time by applications from applicants in Compton , Hell's Kitchen , South Central and The Bronx who'd seen DeNiro and Keitel in the " I'm hip " scene ( A scene that was totally adlibbed by the actors ) and decided that acting could be cool and macho after all . As I said I don't know how true this is but the performances of these two actors has given a massive amount of credibility to the acting profession and it really is sad to see the DeNiro of today churn out so much garbage . This his greatest performance . I also rate it as Scorsese's best movie As a footnote may I recommend to all the angry young men reading this review to track down the albums of Matt Johnson aka The The especially the mid 80s albums SOUL MINING and INFECTED which have lyrics that could have been written by Travis himself . Matt is a great fan of Scorsese and it shows
Review Of The Director's Cut	I've decided not to review the 1981 dubbed cinematic release of DAS BOOT . Instead I've decided to review Wolfgang Petersen's director's cut which is far closer to the miniseries version which most readers will be familiar with When someone makes an anti war statement it's important that they differentiate between being " anti war " and " anti military " . The Brits don't seem to know the difference and seem keen to make anti - military / anti - soldier self loathing war movies with Paul Greengrass's RESURRECTED a good example . Having suffered the tragedy of Vietnam the Americans finally made anti - war movies that were a million miles removed from the old John Wayne and Errol Flynn star vehicles where a man wipes out 30 enemy soldiers single handed without suffering a scratch . But when it comes to making anti - war movies that shows the horrors of war and the courage of men in battle the Germans are top of the league , heads and shoulders above everyone else . This is because present day Germans realize that the enemy isn't the other side - it's war itself that's the enemy and DAS BOOT is a great example of this thinking The story starts slowly by introducing us to the crew via the war correspondent who are celebrating a last night ashore before they sail on their mission to sink British convoys sailing from America to Britain carrying vital supplies for the war effort against Nazi Germany . This is where DAS BOOT is superb , I really felt empathy for these crew man . Okay I didn't want them sinking British ships but I didn't want them to die either an opinion that shouldn't be taken lightly since my paternal grandfather was a merchant seaman during the war while my maternal grandfather was a crewman on a destroyer . The fact the crew of U-96 are presented as being utterly human and for this Brit hoping they make it home in one piece is a great achievement DAS BOOT was nominated for several Oscars and it's not difficult to see why . Watch it on widescreen television with stereo surround and you'll be amazed with the very clear sound effects and sound editing . Perhaps the best technical aspect is the cinematography where during moments of crisis the camera shoots along the length of the U - boat as it follows crewmen rushing about . When a foreign language movie is nominated for several Oscars you just know it's good ! ! ! ! ! SLIGHT SPOILERS ! ! ! ! This is a superb movie but it's not perfect . Being a German movie Nazis feature at one point but none of them are crew members , the only Nazis featured are the crew of a supply ship who have who have never seen a days fighting in their lives . It's understandable for German film makers to play down the courage of Nazi party members of the Second World War but it should also be remembered that the Waffan SS were exclusively composed of party members and they were the most feared fighting force of the conflict . CROSS OF IRON ( My favourite movie featuring WW 2 ) does make the valid point that because someone isn't a fan of the Nazis it doesn't necessarily make them a good person either . The screenplay also drags due to the fact that there's two subplots of U-96 being damaged and stuck on the Atlantic seabed when one subplot of sinking and then resurrecting the vessel would have sufficedBut the pros far outweigh the cons and I recommend this movie to people who have never seen a foreign language film in their life . It's placing in the IMDb top 250 is well earned . You may be shocked to know that director Wolgang Petersen later went onto to make Hollywood crap like OUTBREAK and A PERFECT STORM
One Of The Greatest Most Bizarre Concerts In History	By the Summer of 1990 the cold war had ended thus saving mankind from the threat of thermo-nuclear conflict , the Berlin wall had been knocked down and the unification of Germany was underway and how did humanity celebrate these Earth shattering historical events ? With a rock concert ! But it wasn't just any rock concert , it was a rock concert performed by Roger Waters and friends of their own interpretation of Water's masterpiece album THE WALL an album I fell deeply in love with a couple of years previously . Strange as it may seem I never thought about attending the concert in the flesh ( great title for a song BTW ) because the thought of travelling halfway across Europe was somewhat daunting and the thought of watching a concept album about alienation and social isolation being performed alongside 300 , 000 would have been too ironic even for me so I decided to watch it on television even though the signs weren't good since Phil Collins and a few other big names invited to attend snubbed the event and Waters replaced them with little known acts namely Sinead O ' Connor , Bryan Adams and The Scorpions The concert was opened by Group Captain Leonard Cheshire VC who spent much of the second world war bombing Nazi Germany back to the stone age and who spent the remainder of his life as a selfless charity worker . No doubt this apt introduction revolves around the idea of reconciliation and a new way forward for Europe . Then the concert proper started which was a strange mix of the good , bad and sublime The Good : A Russian red army band performing a rousing version of Bring The Boys Back Home with the wall in the background illuminated with photographs of war , Waters performing his own penned tracks like Another Brick In The Wall Part Three and as a fascist dictator Waiting For The Worms The Bad : I know it's a live concert performed to a worldwide audience of tens of millions and accidents do happen but many of the early tracks were ruined by technical difficulties . Some of the guests were inappropriate like Thomas Dolby and Cyndi Lauper The Sublime : Albert Finney and Tim curry camping it up during the prosecution sequence . The wall being demolished ion stage as Pink breaks out of his barrier of isolation All in all ( Geddit ? ) one of the most spectacular , memorable and just plain bizarre concerts ever performed
Magical Music . Dire Directing	U2 are my all time favourite band . I absolutely loved the band as a teenager in the early 1980s . I've gone off them slightly as their musical direction changed in the mid 80s and beyond . This is by no means a criticism of their musical progression , they're a band who pride themselves on progression and never get into a musical rut . In the early 80s they were about the only major act who wore their guitar sound on their sleeve . In the 1990s when the musical world was polarised between American grunge and Britpop Bono and the boys were banging on synths . Not quite dance music , not quite guitar rock but something idiosyncratic and unique . But the fact remains in creative terms I rate their early stuff as their best . I bought UNDER A BLOOD RED SKY as soon as it was released on video in Britain in the Summer of 1984 , but never got round to sticking it in the VCR on the day of purchase due to a power cut . Anyway the stuck it in my video the next day and UABRS starts with cut shot of Denver where the concert almost never took place . A massive torrential downpour spoils the occasion , roadies with brushes sweep excess water from the stage and the audience look like they've just been swimming with dolphins " Bob Dylan did it and they called it hard rain and this is what you've got here so you're all part of history " says a man addressing the audience . Seeing as he puts a brave face on a bad climatic situation no doubt he's now working as a spin doctor So Bono and company come on a launch into Surrender . This is what I love about this video today , here we see tracks that don't get played anymore like Seconds , A Day Without Me , I Threw A Brick and 11 O ' Clock Tick Tock . And there's two classic tracks , Sunday Bloody Sunday where Bono rightly proclaims " This song is not a rebel song " and my all time favourite U2 track I Will Follow . This song always used to get played at the under 18 disco when I was a teenager and it was the one song guaranteed to get everyone up on their feet dancing . If you're young and have a pulse this track will make you feel alive . My one criticism of the video is that it's rather poorly directed by Gavin Taylor . The Red Rocks amphitheater has burning torches and everytime the camera cuts after there's been a long shot of the stage there's a very irritating flame after image on the next shot . In fact the cutting between scenes is very very haphazard and we often get a close up of Bono's bottom ! Maybe some people think that's a good reason to buy the video but I don't . Likewise much of the camera work is very shakey , oh and seeing as the concert was filmed during a downpour more often than not the camera lens has raindrops and condensation covering it . But that's not a big enough criticism for not watching UNDER A BLOOD RED SKY . If you're a casual fan of the band you'll love this concert . Hope to see this on DVD soon with the omitted tracks lke Out Of Control and Twilight includedOn a trivia point the track Gloria differs slightly from the version included on the album of UNDER A BLOOD RED SKY . Compare the bit where Bono says " This is Red Rocks . The rocks " and the guitar blast when he says " This is the Edge " to see what I mean
A Victim Of Its Own Success	I watched this soon after it was released on video and was blown away ( Geddit ? ) by it . Unfortunately after seeing it a few more times since then I notice it's become a victim of its own success . By that I mean every single British film released between 1999 and 2002 seemed to be about gangsters in one form or another carrying out a scam against a funky soundtrack in an inferior retread of LSATSB . In fact Guy Ritchie isn't below plagerising himself with SNATCH which was basically the same film stylewise . But this was the original and best of the Brit gangster new wave . Brilliantly written in a sharp bleakly comical style with some mind bending cinematography by Tim Maurice Jones . There is some criticism that the acting is a bit wooden but I guess that's deliberate on the part of Ritchie so that the dialogue comes to the fore . And what great lines the characters have , especially Rory's " Do you understand Nicholas ? Good cos if you don't I'll kill ya " speech . BTW this film cost less than one million pounds to make . Take note Hollywood that you don't have to spend tens of millions of dollars to make a great movie
Nick Broomfield Is The Perfect Antidote To Michael Moore	It wasn't until very recently that I'd heard of Nick Broomfield and realised he made a couple of documentaries in the early 1980s that I still vividly remember namely SOLDIER GIRLS and THE CHICKEN RANCH . Knowing this I then made a point of catching his recent docudrama GHOSTS about the drowning of 23 illegal Chinese immigrants at Morcombe Bay . I was expecting it to be one of those " blame whitey " polemics , but this is not how it turned out at all with the Chinese gang master being one the most despicable and immoral villains I've seen on the screen in a long time . With this I mind I made a point of buying a ticket for Broomfield's next dramatic venture THE BATTLE OF HADITHA which was being shown at the Edinburgh filmhouse with a Q & A session being held after the showing . Despite the filmhouse brochure proclaiming that this was an even handed film with the marine characters exclusively played by former marines , there was a slight doubt at the back of my mind that we'd be watching guardinista / Michael Moore inspired anti military , anti American rubbish where the Americans are goose stepping Nazis while the Iraqis are entirely peace loving pacifists I needn't have worried because Broomfield has made a film that will be remembered as being the moral and artistic yardstick as to how other films dealing with the conflict will be judged . Whatever your opinion of the invasion of Iraq ( I like the vast majority of Brits was against it ) there is no way you can heap criticism on TBOH for being pro or anti propaganda for either side . Sure it's anti war but does point out the dangers and frustration faced by both serving soldiers and innocent civilians in a war zone . If there is any type of villain it's probably Al Qaeda itself . Certainly Broomfield deserves congratulations for making a very subtle point that there's a difference between indigenous secular Sunni insurgents who are fighting for their country and those outsiders who want to turn Iraq in to an Islamic theocracy . This probably works best in the scene where the Iraqi insurgent breaks down in tears saying he wished he'd never planted the bomb that leads to the massacre while the sheik rejoices with barely concealed glee that this is a wonderful propaganda coup for Iraq , the more civilians killed by the occupation forces means more recruits for Al Qaeda If I do have any artistic problems with the mis-en-scene it's that some of the acting is different from what an avid cinema goer is used to . This is in no way a criticism because much of the acting is powerful especially Elliot Ruiz as Cpl Rameirez , even more amazing when you consider there's very few professional actors cast . It's just that when you're very used to life long lighter than life or larger than life performances by ( Insert well regarded big name actor here ) you are slighter aware how different the acting is from what you usually see . Let me repeat though that it's not a real criticism Respect too to Mr Broomfield for giving a very informative Q & A session after the showing where he was once again very even handed . He did talk a lot of sense where he said that in his humble opinion it should be Bush and Blair who should be on trial instead of the marines which led me to start a round of applause and that peace is coming to Iraq down to the fact that foreign Jihidists are murdering many Iraqis just for the sake of it . He did trip himself up later during the session when he claimed that " Britain and America spent several years arming both sides during the Iran - Iraq war " which led to me shouting " RUBBISH " but there were no hard feelings on either side and I genuinely look forward to Nick's next contribution to narrative cinema . Come to think of it if a Brit can make something so even handed why do we have to endure offensive Anglophobic garbage coming out of Hollywood studios like THE PATRIOT and THE DEVIL'S OWN ?
A Great Film That Has Jerry Bruckheimer In The Credits !	I normally hate westerns but I could watch THE CULPEPPER CATTLE COMPANY over and over again . This a bleak nihilistic extremely well written western that's also understated . Don't you get a feeling that Frank Culpepper built his cattle business through illegal activities ? This is never disclosed but the signs are there . Best of all is the characterisation , man there's some really nasty people here , imagine the school bullies from hell riding about on horses and you've got the idea and the cast make the most of their roles , special mention goes to Geoffrey Lewis and Bo Hopkins . The only reason I can think off why IMDB members have given this film a relatively low vote is because they're turned off by the violence and amorality of this film . Well I guess if you were brought up on the all American values of John Wayne's wild west THE CULPEPPER CATTLE COMPANY may very well shock you . Perhaps the most shocking thing is the fact that the associate producer is one Jerry Bruckheimer ! Yes it's that Jerry Bruckheimer the man who produced shallow popcorn blockbusters like BEVERLY HILLS COP , TOP GUN , ARMAGEDDON and PEARL HARBOR and who is probably the most powerful figure in Hollywood today But don't let the name of Bruckheimer put you off this great film , this is every bit as great as THE WILD BUNCH which also featured Bo Hopkins in a similar role
It Left Me In A State Of Shock	If film making is an analogy for food then horror movies are the ready meals you stick into a microwave . This probably explains why horror isn't all that well regarded in the cinematic world because any idiot can make a horror movie , all you have to do is stick someone in a remote location and if it's a dark location all the better , have some creepy sounds in the background that will have both the protagonists and audience gasping " what was that ? " and if that's not enough have some scary music . See any idiot can supposedly make a horror movie so why do most directors and screenwriters in the genre come up with movies that clichéd , stupid and most of all not scary in the slightest ? THE TEN STEPS by writer / director Bredan Muldowney contains every single cliché you have ever seen in every single horror movie . It's set in a remote country house where Katie a young teenager is babysitting on her younger brother Stephen because her parents are networking the father's new boss . There's scenes set in the dark with a mood enhancing soundtrack but within one minute of the running time I'd already jumped out of my skin and as Stephen McKeon's musical score increased the tension I felt my heart beat increase until the shock ending when my jaw hit the floor I can not praise this short film enough . BBC 2 are having a series of short films on The learning Zone slot and this is the best one they've shown . In fact this is almost certainly the most memorable short film I have ever seen in my entire life . It's brilliantly effective and isn't it obscene that absolute garbage like THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT and THE EXORCIST are hyped while no one has ever heard of THE TEN STEPS ? If I have any criticism it's that this is maybe too effective and I will have a problem sleeping , but apart from that I salute you Brendan Muldowney and I hope that your obvious talent leads to the rewards you deserve
Documentary Greatness	On the surface Morgan Matthews documentary hardly breaks new ground on the genre front . A three hour documentary featuring archive news footage combined with talking head interviews centered around the 300 British service personnel killed in the war against terror . Taken at face value it's like asking " Who would want to watch a nine hour documentary featuring the holocaust ? " but that would be insulting SHOAH whilst denying the power of documentary . I can't think of anything I've seen recently that has moved me so much as THE FALLEN . Nor am I ashamed to say that I wept while watching it The format is simple . Interviews with the relatives of personnel killed in Iraq and Afghanistan , photos and footage of much loved siblings fathers and sons , cross cut with the testimony by a journalist or former serving officer or of news footage of roadside bombings and firefights . Everyone's name is listed from first fatality Lance Corporal Darren George to Marines Neil Dunstan and Robert McKibben killed by an IED just before broadcast , The simplicity shouldn't be interpreted as a criticism and brings a very subliminal quality from the start as graves are visited and letters read . Neither should it be forgotten that the immediate " in yer face " moments are any less haunting such as the mother of Christopher Gray as she describes the death of her son as we're shown his finals hours caught on camera . This is what marks THE FALLEN as being true documentary greatness - you just want to wrap your arms around the relatives involved and make the whole world right . There's added bleak poignancy when you realise you can't . These relatives will feel their loss for the rest of their lives . It's something that not only makes you think but makes you feel Fortunately for our generation unlike those of the 1914-18 and 1939-45 generations war is a rare and abstract thing . The unfortunate thing about this is that the average Briton is ignorant about the human cost of war . Worse still those who have lost loved ones will probably be left more isolated from society and forgotten than by other generations . That's the impression I am left with . Humbling to watch , even more humbling to comment on THE FALLEN shows the human cost of war more incisively than anything I've ever seen and that alone marks it out for documentary greatness
Triumph Of The Human Spirit	Without doubt THE KILLING FIELDS is one of the greatest films ever to have come out of Britain . The cinematography is outstanding , watch the numerous scenes where someone runs past the camera and the camera follows them only to have the camera follow someone else when they run past it , or the way the camera spins around when the journalists are captured outside the hospital , but this film is rightly remembered for one man : Haing S Ngor , a Cambodian doctor who had his own horrors to tell after nearly being captured by the Khmer Rouge ( ! ! ! ! POSSIBLE SPOILER ! ! ! ! ! ) the scene near the end where he sees the red cross refugee camp in Thailand is one of the most moving in the history of cinema . I won't bother to list all the great things about the film , but I will reply to some criticisms . First of all the anti American slant . Well I think we can all agree that America's intervention in South East Asia in the 1960s has been the greatest mistake in American history . Their war in Vietnam and the bombing of Cambodia and Laos caused the massive instability that led to the rise of Pol Pot and as THE KILLING FIELDS shows when the Americans fought and lost they abandoned the Cambodian people to their fate . I also agree that the music can be intrusive but has anyone noticed that we get string orchestras for Dith Pran and ordinary Cambodian civilians and mechanical synthesisers for KR killers ? I think there's a reason for this . My only other criticism is that after reading Christopher Hudson's novelization the script makes makes some of the characters vague like Noakes and Rosa for example . But there's not much wrong with THE KILLING FIELDS , a throwback to a time when Brits made films that weren't comedies , though I'll be the first to admit that this film won't be to everyone's taste . And as I write this review many years after it was made THE KILLING FIELDS does have an added poignancy today . Dr Haing S Ngor was brutally murdered by a street gang for no reason at all several years ago . And we see Sydney Schanberg looking across the New York skyline with a very prominent shot of the twin towers of the WT
My All Time Favourite Movie	I first saw APOCALYPSE NOW in 1985 when it was broadcast on British television for the first time . I was shell shocked after seeing this masterpiece and despite some close competition from the likes of FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING this movie still remains my all time favourite nearly 20 years after I first saw it This leads to the problem of how I can even begin to comment on the movie . I could praise the technical aspects especially the sound , editing and cinematography but everyone else seems to have praised ( Rightly too ) these achievements to high heaven while the performances in general and Robert Duvall in particular have also been noted , and everyone else has mentioned the stark imagery of the Dou Long bridge and the montage of the boat traveling upriver after passing through the border How about the script ? Francis Ford Coppola is best known as a director but he's everyway a genius as a screenwriter as he was as a director , I said " was " in the past tense because making this movie seems to have burned out every creative brain cell in his head , but his sacrifice was worth it . In John Milius original solo draft we have a script that's just as insane and disturbing as the one on screen , but Coppola's involvement in the screenplay has injected a narrative that exactly mirrors that of war . Check how the screenplay starts off all jingoistic and macho with a star turn by Bill Kilgore who wouldn't have looked out of place in THE GREEN BERETS but the more the story progresses the more shocking and insane everything becomes , so much so that by the time reaches Kurtz outpost the audience are watching another film in much the same way as the characters have sailed into another dimension . When Coppola states " This movie isn't about Vietnam - It is Vietnam " he's right . What started off as a patriotic war to defeat communist aggression in the mid 1960s had by the film's setting ( The Manson trial suggests it's 1970 ) had changed America's view of both the world and itself and of the world's view of America It's the insane beauty of APOCALYPSE NOW that makes it a masterwork of cinema and says more in its running time about the brutality of conflict and the hypocrisy of politicians ( What did you do in the Vietnam Mr President ? ) than Michael Moore could hope to say in a lifetime . I've not seen the REDUX version but watching the original print I didn't feel there was anything missing from the story which like all truly great films is very basic . In fact the premise can lend itself to many other genres like a western where an army officer has to track down and kill a renegade colonel who's leading an injun war party , or a sci-fi movie where a UN assassin is to eliminate a fellow UN soldier who's leading a resistance movement on Mars , though this is probably down to Joseph Conrad's original source novelMy all time favourite movie and it's very fitting that I chose this movie to be my one thousandth review at the IMDb
An Absolute Classic	Even an old cynical DOCTOR WHO fan like myself can be left breathless by watching an episode of my favourite show . It happened previously during Eccleston's finale and it happened watching this episode . It doesn't happen often though but The Impossible Planet is an example of both the show and of television at its very , very best . This is stunning television The Doctor and his companion land in a mysterious place where they see strange writing on the wall and the audience ( Many of who will be moving behind the sofa ) are instantly transfixed . A door opens and horrible monsters start stalking the time travellers . This might have taken up an entire 25 minute episode in the original show but all this takes place in he pre title sequence . You may miss the longer drawn out format of the original show but at least this new series is tightly plotted and if we're treated to a disappointing story then at least it's usually only for one week There is nothing to disappointment a viewer here . It is DOCTOR WHO at its most traditional best . Writer Matt Jones and director James Strong have gone out of their way to make a story that will be regarded for years to come . They do this by constructing a doom laden narrative . The Doctor and Rose lose the Tardis and they're stuck with the protagonists in the far flung future . It's interesting how many stories never feature this type of plot point where the Doctor and his companions no longer have access to the Tardis which makes for a more intriguing type of story . Without doubt the highlight is the scene where Scooti goes to look for Toby only to find him standing on the surface of the planet where he turns and beckons her outside . Everything from acting , make up and Murray Gold's music makes this a scene that genuinely shocks its audience I can imagine immediately after this episode the BBC switchboards received a tsunami of complaints for distressed parents saying how traumatised their children were . That it took them several hours to get them from behind the family sofa and that they're now refusing to sleep with the lights out . To do this complaining would be to deny the magic of DOCTOR WHO . Yes it can terrify and yes such images will burn themselves in to the mind of a child , something they will never forget even if hey live to be a hundred . But I will bet my life that these same " traumatised " children would have spent the week begging that no matter what they'll be allowed to watch the next episode
Underrated Classic	When Nazi Germany invaded The Soviet Union in 1941 it led to the worst carnage in human history . From June 1941 to the final battle of Berlin in April 1945 the conflict between the Nazis and red army cost the lives of 35 million people . IF you look upon the war between Hitler and Stalin as being separate from all the other campaigns of conflict in the second world war then the campaign in Eastern Europe is the bloodiest conflict in the history of mankind . Something that seems very unlikely to be exceeded . Alas however western film makers seem reluctant to acknowledge this . Off the top of my head I can think of only 3 American / European movies to be set on the Eastern front : ENEMY AT THE GATES , STALINGRAD and CROSS OF IRON . I first saw CROSS OF IRON in 1983 and have seen it umpteen times since then . This is an intelligent anti war classic and I never get bored with it . James Coburn , star of many a forgettable lightweight caper movie is perfect as the cynical Sgt Steiner . For the first time in his career he shows he has presence and probably gives his best performance in any film . James Mason is also good , though you have admit has Mason ever been bad ? but the best performance award goes to Maximillian Schell as the villain of the piece . It'd be all too easy to have Schell as a goosestepping Nazi , but Schell's character is a Prussian aristocrat opposed to fascist egalitarianism . He dislikes the Nazis almost as much as Steiner does . That's one of many good aspects of the script , it's so thoughtful and with one exception it doesn't show any of the Germans as out and out idealogue fascists . But notice the couple of ironic touches in the film where people say the excuse of " I obey orders . It was none of my doing . I was not responsible " Something that has been said a lot of times during the last century , and the century before that , and the one before that . Guess if you travelled a thousand years ' in the future we'd still be hearing that . I also find the script perfectly paced , CROSS OF IRON lasts nearly two and a half hours but no matter how many times I watch it I never find it dragging in any way . I sometimes watch SAVING PRIVATE RYAN but I only watch the first half hour and last half hour ' cos the middle of SPR is totally tedious . CROSS OF IRON has a much better script . Maybe the battle scenes of SPR are slightly more gory but at best they're only as good as the ones in this film . I'd say this is Peckinpah's best film . The editing during the battle scenes are absolutely superb as we see Soviet soldiers in slo mo , Germans in real time , cutting back to Soviets in real time then Germans in slo mo . Then seeing a cross cut with a Soviet and German dying at the same time . A classic and unforgivably forgotten film set during the worst conflict in history . In my opinion the greatest WW2 film ever surpassing even DAS BOOT
The Greatest Computer Game Ever	CALL TO POWER is turn based computer game but be warned - It's totally addictive . You can choose many nations and many terrains . You start off with a couple of settlers ( That's if you decide on an easy level . For the harder levels you only get one settler ) and build a city then the more you progress your cities the more resources you can get and you have more choices as to what sort of government you can place your civilization under . You can also decide how you want to win the game via defeating your enemies in conflict or getting hold of some alien DNA , but defeating your enemies is much simpler and much more fun . Everything about the game is a joy , the contrast in terrains is good , the colours are good , there's some excellent atmospheric ethnic background music and unlike some other turn based games that I won't mention the game play is relatively fast . The only downside I can think of is that CTP is pretty difficult , it took me months playing it non stop to finally win a game . Oh and it's so involving you might be in danger of losing touch with reality
Oh Good , There's Lesbian Sex In This	ROSEBUD features no dialogue and no real plot . The story consists of a young woman ( Played by the very attractive Julie Graham ) who accidentally comes across her two lesbian neighbours making love on a roof top and the young woman ( Played by the very attractive Julie Graham . Good casting by the way ) fantasizing about gay love and then finding and accepting herself as a lesbian . This is a truly great masterwork of cinema featuring several scenes of naked pretty young women making love . If like me - and just about every red blooded man on the planet - you believe there's nothing wrong with same sex relationships as long as it features pretty young women putting on a public show then you will not only want to see this film but want to buy it on video and watch it again and again and again . If you're a gay man you'll think this is the worst film ever made And perhaps one day we'll see a big budget Hollywood remake starring Penelope Cruz and Kate Beckinsale . Oh yes please
