I Feared Not	" A medical school student is pledging a fraternity but he harbors a dark secret from his past . A traumatic experience from his childhood comes back to haunt him , when his fraternity hazing brings back his memories . The simple fraternity prank ends up going horribly wrong for our pledge and his would-be fraternity brothers , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Medical school student George Mather ( as Lewis B . Moffitt ) ' s mission is to retrieve a gold ring from the finger of corpse " John Doe " , who resides at a local mausoleum . You've got to wonder how " Mr . Doe " managed to keep his gold ring through an autopsy and burial . Probably , it wasn't real gold . Anyway , the film's flashback / framing indicates this all happened in 1955 . Probably , " Ring of Terror " rested on the shelf for seven years ; and was brought out of cold storage to frighten unsuspecting 1962 viewers . Don't you be fooled .
A Black Eye for Apache Rose	Roy Rogers is an oil prospector who wants to get rights to drill for oil on a promising piece of land . Dale Evans ( as Billie ) sails a local tugboat named " Apache Rose " and Olin Howlin is Mr . Rogers ' lovable old codger friend " Alkali " . Bob Nolan and the " Sons of the Pioneers " are around when necessary . Gamblers aboard the boat " Casino Del Mar " aka " S . S . Casino " are the main adversaries , led by nasty George Meeker ( as Reed Calhoun ) . This film is very poorly performed and presented by Rogers and company . Ms . Evans is absurd as a disguised Senorita , and her song " There's Nothing ' Like Coffee in the Morning " looks like a breakfast commercial try-out . Mr . Howlin's quickly disappearing " black eye " might have been better placed on the entire disjointed production . Apache Rose ( 1947 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Dale Evans , Olin Howland
Galactic Hero Sandwich	" A race of aliens is en route to Earth with the intent of enslaving the human race . The world turns to a top scientist in the hopes that he , and the team he pits together , can come up with a plan to drive off the extraterrestrial invaders . Is there enough time for our hero and his companions to prepare for a fight the will decide the fate of the entire planet ? " asks the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Man's first contact with an alien race turns sour when they want to take over the planet , and make us futuristic Earthling slaves . " Star Odyssey " ( in English ) is a another cheap attempt to cash-in on the " Star Wars " success ; although it doesn't really steal much story , and attempts some of its own cheesy style . The title and advertising graphics must have lured fewer victims this time around , as there was no follow-up . Gianni Garko ( as Dirk ) and Yanti Somer ( as Irene ) manage to keep straight hero and heroine faces . This had to be difficult with lovesick robots " Tilt " and " Tilly " wandering around . The promise to alter their parts , so the mechanical couple would be able to consummate their relationship , is never shown on screen . Alas , it might have made the movie more than a complete waste of resources .
Elvis of Arabia	Elvis Presley plays a singer who makes bad movies - an inspired casting decision ! He is kidnapped , and appears in an Arabian setting , where he finds romantic Mary Ann Mobley . There are a number of women running about in harem outfits - so , you get the cleavage promised by the setting and situation ? but , little else . The most embarrassing musical number is Elvis singing " Hey , Little Girl " to a pre-teen slave girl . There really aren't any great songs in " Harum Scarum " ; which is quite a disappointment , because some of the bad Elvis movies have , at least , a few terrific songs . I did not hear the song " Animal Instinct " in the movie ; as I recall , that was a decent song . If they had to cut the " Animal Instinct " scene , they should have used the song over the credits ; on the " Harum Scarum " title song , Elvis sounds hoarse . A complete waste of Elvis . Harum Scarum ( 1965 ) Gene Nelson - Elvis Presley , Mary Ann Mobley , Michael Ansara
No Laughing Matter	" An American gangster agrees to transport a group of Caribbean Island exiles and their national treasury to safe haven , with the intent of eliminating the exiles and keeping the money . Hoping to use the local legend of a sea monster as a cover for killing off the soldiers , the gangster and his crew discover that the legend is true , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Roger Corman's " Creature from the Haunted Sea " looks its best in the animated opening ; from there , it's all downstream . There is on-screen evidence that the people involved in this production were attempting some sort of satirical humor . Anthony Carbone ( as Renzo Capetto ) seems to be in charge ; he acts like Humphrey Bogart . Robert Towne ( as XK150 ) provides silly narration . For Pete's sake , a subplot has one of the crew finding love with a Cuban woman who can make animal noises with him . If this movie were being screened for Abraham Lincoln , he would call for John Wilkes Booth . Remarkably wretched . Creature from the Haunted Sea ( 1961 ) Roger Corman - Anthony Carbone , Betsy Jones-Moreland , Robert Towne
Accentuates Wretched	The Beast of Yucca Flats ( 1961 ) Coleman Francis - Tor Johnson , Bing Stafford , Larry Aten " Russian scientist Joseph Javorsky is looking to defect to the West and has made it to Nevada in hopes of meeting up with American representatives . Pursued by Soviet agents hoping to prevent his defection , Javorsky is forced to enter into a restricted atomic bomb test range in hopes of shaking off the agents , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Rotund actor Tor Johnson lumbers through this travesty , as " noted scientist Joseph Javorsky " ( accent on " noted scientist " ) . Director Coleman Francis also narrates ; his " The Beast of Yucca Flats " is a strong contender for worst film honors . There is no " camp " value . This film is sucks every ounce of enjoyment out of movie watching ; therefore , it should only be seen academically - - for example , if you are studying bad movies , it could win you a " my movie pick is worse than your movie pick " honors . If you decide to view " The Beast of Yucca Flats " , be sure you have alternate activities , or a friend , nearby .
Take a Powder	Director Abel Ferrara's " movie-movie " has director Harvey Keitel ( as Eddie Israel ) filming " Mother of Mirrors " starring Madonna ( as Sarah Jennings ) and James Russo ( as Francis Burns ) as a " real life " married couple . Madonna wants to be a real actress , and is finding her religion . Mr . Russo wants to continue a sex ' n ' drugs lifestyle . This is an attempt to make a shocking , cutting edge movie with a lot of adult language sprinkled with some violent simulated sex . Madonna looks hot in scenes with a sheer shirt and ( later ) nada . The characters are neither good nor bad enough to make you care about them in either way , although they TRY . Dangerous Game ( 1993 ) Abel Ferrara - Harvey Keitel , Madonna , James Russo
Bela Lugosi Goes Ape	" Dr . Brewster ( Bela Lugosi ) is working on a serum derived from gorilla spinal fluid and tests his experimental formula upon himself . Unfortunately , the serum transforms Dr . Brewster into a simian-like creature and he desperately attempts to find a cure . Only human spinal fluid will return him to normal but , Dr . Brewster uses some nefarious methods to extract his needed supply , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . The author of the story supposedly makes an appearance at its closing - it's a good thing he rolls up the car window , to miss whatever you feel like throwing up at the screen . William Beaudine's " The Ape Man " is an embarrassment , even for a low-budget programmer . If the movie were a little better , you might be able to take some delight in Minerva Urecal's stone-faced sister , " Agatha Brewster " . But , the best actor has to be Emil Van Horn as " The Ape " , since he gets to save face . The Ape Man ( 1943 ) William Beaudine - Bela Lugosi , Louise Currie , Wallace Ford
Lost in the Translation	" While traveling in the mountains , a man is attached by a mysterious creature that promptly departs , leaving no trace of its presence . Unbeknownst to the man , he has been attacked by a werewolf and now he's inherited the curse associated with such creatures . Now our hero must race against time to rid himself of this dreadful affliction before the next full moon , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Horrifically re-produced from the original Spanish , " The Fury of the Wolf Man " loses whatever charms it may have possessed in its original form . Lycanthropic Paul Naschy's werewolf characterization is uneven and ineffectual . Dominatrix scientist Perla Cristal and sexy assistant Verónica Luján never get close enough to truly titillate . The often incoherent storyline isn't even ghoulishly amusing .
There's a Starman Weighting in the Sky	" The Earth is threatened by the forces of the evil Spherions ( sic ) , an alien race out to conquer the universe . The Spherions ( wouldn't they be Sapphirans ? ) are aided in their attempt to take over the Earth by some of the world's top scientists . Standing in the way of the alien invaders and their treacherous allies is Starman , mighty interplanetary champion sent to Earth to defend the planet against galactic menaces , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Ken Utsui ( as Sûpâ Jaiantsu , or Super Giant ) must save Earth and the galaxy from Nazi-saluting aliens from " The Sapphire Galaxy " . This compliments the films gemstone theme , as Mr . Utsui is from " The Emerald Planet " ; and , the comic book characters slightly resemble DC Comics ' " Green Lantern " . This is the American ( English edited and dubbed ) version of the Japanese super-hero's fifth and sixth movies , Jinkô eisei to jinrui no hametsu ( 1957 ) and Uchûtei to jinkô eisei gekitotsu ( 1958 ) . Herein , the series substitutes additional fighting , explosions , stock footage , and other paunchiness , for lost charm and direction . Attack from Space ( 1964 ) Teruo Ishii - Ken Utsui , Utako Mitsuya , Junko Ikeuchi
Floating Dead Wood	Clancy Malone ( as Don Gregor ) is an " over 21 " juvenile delinquent ; he carries an illegal gun , gets arrested , is bailed out , and helps pal Timothy Farrell ( as Vic Brady ) commit burglaries . Mr . Malone's father Herbert Rawlinson ( as Boris Gregor ) is a very successful plastic surgeon ; later , his skill comes in handy . Blonde Dolores Fuller ( as Marilyn Gregor ) is a concerned sister . Lawmen Lyle Talbot ( as Inspector Johns ) and Steve Reeves ( as Bob Lawrence ) investigate the unfortunate circumstances surrounding Malone's criminal escapades . Strong competition for worst performance honors . The Spanish guitar is annoying . " Cotton Watts and Chick " perform the " blackface " act . First feature film for Herculean Reeves , who gets to appear shirtless in a scene . Last feature film for Mr . Rawlinson . Not even good Wood . Jail Bait ( 1954 ) Edward D . Wood Jr . - Lyle Talbot , Dolores Fuller , Herbert Rawlinson
Get Off with George Putnam	This vile pile of 1960s pollution was put out by a group calling themselves the " Citizens for Decent Literature Inc . " Like other films of its type , " Perversion for Profit " sought to both frighten and titillate its audiences ; today , it's either offensive or funny ( depending on your mood ) . The film provides a generous parade of pornographic images . Narrator George Putnam ( subtitled " outstanding news reporter " ) promises the photographs displayed will cover up offensive body parts , " for the sake of decency " - but , don't worry , he mostly means the little dark slits covering some of the models ' eyes . Mr . Putnam's approach is much like that employed , presently , by " folks " like Bill O'Reilly ; express shock while providing your audience with perversion , for profit . Perversion for Profit ( 1965 ) Charles Keating - George Putnam
Blondes Have More Fun when Held Hostage	On his way to El Paso , Reese ( Neville Brand ) stops by a bar " in the middle of nowhere " , and is taken hostage . He is held at gunpoint ( and later tied up ) by three outlaws : gang leader Warren Kemmerling ( as Jack Hanks ) , Mexican right hand man Fernando Lamas ( as Paco Romero ) , and slightly psycho Jack Weston ( as John Holden ) . The bar's proprietor is saucy Jeanette Nolan ( as Martha Tuforth ) . She and young blonde " niece " Sheilah Wells ( as Maryanne ) are also hostages . Later , city councilman Tol Avery ( as Millburn Willburn ) and his older blonde wife Marian Moses ( as Letty ) become additional hostages . The episode's bizarre storyline involves outlaw Lamas romancing the experienced " old blonde " ( Ms . Moses ) and the pliable " young blonde " ( Ms . Wells ) . The hostage victims are so taken by their abductor's charms , they begin to fight over him - desiring to continue serving him as hostage , in Mexico . Halfway into the story , Joe ( William Smith ) arrives , posing as a traveling salesman ( the " Stanley " character referred to in the episode title ) . Perhaps wisely , Peter Brown and Philip Carey do not appear during the hour . It ends strangely . Moses later appeared on " Falcon Crest " ; both she and Lamas had sons ( Lorenzo and William ) who were regulars on the show . Laredo - It's the End of the Road , Stanley ( / 66 ) Leon Benson - Fernando Lamas , Neville Brand , William Smith
Something Is Rotten in Laredo	Lovable , naive tough guy George Kennedy ( as Jess Moran ) steps in to replace lovable , naive tough guy Reese , who is on assignment in Houston . Mr . Kennedy is a fine performer ; but , his skills are not apparent in this episode . Chad ( Peter Brown ) , Joe ( William Smith ) , and Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) assume their regular roles ; star Neville Brand does not appear at all . The fact that Kennedy is ( perhaps with short notice ) acting essentially like the " Reese " character , in an inferior episode , is a sure sign something is wrong with the " Laredo " series . Moreover , it looks as if producers were trying out a slightly different situation , most notable in the addition of purely comic " weak " Ranger Henry Gibson ( as Freddy Gruber ) . Michael Shaughnessy ( as Monahan ) is the special guest star . Ironically , later on , William Smith revealed he broke Mike Mazurki's nose during their boxing match ; the injury is not apparent , on screen . Laredo - Pride of the Rangers ( / 65 ) Tony Leader - George Kennedy , Peter Brown , William Smith
No Song , No Licorice	While Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) play checkers , Reese ( Neville Brand ) reveals his has a plan to capture Native American Indian " Linda Littletrees " ( Shelley Morrison ) . Reese suggests using Joe as " bait " , recalling that when she last appeared , the Indian woman fell in love with Joe . Captain Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) has other plans ; and , he sends Reese to San Antoine for the rest of the episode . Meanwhile , undercover replacement Ranger Michael Conrad ( as Willie G . Tinney ) works to infiltrate Littletrees ' gang . Later , Mr . Conrad must free the kidnapped Joe . Conrad works well with the regular Rangers ; but , it's a wasted effort . The series scores good continuity points for licorice loving Linda Littletrees ' third appearance ; it is noted as her third appearance , her love for Joe is continued , and his knowledge of Comanche lore is a character trait . This is the least appealing , to date , of the already limitedly appealing " Linda Littletrees " episodes . Morrison gets to sing a " Comanche love song , " repeatedly , " outside the tee pee . . . " Laredo - No Bugles , One Drum ( / 66 ) Earl Bellamy - William Smith , Michael Conrad , Shelley Morrison
Debbie Does Manos	" In this macabre tale of a trip gone horribly wrong , an innocent family becomes lost and find themselves at a remote farmhouse . The only apparent resident of the property is a strangely deformed man named Torgo , who insists he is watching the place for ' The Master ' . What our travelers don't know is ' The Master ' and his demon-worshiping wives have awakened from their slumber to prey upon them for their sacrifices , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Although John Reynolds ( as Torgo ) manages an interesting characterization , it isn't enough to lift this film from rock bottom , unfortunately . Manos : The Hands of Fate ( 1966 ) Harold P . Warren - John Reynolds , Diane Mahree , Tom Neyman
10 , 000 Yawns Under the Sea	" The U . S . Government sends a scientist to investigate some mysterious deaths along a stretch of beach on the Pacific Coast . What brings the scientist to the investigation is the radiation burns found on the victims . Arriving at the scene of the deaths , the scientist visits the nearby Pacific College of Oceanography where he meets Professor King and his daughter Lois . While falling for the professor's daughter , our scientist begins to suspect that Professor King's secret research is somehow connected to the radiation and the deaths , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . There may be some effect of radiation on marine life , but this film presents the possibility in the dullest , most illogical way possible . The monster looks very silly . Possibly the most interesting character is inquisitive Vivi Janiss ( as Ethel ) , secretary to Professor King . And , more evidence that everyone in show business is related can be found in Helen Stanton ( as Wanda ) being the real life mother of " Doctor Drew " aka Drew Pinsky . Kent Taylor , who lent his first name to Siegel and Shuster's " Superman " has nothing to do with Mary Tyler Moore's " Tex Baxter " , however . Small world . The Phantom from 10 , 000 Leagues ( 1955 ) Dan Milner - Kent Taylor , Cathy Downs , Michael Whalen
The Armpit of Films	A singularly awful movie . Very few films have the awful power of " Façade " . There is evidence some form of satire was attempted . It's a botched job . Eric Roberts ( as businessman Colin Wentworth ) meanders through the proceedings in a hopefully inebriated state . The obligatory " hot chick " moment is over quickly , blessedly ; if you're watching for that reason . The soundtrack rips off " Strangers in the Night " ( doesn't anyone own the copyright on that song ? ) . Quite possibly , this is the worst film ever made with Eric Roberts . One would certainly have to hope so , anyway . The credits end with a 1997 production date , so this may have been unreleased for a number of years . Really , they needn't have bothered . Facade ( 1997 ) Carl Colpaert - Eric Roberts , Camilla Overbye Roos , Angus Macfadyen
Reckless Driving 101	Leaving the beach behind , drag racing Frankie Avalon ( as Dave Owens ) and statuesque Annette Funicello ( as Jane Harris ) get involved with bootlegging racer Fabian ( as Sonny Leander Fox ) . Pretty Julie Parrish ( as Martha Brian ) is Mr . Avalon's main squeeze this time around ; in one of the film's few memorably bad scenes , she gets a firm grip on shirtless Avalon's buttocks . In a related move , Fabian's fan club , the " Eager Beavers " express devotion on their derrières . Chill Wills is ( as Big Jaw ) and Harvey Lembeck ( as Charlie Bigg ) are among the unfortunate supporting cast . Director William Asher's American International team absolutely needed a change of pace , but " Fireball 500 " was about as unnecessary a postscript as could be produced .
Wouldn't Scare the Family Cat	" A Texas community is beset with a rash of mysterious killings involving some of the students from the local college . The sheriff investigating the death discovers the startling identity of the killer responsible for the murders . A NASA experiment involving cosmic rays has mutated an ape and turned it into an unstoppable killing machine with a thirst for blood , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Or , could the creature really be a mutated alligator returning from a space-bound " Noah's Ark " ? A long opening , with laughably straight 1960s couple Ralph Baker Jr . ( as Chris ) and Dorothy Davis ( as Judy ) , suggests " Night Fright " might be a joyously bad movie ; but , don't get your hopes up . After some innocent cavorting , the attractive collegiates discover another couple has encountered a monster ; naturally , the creature is hell-bent on terrorizing young romantics . Sheriff John Agar ( as Clint Crawford ) isn't trusted by the younger set ; but , he really wants to help . Mr . Agar was a friend of my aunt ; he spoke about very few movies , and this wasn't one of them .
Snow Job	" A group of campers in the Canadian wilderness begins ( sic ) to hear strange reports over their radio . Tales of a plague spreading across the Earth , sightings of bizarre beings as well as planes and cars malfunctioning fills the airwaves . Terrified by what they've been listening to , the campers decide to barricade themselves at their cabin in order to face the danger , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Aka " They " , this is a very difficult movie to sit through . Hardly anything ever happens to the five main characters . They seem to be isolated in snowy Wisconsin , for reasons severely lacking in clarity , as the Earth is invaded from within . The " leader " finally emerges as " Stan " ( Paul Bentzen ) ; he is the blonde guy with the beard . " Sarah " ( Debbi Pick ) and " Jake " ( Nick Holt ) are brother and sister . " Eric " ( Karl Wallace ) seems to be the early " leader " ; and , " Andy " ( Robert Arkens ) quintuples the group . The startling ending ( a pair of loin-clothed young children are tastefully shown ) would have worked ; however , the preceding 90 minutes don't lead you there . The very derivative soundtrack jumps the shark when " Jake " goes for help in his snowmobile , to the tune of " The Good , the Bad , and the Ugly " !
Scavenging Old Film	" A rare white gorilla is shunned by the rest of the gorillas due to its unique nature and is forced to live a life of solitude . The time alone makes the gorilla hate all other primates and turns it into a murderous monster . A final confrontation between the white gorilla and his former tribe's leader will decide the fate of all of Africa , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Ray " Crash " Corrigan ( as Steve Collins ) extensively recalls seeing the 1927 serial " Perils of the Jungle " , which had noting to do with " The White Gorilla " in his present form ( as Ray Corrigan ) . To wit , Mr . Corrigan witnesses his " friend " Frank Merrill ( as Ed Bradford ) in the old silent serial . Mr . Merrill , who also played " Tarzan " , must have got a kick out of seeing himself co-starring in a new movie , after almost 20 years of retirement from film . The opening credits promise an " All-Star Cast " , but neither Bing Crosby nor Greer Garson appear in this movie . The 1927 footage is better than the newer parts . The White Gorilla ( 1945 ) Harry L . Fraser - Ray Corrigan , Lorraine Miller , Frank Merrill
Pass the Ammunition and Praise the Lord	In Chicago ( Canada ) , it's hard times for goateed ex-superman Dean Cain ( as Lt . Cornelius Morgan ) ; he is suspended from the police force for being too generous with his bullets . Mr . Cain and Baywatch blonde Erika Eleniak ( as Catherine " Cat " Morgan ) might have to send their children to public school . ( Gasp ! ) Worse off is ex-gangster Eric Roberts ( as Jimmy Scalzetti ) , who must return to his more successful life of crime . Mr . Roberts ' son has leukemia , and desperately needs an expensive bone marrow transplant . ( Choke ) So , Cain and Roberts have a " Die Hard " shoot-out in the mall , where Ms . Eleniak becomes a lipstick and blood hostage . Written and directed for Christians , by Charles Robert Carner . Re-titled " Breakaway " to lure in unsuspecting non-believers . This is an unforgivable waste of resources . There is no laugh track . Those involved surely found a chunk of coal in their stockings . Christmas Rush ( 2002 ) Charles Robert Carner - Dean Cain , Eric Roberts , Erika Eleniak
Dub and Dubber	" A British research scientist is working with various forms of bacteria when he is accidentally exposed to a deadly variety due to a lab accident . The exposure transforms the scientist into a hideous , flesh-eating monster and he begins a rampage in the local community that has the government considering whether or not to destroy the entire town to contain the problem , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . David Warbeck ( as Captain Kirk ) and Janet Agren ( as Jane Blake ) are dumbed and dubbed as they try to stop a bacteria ( or virus ) from taking a bite out of everyone in the city . The monster , " Professor Adams " , worked with Ms . Agren ; so , beauty has some intuition regarding the beast . At first , people think " Professor Adams " has gone fishing ; and , in a sense , he has . Some of the sewer shots , later in the film , look okay - - but , it's not enough of a redeeming quality . " Bakterion " ( or " Panic " ) is simply not a competent film
Houston , We Have a Problem	According to the DVD sleeve's synopsis , " An investigative reporter uncovers a plot against the District Attorney . The D . A . is about to present a case of white-collar crime against some well-respected Wall Street investors who wish to eliminate the D . A . before it can happen . The reporter races to prevent the murder before it can occur , and also help the D . A . in bringing those responsible to justice . " But , nothing about this inappropriately titled film " races " . The story proceeds in the dullest possible manner . Mediocrity runs a frightening level ( and , this is crime drama , not a horror film ) . A couple of the kissing scenes are funny . Pat O'Brien ( as Andy ) sings a little . Please set your " so bad it's good " expectations on very low . The World Gone Mad ( 1933 ) Christy Cabanne - Pat O'Brien , Neil Hamilton , Evelyn Brent
Go Jump in a Lake	" Under the depths of a lake located near a small town , lies a strange alien spacecraft that is unknown to the town's residents . An electronics expert picks up signals emitted by the spacecraft and begins to investigate the source of these mysterious transmissions . The electronics expert hopes to recruit a group of scientists to aid him in investigating the signals , hoping to discover the secrets contained within the alien ship , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Young teaching fellow Nick Plakias ( as Alan Grimes ) has a startling change-of-life UFO experience . Extra sensory perceptive Cynthia Cline ( as Vivian ) unfortunately gets swept up in his investigation . " UFO Target Earth " plays like a stretched-out " Outer Limits " episode , with one-tenth of the old show's budget . But , in this case , there IS something wrong with your television set . Brooks Clift ( as General Gallagher ) appears in a brief , uninteresting role ; he was Montgomery Clift's brother . UFO Target Earth ( 1974 ) Michael A . de Gaetano - Nick Plakias , Cynthia Cline , Brooks Clift
Ciao , Boris Karloff	" An undercover government agent arrives on an Italian island in order to investigate a drug-smuggling ring . The agent quickly establishes some contacts on the island and appears to be well along in the case when a complication arrives . His wife and daughter visit him , thus destroying his cover , and the head of the ring , a kind older man with a dark secret , kidnaps his daughter , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " The Island Monster " has a drug-smuggling Boris Karloff ( as Don Gaetano ) and his gang kidnapping the daughter of leading man Renato Vicario ( as Mario Andreani ) . Franca Marzi ( as Gloria D'Auro ) provides ample feminine distraction , which Mr . Vicario has promised his wife he'll avoid , romantically . The film's horrendously dubbed-in-English version is , at least , outstanding in that respect . Il mostro dell'isola ( 1954 ) Roberto Bianchi Montero - Renato Vicario , Franca Marzi , Boris Karloff
Alias Smith and Jones	Falsely accused , skirt-chasing chums John Wayne ( as John Scott ) and Eddy Chandler ( as Kansas Charlie ) change identities to become " Alias Smith and Jones " . Mr . Wayne becomes " John Jones " . Mr . Chandler's is supposed to be " Rev . Smith " , but Wayne calls him " Dr . Smith " . At no time are either of them as entertaining as Roger Davis , Pete Duel , Jonathan Harris , or Ben Murphy ; although , Wayne can be considered infinitely more successful than any of them , career wise . Pretty blonde Mary Kornman ( as Anne ) , grown-up from her days in " Our Gang " , is a lovely interest for Wayne . She and Chandler have a couple of cute scenes with Wayne . If you're not a fan of low budget John Wayne films of the 1930s , this movie won't make you one .
All Dressed Up with Nowhere to Go	Very difficult to follow film . Teenagers Bobby Vernon and Gloria Swanson are most recognizable . Ms . Swanson drives fast . After Mr . Vernon helps her with car trouble , Swanson almost hits him . In the most notable part , Swanson gets the idea to dress up as a man , while examining men's clothing from a suitcase . She goes to a party in " drag " and takes off with Vernon for a nut sundae ; instead , they seem to do shots . Vernon does not recognize Swanson is his female friend . Next , the pair go to meet Vernon's girlfriend near a fountain ; but , Swanson in drag lures her away . . . More stuff happens . Everyone seems to be having fun ; I'm not sure viewers will feel included . The Danger Girl ( 1916 ) Clarence G . Badger - Bobby Vernon , Gloria Swanson , Helen Bray
Bye , Bye American Pie	Tenacious young Tad Hilgenbrink ( as Matt Stifler , brother of Steve ) is sent to " Band Camp " for monkeying around with his school's instruments . There , he plans to take moving pictures of women undressing . Go figure . Anyway , he falls for adorable Arielle Kebbel ( as Elyse ) , which helps him make a " mature " decision about his stiffing collection . Erstwhile Eugene Levy ( as Mr . Levenstein ) is around , to help weakly provide " Pie " continuity . Not even half-baked shenanigans , for this fourth serving of the " American Pie " film franchise . Ms . Kebbel and the " playmates " are very sexy . Mr . Hilgenbrink makes a noteworthy first impression , in the starring role ; but , this material is just mind-bogglingly weak . Whatever . Beats unemployment . American Pie presents Band Camp ( 2005 ) Steve Rash - Tad Hilgenbrink , Arielle Kebbel , Eugene Levy
Calling Dr . Bombay ? Emergency , Come Right Away !	" A man in town for a convention gets lost while trying to return to his hotel room , after seeing a woman , and ends up being taken in by a mortician to wait out a storm . To pass the time , the mortician shows the man four recently deceased people and begins to tell him how each person ended up as an occupant of one of his coffins , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . John Ericson ( as Talmudge ) is the man who finds refuge with mortician Ivor Francis , during the rainstorm . Mr . Francis ' four stories aren't as enthralling as his characterization is appealing . Bernard Fox ( as McDowal ) is featured in the , passable , third story . Mr . Fox was , perhaps , most memorable the delightful witch doctor first called upon by " Samantha Stevens " on " Bewitched " ; but , even " Dr . Bombay " can't save this plodding film . Charles Aidman ( as Toliver ) banters well with Fox . " Alien Zone " was appropriately re-titled " House of the Dead " . Steve March , vocalizing the theme song " The Sound of Goodbye " , sounds a little like his famous father .
Stuffing the Turkey	Annette Funicello is always tempting and / or is a temptation when left alone , so sailor Frankie Avalon goes to Witchdoctor Buster Keaton and sends an enchanted Pelican to watch over her . That doesn't stop Dwayne Hickman as " Ricky " . Mickey Rooney as " Peachey Keane " arrives on the beach to search for " The Girl Next Door " , and he finds an eager ally in Harvey Lembeck's " Eric Von Zipper " , naturally . Is there such a thing as a " Cheap Beach Party " movie ? This one could not wait for Ms . Funicello to either get in shape or have the baby . Mr . Avalon is hardly present at all ; strangely enough , he is missed . The film is unimaginative in recycling ideas both good and bad . Astute observers will know the " twitch " in the ending cameo isn't even done correctly . On the plus side , Mr . Keaton has more to do this time around , and it's good to see he and Mr . Rooney in a film . The song material sounds better at the end , and the opening credits are the highlight . Still , the " Beach Party " film series looks more tired with every entry ? How to Stuff a Wild Bikini ( 1965 ) William Asher - Annette Funicello , Dwayne Hickman , Mickey Rooney
Night of the Living Dud	" After World War I , an expedition representing the Allied countries is sent to Cambodia to stop the efforts of Count Mazovia in creating a zombie like army of soldiers and laborers . Hoping to prevent a possible outbreak of war due to Mazovia's actions , the group presses through the jungle to Angkor Wat in spite of the perils . The group includes Armand who has his own agenda contrary to the group's wishes , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Heads up ! the zombie make-up department revolted before the cameras started to roll . Also , this " Revolt of the Zombies " has little to do with its supposed predecessor " White Zombie " ( 1932 ) , which starred Bela Lugosi . If that film's zombies didn't thrill you , this one's certainly won't . A younger-than-usual Dean Jagger ( as Armand Louque ) stars as a man obsessive with blonde Dorothy Stone ( as Claire Duval ) . A couple supporting performances are good : devilish Roy D'Arcy ( as Mazovia ) and subservient Teru Shimada ( as Buna ) ; however , neither are given enough material to really pull this one out of the dumps . Revolt of the Zombies ( 1936 ) Victor Halperin - Dean Jagger , Dorothy Stone , Roy D'Arcy
Woof ! And " Yodel-Lay-He-Who " Watches	Unpleasant final teaming of Gene Wilder and Richard Pryor . Mr . Wilder ( as George ) and Mr . Pryor ( as Eddie ) had to have already been contracted and paid for this film to see completion . Otherwise , there are no credible responses to the remarks , " You guys are awful ! " and " This is NOT working ! " The most jaw-dropping unfunny moments involve yodeling . Mercedes Ruehl ( as Elaine aka Mimi ) has an sexy and effective black underwear scene . Pryor has a good sequence , upon arriving at the Fielding mansion . Wilder impersonates Cary Grant and Desi Arnaz . If you don't count Lucy , Ethel , and Elvia Allman working in the candy factory ( on the Fielding's TV ) , the early 1990s Hollywood location footage is the film's only real strength . Another You ( 1991 ) Maurine Phillips - Gene Wilder , Richard Pryor , Mercedes Ruehl
Here Comes the Son Again	Portending a bad Omen , the film's promotional dialogue barks , " The prophecy is clear , the signs are unmistakable , Armageddon is upon us - and our darkest fears are revealed ? as an unspeakable horror is unleashed on the world ! U . S . diplomat Robert Thorn ( Liev Schreiber ) substitutes an orphan for his own stillborn baby in order to spare his unknowing wife ( Julia Stiles ) . But after a series of grotesque murders and dire warnings , the Thorns come to the chilling realization that their child is the son of Satan ! " This is a well-produced , but uninspired re-make of the 1976 box-office revelation . After about thirty minutes , it's difficult to suppress the laughter ( the scene with the Thorn family in a car , on their way to a church ) . Unfortunately , there aren't enough funny scenes to recommend the second coming of " The Omen " as a comedy . Casting Mia Farrow ( as Mrs . Baylock ) was interesting , since she so memorably provided a womb for Satan's son in the granddaddy of these films , " Rosemary's Baby " . All in all , you're infinitely better off with originals , like " Rosemary's Baby " ( 1968 ) and " The Omen " ( 1976 ) . The Omen ( 2006 ) John Moore - Liev Schreiber , Julia Stiles , Mia Farrow
Blood and Guts	Indigestive red-head Raimund Harmstorf ( as Heinz ) persuades blue-eyed hunk Amadeus August ( as Christian ) to join himself and studly pal Gianni Macchia ( as Luigi ) in order to rob a Munich bank . Things don't go exactly as planned ( wouldn't you know it ) ; and , the heist turns into a hostage situation . " Bloody Friday " offers plenty of gratuitous violence , which must have been considerably more shocking in its day . A couple of the hostages contrast interestingly with foul-mouthed Harmstorf : Ernst Hilbich ( as Ernst ) clearly wants to be one of the boys , and Daniela Giordano ( as Dagmar ) wants nothing to do with men ( she's a Lesbian ) . Some of the performances are all right ; but , the actors are wasted in this bizarre , exploitive , and dated production .
Indian Giver	In the U . S . Southwestern desert , Indian maiden Mary Pickford ( as Iola ) is trapped by scum combing cut-throats . They fight over who is to have his way with Ms . Pickford . Along comes Yankee prospector Alfred Paget , who rescues Pickford , and takes her to his cabin . Thinking Mr . Paget is like all white men , she expects to be raped ; instead , she is given food ; and , so , she falls in love with her savior . But , Paget has a sweetheart ( Dorothy Bernard ) , who sends a letter announcing her arrival . Paget goes out prospecting , and Pickford follows . He shows her a gold stone , and she promises to let him know if she should happen upon one . Pickford returns to her own , savage people ; but , she remembers her promise . Pickford goes unbelievably overboard in her gratitude , later in the film . It's also possible that her " cross your heart " gesture , when she makes her promise , is meant to be a religious experience . This D . W . Griffith effort is rather more insulting than exciting . The extras are an illustrious lot .
A Terminator with Heart	" An international industrialist is determined to stop the interference of a world-leading ecological scientist . The industrialist hopes to continue his profitable , but environmentally unsafe practices , by sending his cyborg assassin to kill him . His plans take a turn when the cyborg's human side takes control and he refuses to kill the scientist , thus threatening to expose the evil man's enterprises , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Poorly produced in Italy , and poorly dubbed in English as " Hands of Steel " - this is a , consequently , poor " Terminator " movie imitation . Star cyborg Daniel Greene ( as Paco Queruak ) is a handsome bodybuilder . Cool blonde Janet Agren ( as Linda ) brings out his " human " side . George Eastman and Claudio Cassinelli ( his last feature ) are okay ; and , John Saxon phones one in . Mr . Greene's battle with the female cyborg is the highlight . Vendetta dal futuro ( 1986 ) Sergio Martino - Daniel Greene , Janet Agren , Claudio Cassinelli
Three Leaks and a Peak	Dreamy young Ashton Kutcher ( as Tom Stansfield ) wants a date with sexy blonde Tara Reid ( as Lisa Taylor ) . Ms . Reid thinks Mr . Kutcher is gay . Kutcher works for Reid's father , an anal retentive Terence Stamp ( as Jack Taylor ) . Kutcher agrees to " housesit " for the boss , believing it will get him closer to Reid . Mr . Stamp has a pet owl named " O . J . " , who becomes a toilet cokehead . This is a film to get your restricted to " G-rated " pre-teens ready for raunchier " R-rated " fare . It will help if they haven't seen the plot before , and especially like moronic potty humor . Remember , people get paid to act like this . My Boss's Daughter ( 2003 ) David Zucker - Ashton Kutcher , Tara Reid , Terence Stamp
Feeding the Myth Monster	" The James Dean Story " is introduced as " A different kind of motion picture , " explaining , " The presence of the leading character in this film has been made possible by the use of existing motion picture material , tape recordings of his voice and by means of a new technique - dynamic exploration of the still photograph . " The only " tape recordings of his voice " noteworthy is one short recording Mr . Dean make while visiting his family in Indiana ; he wanted to record any family recollections of his great-grandfather Cal Dean , intrigued because he played a similarly named " Cal " in " East of Eden " . Dean asks if Cal Dean was interested in art , and learns the relative was an auctioneer . James Dean was interested in art and had warm relationship with his family , obviously . That's the only 100 % accurate revelation in this documentary . James Dean was interested in art and had warm relationship with his family . An amazing " screen test " / " outtake " from " East of Eden " appears near the film's end . It's a black and white scene between Dean ( as Cal Trask ) and co-star Richard Davalos ( as Aron Trask ) . Dean is at his mesmerizing best . If this scene appeared only here , and no " East of Eden " film was completed , this documentary would be an essential , high rated film . But the scene , a perfect " 10 " in isolation , should be considered an " East of Eden " extra . Dean's " Traffic Safety Film " is also worth seeing . There are the expected interviews with family and friends . My favorites were the guy ( Lew Bracker ) going through a box of stuff Dean left with him , and Dean's family . There wasn't enough from Aunt Ortense and the letter from Dean to his little cousin was very nice . More reading of Dean's letters would have been welcome . Dean's unidentified writer friend seemed to have a better thesis for the film ; filmmakers might have considered developing it a main focus . Robert Altman's direction of Martin Gabel's reading of Stewart Stern's script is dreadful . What were they thinking ? Perhaps , filmmakers can be forgiven due to the closeness of Dean's passing . Don't expect " The James Dean Story " at all . This movie is more about Dean's effect on people ( both the fans and filmmakers ) than the man . It is very clearly an early piece of the James Dean myth-making " legend " . Tommy Sands sings " Let Me Be Loved " . The narrative refers to Dean as " He " with a god-like air . The shots of Dean's family seeming to " know " the moment he dies are truly wretched . The James Dean Story ( 1957 ) Robert Altman - James Dean , Martin Gabel , Richard Davalos
Don't Answer !	" A young woman of mixed parentage lives in the bayou , raised by a black voodoo priestess who looks to avenge the death of her husband , lynched by an angry white mob . As the tension rises due to the evil plans of the priestess , the young woman finds herself torn between two cultures . Hoping to break free from the control of the woman who raised her , the young woman finds she must confront the priestess in order to save her own life , as well as those the priestess intends to harm , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Voodoo ? Hocus-pocus ? Racist ? Trash ! The most astonishing thing about " Chloe , Love Is Calling You " is that it was directed by Marshall Neilan . One of the most well-known filmmakers of the 1920s , Mr . Neilan's films were once eagerly anticipated . He was especially successful in partnership with Mary Pickford ( see " Stella Maris " ) . Beautiful star Olive Borden ended her ten-year film career as " Chloe " , unfortunately . It also offers a good look at handsome Reed Howes ( as Wade ) and handsome Philip Ober ( as Jim ) , who was Vivian Vance's volatile husband ( off-screen ) during " I Love Lucy " . Chloe , Love Is Calling You ( 1934 ) Marshall Neilan - Olive Borden , Reed Howes , Philip Ober
Cry Me an Amazon River	" A young girl is the only survivor of a plane crash that carried herself and her father , a bank embezzler escaping with the money . Befriended by a gorilla that protects and cares for her , the girl grows up in the jungle guarding the fortune . The son of the bank president , from which the money was stolen , tracks down the girl to recover the money , but falls for the girl and must protect her from an unscrupulous guide , who wants the money for himself , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . The " stock footage " is so obvious , it's annoying . Co-stars Buster Crabbe ( as Ray Gorman ) and Julie London ( as Doreen Stockwell ) are in very good shape . Mr . Crabbe gets to show off his chest , but Ms . London remains covered . Crabbe plays his scenes with London notably well ( like a muscular Ozzie Nelson ) . In her first appearance on film , London is very beautiful . Since Ray " Nbongo " Corrigan plays the gorilla named " Samson " , probably " Nabonga " means gorilla in another language . Nabonga ( / 44 ) Sam Newfield - Buster Crabbe , Julie London , Barton MacLane
A Tunnel of Lunacy	This film has an astonishingly ludicrous , unbelievable plot . Doris Day and Richard Widmark are unable to conceive while ol ' reliable neighbor Gig Young has kid after kid , despite having ( arguably ) the biggest substance abuse problem on the block . With all the single beds and double shots , it's a wonder . Anyway , an adoption agency finds a baby for the childless Day / Widmark pair . Mr . Widmark is convinced he actually fathered the child they find , during a drunken one-night-stand . . . It gets worse . Ms . Day recognizes the newly adopted baby as Mr . Widmark's , and storms out on her bicycle ! The movie makes absolutely no sense . Day and Widmark are terrible parents . Widmark also sings , by the way , at a cocktail party and to the baby . Be warned ! Won't reveal the film's climax , but it should be easy to guess ? The Tunnel of Love ( 1958 ) Gene Kelly - Doris Day , Richard Widmark , Gig Young
The Least Dangerous Game	" While vacationing in the tropics , a group of teen-agers set sail to an apparent deserted island . What they discover when they arrive is that the island is owned by Dr . Balleau , an eccentric man with a passion for big-game hunting . After years of importing game onto the island for sport , Dr . Balleau has set his sights on a new quarry , those unfortunate enough to stumble upon his island . Now realizing what they're up against , the teen-agers must elude their host in the hopes of making ( it ) off the island alive , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . The sleeve's synopsis is inaccurate in describing the group of four as " teen-agers " . They are quite clearly " young people " in their 20s ; however , the film is funnier if you think of them as teenagers . Leading the group is tall Robert Reed ( as Johnny Randall ) , inappropriately paired with the shorter female , June Kerry ( as Betty Scott ) . Probably , followers of " The Brady Bunch " will enjoy seeing Mr . Reed before he essayed his most famous role . " Bloodlust ! " is better than your average " Brady Bunch " episode , but Reed doesn't demonstrate the same ability to make the most of a bad situation . Ralph Brooke's " Most Dangerous Game " hunter Wilton Graff ( as Balleau ) doesn't help much . Supporting performances vary . Bloodlust ! ( 1961 ) Ralph Brooke - Robert Reed , Wilton Graff , Walter Brooke
Spinning Out of Control	Elvis Presley is an out-of-shape rock ' n ' roll singer who digs girls and race cars . His musical group dreams of appearing on " The Ed Sullivan Show " ; but , they don't look bookable , despite some nice songs . The group's visual " gimmick " is Deborah Walley as its " tomboy " drummer . She can't get the guys to notice her . Diane McBain is a writer interested in Mr . Presley's sex life . Best of the women is Shelley Fabares , the spoiled rich girl interested in Elvis . She , and the man who plays her father ( Carl Betz ) were both on " The Donna Reed Show " . Ms . Fabares , Mr . Betz and flunkie Warren Berlinger are more entertaining than the others . Presley's good " Spinout " songs are not presented well , visually ; the film attempts to hide his overweight status , with varying success . Presley's movements are noticeably stiff and ungraceful during the musical numbers . Ms . Walley , with her hair , make-up , and tight pants , does not look like a boy . Well past the point where he didn't need to , Elvis isn't trying . Spinout ( 1966 ) Norman Taurog - Elvis Presley , Shelley Fabares , Diane McBain
What's Good for the Country Is Good for General Motors	" Jeffrey Lynn plays an ex-politician who blames big business for his failure to get re-elected . To expose big business as an evil monster he joins his uncle's newspaper . When his little sister is caught in a cave-in , the town's largest company comes to her aid and he must now reconsider " his opposition to corporate America . Mr . Lynn ( as Blake Washburn ) and Marjorie Reynolds ( as Janice Hunt ) would have been better off playing the parents of the girl - what the heck were they doing before his five years in the Army and two in the State Capitol ? Best friendly Alan Hale Jr . ( as Slim Haskins ) and sagely Donald Crisp ( as John MacFarland ) serve very workmanlike supporting parts . Mr . Crisp gets to end a speech with director / writer Arthur Pierson's obtuse observation , " When this country was first discovered , there was nothing here . " Marilyn Monroe ( as Iris Martin ) has a relatively small , but pointed , secretarial role . It probably goes without saying that Ms . Monroe's occasional appearances , in close-fitting attire , are the film's highlights . Home Town Story ( 1951 ) - Jeffrey Lynn , Alan Hale Jr . , Marilyn Monroe
James Dean plays John the Baptist	It's Easter ; and a group of soldiers note how war " Hills " all blend together , as they rest after a battle . To combat their war weariness , the group have some coffee , and hear the story of Jesus Christ . Christ's Hill was " Hill Number One " , where he was crucified . In flashback , the story shifts to tell the main story - - of Christ's resurrection . After Christ's death , a surprised Pilate witness several of his people are being converted to Christianity . Following his mother Mary's lead , the followers of Jesus recite " The Lord's Prayer " . Many people celebrate Christ's resurrection . Back in the present , the soldiers learn their allies have taken another Hill . Lastly , viewers are led in a Catholic prayer . This was produced on a limited budget , for a specific purpose ; and , understandably , it is not a great production . Ruth Hussey and Leif Erickson star as Mary ( the mother ) and Pilate . They are both memorable in their roles , considering the production limitations . Ms . Hussy emotes properly , and Mr . Erickson looks almost on the road to conversion in probably the most memorable performance . There are familiar and unfamiliar players - - some good and some bad . Most notable is , of course , James Dean , in his first available screen performance . There isn't much sign of the later Dean . I believe he comes on about 20 minutes in , if you want to skip to that part . He receives his cue from a line Mary says ; so look for Ruth Hussey as Mary , as Dean's cue comes after she begins . It looks like a ' bit " , but he comes back into the story . Roddy McDowall plays a Christian soldier ( the " Professor " ) in the " present " , and has no scenes with Dean . Hill Number One ( / 51 ) Arthur Pierson - Ruth Hussey , Leif Erickson , James Dean
The Wong Man	" When ' The Wentworth Castle ' ( a ship ) catches ablaze , killing numerous people , shipping tycoon Cyrus Wentworth is distraught over the loss , and is found shot dead in his office . Dick Fleming is the prime suspect in the mind of the none-to-bright ( sic ) police captain Bill Street . Dick is a business rival , and happens to be in love with Wentworth's daughter Cynthia . When cub reporter Bobbie Logan puts Mr . Wong on the case , the result is a foregone conclusion , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Boris Karloff politely bows out of the lackluster " Mr . Wong " series , after this entry . This time , as always , Wong uses his wiser " oriental mind " to unravel a mystery that nobody else can see ( don't bother trying to solve it at home ; there really isn't a solvable mystery to be found ) . Cute and bubbly Marjorie Reynolds ( as Bobbie Logan ) does appear . So does Grant Withers ( as Bill Street ) , who , as Ms . Logan notes , " always arrests the wrong man . " The film makes good use of stock footage . The uncredited cast is good ; for example , catch Angelo Rossitto as a newsboy in the opening , and Gibson Gowland as the doctor who treats Karloff's " flesh wound " . Doomed to Die ( 1940 ) William Nigh - Boris Karloff , Marjorie Reynolds , Grant Withers
A Dose of Slapstick	Roy Rogers ( as Roy ) , Smiley Burnette ( as Frog ) , George " Gabby " Hayes ( as Gabby ) , and " The Sons of the Pioneers " defend Cherokee City ranchers against taxes imposed on transporting cattle . Edmund McDonald ( as Ross Lambert ) leads the evil-doers . The story is slight . Mr . Burnette and Mr . Hayes team-up for a ludicrous " two-men-in-the-horse " joke . This , and action sequences appear to have been speeded up for dramatic and / or comic effect . The film includes a generous , interesting amount of location work ; climaxing with a storm-drenched river scene . Unfortunately , the relatively low budget makes certain sequences appear more technically incompetent than exciting . Song highlights are when Mr . Rogers sings with Riverboat workers , on " Who's Gonna Help Me Sing ? " and " The River Robin " . Heart of the Golden West ( 1942 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , Smiley Burnette , George ' Gabby ' Hayes
Shooting the Breeze	Roy Rogers is a " border investigator " who arrives at San Angelo for some singing , and some problem solving - the problem is silver smuggling along the U . S . - Mexican border , and murder rears its ugly head . Comic sidekick Andy Devine ( as " Cookie " ) is local sheriff / dog catcher . Dale Evans ( as " Helen " ) is a reporter with a nose for news , and a penchant for trouble . Bob Nolan and the Sons of the Pioneers sing " Hot Lead " and shoot the breeze . " Bells of San Angelo " is full of absurdities . Mr . Devine's dogs and raccoon keep the production looking perpetually infantile - one of the dogs even tosses a bad guy over a cliff . There are several scenes with Mr . Rogers and Ms . Evans ( especially Ms . Evans ) performing quite well , but the production does not give them a proper outlet for their obvious charm and ability ; they shine in the " Robin Hood " scene , and during a couple of songs ( like " I Love the West " ) . The color photography is nice , but the film is lackluster . Bells of San Angelo ( 1947 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Dale Evans , Andy Devine
It Takes a Motif	Hunky , handsome Shane West ( as Ryan Woodman ) thinks he's a " nerd " . Mr . West persuades popular James Franco ( as Chris Campbell ) to help him get into sexy Jodi Lyn O'Keefe ( as Ashley Grant ) ; in return for Mr . Franco's assistance in seducing West's sweet ' n ' sexy neighbor , Marla Sokoloff ( as Maggie Carter ) . Think ? " Cyrano de Bergerac ! " Eventually , Franco strips to his thong , and gets tied up . All of these characters act like they are in high school ? and they ARE in high school . Obviously , they have been kept back a few years . You could laugh along with them , if they did anything funny . So , how is West able to sleep at night with someone like Ms . Sokoloff that close ? And , visa versa . . . I'd be up all night . Whatever It Takes ( 2000 ) David Raynr - Shane West , Marla Sokoloff , James Franco
Hits the Wong Note	" In his latest case , Mr . Wong is investigating the murder of a police office ( sic ) at the request of his friend Captain Street . The murder investigation leads Mr . Wong to a smuggling ring operating on the San Francisco waterfront . After three additional murders take place , Mr . Wong is able to track down the killer and expose the smugglers , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . This episode's most interesting plot development is Mr . Wong ( Boris Karloff ) ' s discovery of the killer's use of a " remote control " radio device . The plot isn't very interesting , but the relatively large " remote control " is ; perhaps it was developed for movie plots only , however . Capt . Street ( Grant Withers ) shouts his lines excessively , which gets other actors involved . Blonde reporter Marjorie Reynolds adds her feminine charms . Still , the Monogram series is lifeless and obnoxious . The Fatal Hour ( 1940 ) William Nigh - Boris Karloff , Marjorie Reynolds , Grant Withers
Skydiving without a Blanket	Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello get involved with skydiving on the beach - after " Bullets " Paul Lynde uses the sport to promote " Sugar Kane " Linda Evans . Frankie and Annette get into the sport , with Don Rickles ' " Big Drop " ; and , they try out skydivers Deborah Walley and John Ashley , too . Harvey Lembeck's " Eric Von Zipper " falls for " Sugar " . " Bonehead " Jody McCrae meets and falls in love with Mermaid Marta Kirsten . Buster Keaton chases a bikini-clad young woman around . The music is lightly pleasant - especially when sounding like Brian Wilson's Beach Boys , as in " Cycle Set " , for example . Mermaid Kirsten's was the storyline I found the most enchanting . Kirsten the Mermaid was on " Lost in Space " as Judy Robinson . Michael Nader could have had a bigger part . As far as the low points , it's difficult to pick one - there are so many weak elements of " Beach Blanket Bingo " - possibly , it's Eric Von Zipper's solo song . Beach Blanket Bingo ( / 65 ) William Asher - Frankie Avalon , Annette Funicello , Paul Lynde
Sheer Torture	Jack London's short story " A Thousand Deaths " is virtually unrecognizable in this sluggish cinematic translation . For " Torture Ship " , the self-described protagonist becomes Lyle Talbot ( as Bob Bennett ) . The original's father is now uncle Irving Pichel ( as Herbert Stander ) . A mad doctor , Mr . Pichel has isolated what he calls , " The active ingredient of the endocrine glands governing criminality . " Pichel takes Mr . Talbot , some aides , and some crooks on a cruise to experimentation . Talbot is " free from criminal taint , " but becomes temporarily mean . Additional nastiness ensues . . . Torture Ship ( 1939 ) Victor Halperin - Lyle Talbot , Irving Pichel , Julie Bishop
The Yellow Haired of Texas	Texas blondes Helen Slater ( as Billie Jean ) and Christian Slater ( as Binx ) go out for a ride on his motor scooter ; they meet some local toughs , who show unwelcome interest in Ms . Slater . Mr . Slater douses the head punk with his vanilla drink , and the Slaters take off for a swim . While the Slaters take a dip , the toughs steal Christian's scooter , which they later trash . Helen goes to the head tough's dad , and demands just over $600 . 00 ; or , the value of her little brother's scooter . Then , oops , the punk's father is accidentally shot . The Slaters go on the lam ; soon , they hook up with Keith Gordon ( as Lloyd ) , to provide a love interest for Helen . They become famous rebels for the youth set , adopting the motto " Fair Is Fair " . " The Legend of Billie Jean " starts out fun ; but , it is brought down by a truly wretched finale .
Island of Love	While the United States and Japan duke it out during World War II , doctors Otto Kruger ( as Jan ) , Elissa Landi ( as Royce ) , and Donald Woods ( as Michael ) must sort out their " love triangle . " On the strategically located Philippine island of " Corregidor " , the good doctors get to see some of the war action . Stock footage is flown in . Of course , Ms . Landi , being a " lady doctor " , is protected from viewing " mutilated " corpses . Right . Although it isn't enough to recommend the film , Rick Vallin ( as Pinky Mason ) and Wanda McKay ( as Hey Dutch ) are relatively entertaining . " Dedicated to the United States and Philippine Armed Services "
Poe Hits the Skids	Renown writer Mark Redfield ( as Edgar Allen Poe ) tries to conquer old addictions and start a new life for himself , as a Baltimore , Maryland magazine publisher . However , blackouts , delirium , and rejection threaten to thwart his efforts . He would also like to rekindle romance with an old sweetheart , a significantly flawed prospect , as things turns out . Mr . Redfield also directed this dramatization of the mysterious last days of Edgar Allen Poe . Redfield employs a lot of black and white , color , and trick photography to create mood . Kevin G . Shinnick ( as Dr . John Moran ) performs well , relatively speaking . It's not enough .
Hello , Dollie !	The first known film directed by D . W . Griffith ; it's just so-so . Arthur V . Johnson and Linda Arvidson like to take their little girl Dollie ( Gladys Egan ) out for afternoon walks and such . One day , vagrant Charles Inslee tries to sell Ms . Arvidson a basket . When she shines the tramp on , he gets belligerent ; then , Mr . Johnson beats him up . Seeking revenge , Mr . Inslee kidnaps the little girl . The " exciting climax " is when the barrel tumbles down a waterfall and along a river . It's not all that exciting ; the falls should have been nearer to the end of the rolling on the river . . . By " Way Down East " ( 1920 ) , Mr . Griffith had the waterfalling excitement correctly presented . " The Adventures of Dollie " is more silly than adventurous . The Adventures of Dollie ( 1908 ) D . W . Griffith - Arthur V . Johnson , Linda Arvidson , Charles Inslee
The Black Veil	Husband and wife D . W . Griffith and Linda Arvidson separately dress up for a costume party . At the party , Mr . Griffith does not recognize the beguiling " nun " he meets is really Ms . Arvidson . The two dance , and flirt . Ms . Arvidson doesn't know whether to be furious or flattered . After the two separate , and change costumes , hilarity and mistaken identity ensue . The main comic point is that Arvidson has changed her costume with the couple's " colored " maid . Edward Dillon and Robert Harron are notable cast members , the latter in a typical messenger boy role . Most notable for the " split screen " costume changing scene . Directed not by Griffith , but by Wallace McCutcheon . Griffith and Arvidson were real life husband and wife ; and , she is the standout performer " At the French Ball " .
The Illegitimately Staged	In Biblical times , Jerusalem rebels under Roman rule . After an ( unfortunately staged ) accident fells a Roman soldier , Herman Rottger ( as Ben Hur ) is taken into custody . William S . Hart ( as Messala ) orders Mr . Rottger become a slave . Soon , Rottger wins freedom , and seeks revenge against Mr . Hart , in a " Chariot Race " . For the famed Chariot Race , the two stars simply ride by a stationary camera , while costumed people cheer . The good folks at Kalem ( the film company responsible ) were counting on viewers to have either seen " Ben-Hur " on stage , or read the Lew Wallace book . And , undoubtedly , most 1900s flicker watchers had the prior knowledge necessary to understand the action . This film highlights the inferiority of the medium , at that time . Director Olcott and Gene Gauntier , who was credited with having written the " Ben Hur " scenario , would have much greater artistic success with films like " From the Manger to the Cross " ( 1912 ) . Ben Hur ( / 07 ) Sidney Olcott , Frank Rose - Herman Rottger , William S . Hart
Bowery Black Eyes	Loafing leader Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs McGuiness ) is unemployed , but Bobby Jordan ( as Danny Graham ) , Donald Haines ( as Skinny ) , David Gorcey ( as Peewee ) , Bobby Stone ( as Louie ) , and Ernest " Sunshine Sammy " Morrison ( as Scruno ) are figuratively " Flying Wild " with jobs at an aviation company . While at work , Mr . Jordan is recruited as a spy . Then , " The East Side Kids " get tangled up in a dangerous sabotage scheme . Soon , it will threaten to claim the life of an East Side Kid ! - Don't miss the opening " car ride " to work ; the car unexpectedly tips over on its side , after a sharp turn , and threatens to take the " real life " of several " East Side Kids " . You may ( not ) want to hang in for the end " joke " ( to see how a " black eye " might show up on Mr . Morrison's face ) . Flying Wild ( / 41 ) William West - Leo Gorcey , Bobby Jordan , David Gorcey
Divorce Snooze , Divorce Snooze	Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton ( as Jane and Martin Reynolds ) star in a two-part TV movie , showing their characters ' marriage crumbling into divorce . Mr . Burton's " Divorce His " aired February 6 , 1973 . Ms . Taylor's " Divorce Hers " aired February 7 , 1973 . Carrie Nye ( as Diana Proctor ) and Gabriele Ferzetti ( as Turi Livicci ) play the " other woman " and " other man " . The children outperformed their illustrious elders . This sure sounded like a good idea - - divorce told from the differing husband / wife points of view ; with notorious divorcées , and terrific performers , Taylor and Burton in the lead roles . The result is startlingly dull . There are few reasons to care whether the couple divorces , or not . The differing perspectives are slight , and uninteresting . And , don't expect any boozy " Virginia Woolf " - type arguments . Although it's highly irrelevant , or should be , it must be said that Taylor looks very beautiful in many scenes . Since the effort to display her beauty is so obvious ; I will mention she was , in my opinion , most alluring in the scene when she was in bed , in the blue nightgown , talking on the telephone .
Seizure Inducing Cinema	On the east coast of Florida , epileptic scientist Ronald Reagan ( as John Galen ) rents a house from attractive , but loony , Viveca Lindfors ( as Ann Gracy ) . The house comes with a maid , Lillian Yarbo ( as Josephine ) , who seems to appear from a different movie . Ms . Lindfors ' sexy sister , Osa Massen ( as Lisa ) , visits Mr . Reagan , and he begins to become intrigued by Lindfors ' tragic history - she thinks her dead husband " Bill " speaks to her . Broderick Crawford ( as Shawn ) is a believer . The " house " sets , location , photography , and direction are strengths . Reagan is thoroughly unconvincing , and the story is wastefully insufferable . Night Unto Night ( 1949 ) Don Siegel - Ronald Reagan , Viveca Lindfors , Broderick Crawford
Duck and Cover	In order to avoid the draft , Buddy Hackett ( as Admiral John Paul Jones ) and Mickey Rooney ( as Kermit Beetle McKay ) have joined the Navy . " Everything's Ducky " for the pair when they're assigned an easy mission ; in " Operation Bird Brain " , they are to set free a recently dead officer's duck . The sailors become attached to " Scuttlebutt " , the duck who can talk . Mr . Hackett and Mr . Rooney take the duck out drinking , and become financially attached to Scuttlebutt . They try to save their feathered friend from Navy officers , who want to cut the bird's brain out . Contrived lunacy as in the hands of Hackett and Rooney is criminal . This film is both unfunny and unpleasant . Despite Scuttlebutt's boasting he can handle a few martinis , the duck gets roaring drunk . The sight of the drunken , neck-wobbling duck is unsettling . It's also obvious filmmakers have put some irritant in the duck's mouth , in close-ups , to make it appear to be talking . The duck looks very uncomfortable . Jackie Cooper ( as Parmell ) makes an impressive re-appearance on film , after a long absence ; his appearance is mercifully short , considering the star-billing , and weakness of material . And , singer Joanie Sommers ( as Nina ) appears , without singing . Everything's Ducky ( 1961 ) Don Taylor - Buddy Hackett , Mickey Rooney , Jackie Cooper
Abort !	" A research scientist is experimenting with human DNA in an attempt to create the perfect human being . His work has made it to the point where he can take a human fetus and accelerate its growth to that of an adult within a few days . His latest creation is a ( spoiler omitted ) , but side effects from the process ( spoiler omitted ) , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " Embryo " opens by promising : " The film you are about to see is not all science fiction . It is based upon medical technology which currently exists for fetal growth outside the womb . It could be a possibility tomorrow ? or today , " according to Dr . Charles M . Brinkman III . Right . And , Dr . Joyce Brothers appears , later , at a party with Roddy McDowall . First , we see Rock Hudson ( as Dr . Paul Holliston ) light a cigarette and drive recklessly ( watch that speedometer ! ) during a storm ; unfortunately , he hits a dog . Mr . Hudson takes the wounded canine home . He learns it is pregnant , and manages to save the life of one of the puppies , due to his experimental knowledge of fetal growth . What this really boils down to is that Hudson uses an experimental drug to grow the embryo , so that it can survive outside the mother's womb . The dog , " Number One " , grows to adult-size rapidly , and is passed off as its mother . Hudson lives with his sister-in-law Diane Ladd ( as Martha Douglas ) ; since his wife Nicole , also a doctor , died in another car accident . Ms . Ladd seems more emotionally stable about Nicole's death than Hudson , who survived the crash that killed his wife . Things begin to get creepy when Hudson's dog shows an intelligence level far above any normal dog . Then , Hudson decides to use his accelerated embryo growth on a human , Barbara Carrera ( as Victoria Spencer ) . Hudson and the cast try their best ; but , the " Embryo " storyline is wretchedly absurd nonsense . If you take away her silly opening and closing scenes , Ms . Carrera's valiant characterization almost works ; she might have been a bigger star , if offered better films than this . The infantile ending suggests a sequel ; but , happily , the idea was aborted .
Linda Arvidson Travels Light	Linda Arvidson ( as Jennie ) and Harry Solter ( as Frank ) are enjoying a romantic tryst , when in walks her father Charles Inslee ; furious , he chases Mr . Solter out of the house . Undaunted , he goes to her balcony and begs her to elope . Ms . Arvidson is agreeable , and goes to pack . Then , burglar George Gebhardt arrives to rob the place . Though he doesn't get much in the way of booty , thieving Gebhardt manages to use Arvidson's trunk to escape from the police ? A Contrived Comedy . Note , during the balcony scene , Solter goes off-camera , so burglar Gebhardt can enter the house undetected . And , Arvidson travels very light , since there appears to be nothing in her heavy trunk ; perhaps she just wanted to buff up beau Solter ? Director D . W . Griffith , Robert Harron , and Florence Lawrence are illustrious extras .
Shotgun Wedding Spinster	Mabel Stoughton is a large-nosed woman who is , apparently , fond of ridiculous hairstyles . She reads ( presumably ) " The Three Ages " , and has a yen for men . She finally snags one , assisted by her father's shotgun ; and , they proceed to the altar . The intended groom escapes , which leads the entire wedding party on a merry chase ? Notable for the New Jersey location footage featured prominently in the ending chase . Ms . Stoughton looks appropriately ridiculous , and could have had a more successful film career with better material . D . W . Griffith make an on-screen appearance , alongside his Biograph troupe . The supporting cast includes a " silly Negro " , with Mack Sennett , Harry Solter , and George Gebhardt . All in all , not very funny .
Revenge of the Gypsy	On Christmas Eve , Judge Harry Solter " throws the book " at gypsy George Gebhardt ; the convicted man's wife , Marion Lenard , delivers a furious protest , and is hauled out of the court . Later , the gypsy woman trails Judge Solter to his home , seeking revenge . Home , the Judge and wife Florence Lawrence are preoccupied with Christmas - - he is sneaking around a packaged frock for her ; and , she has wrapped a rifle for him . Little Gladys Egan , their daughter , is ( presumably ) looking forward to the arrival of Santa Claus ; instead , Gypsy Lenard climbs in through the window , ready to enact her terrifying revenge ? Director D . W . Griffith's 1908 Christmas gift to filmgoers doesn't quite deliver the goods ; though , the final scene captures the spirit of the season . Mainly , " An Awful Moment " climaxes with an often filmed set-up involving : a bound and gagged woman , a gun , and a string . In this film , the awful moment isn't very suspenseful . Probably due to camera and budget restrictions , it's not very clear how a rescue is to be achieved ; additionally , you have to assume this family takes some heavy sleeping potion - - little Gladys is an especially heavy Christmas Eve sleeper !
On the March	An Irishman comes home too find his family being visited by a bill collector ; so , the father throws the man out . The bill collector enlists the local police , and chaos ensues . As events unfold , the story gets rather confusing . Edward Dillon and D . W . Griffith appear , the latter in a minor role as actor " Lawrence Griffith " . Mr . Griffith doesn't seem to have offered much suggestion to director Wallace McCutcheon or cameraman G . W . Bitzer . The story was , perhaps , too ambitious for the effort given . The " Caught by Wireless " stage is interesting , with its timely desk and calendar . Interestingly , the errand boy is not played by Robert Harron . Mr . Harron stated that his school friend James Smith , who also joined Griffith's team , played similar such roles , circa 1907-'08 .
Making Graven Images	Stephen Schwartz ' music , especially the song " Day By Day " , is excellent . Otherwise , this movie is really , Really , REally , REAlly , Really , REALLy , REALLY awful . Why does it exist ? Well , it looks like it might have been an entertaining stage musical ? and the Christian / Hippie seemed angle seems natural enough ? so , the filmmakers added the expanded NYC locations and sets ? and , they thought that , you know , it has a style ? albeit unsuccessful . It's interesting to see the " World Trade Center " buildings . The " All for the Best " dance around the streets , and skyscrapers , is visually clever , and well performed by Victor Garber and David Haskell . More often than not , though , the film looks exuberantly ludicrous . Godspell ( 1973 ) David Greene - Victor Garber , David Haskell , Lynne Thigpen
A Funny Thing Didn't Happen on the Way to the Jungle	After a diamond heist , Huntz Hall ( as Sach Jones ) sniffs out some booty , which leads police to believe he's an accomplice . Actually , pill-popping Mr . Hall has acquired the power to smell the presence of diamonds ; and , he is released . To wit , leader Leo Gorcey ( as Slip Mahoney ) decides to take Hall and " Bowery Boys " David " Condon " Gorcey ( as Chuck ) and Benny " Bennie " Bartlett ( as Butch ) to the " dark condiment " of Africa . There , they search for a fortune in lost diamonds , and mingle with natives ? " The Bowery Boys " and " Africa " do not mix . A good rest would have been preferable to this moronic , cheap , and clammy movie . The " lion scenes " are startlingly ineffective - look at them for an example of what NOT to try on a small budget . Gorcey appears alternately tired and angry . Hall is stuck with absolutely humorless material . Curvy Laurette Luez plays a luscious jungle girl in modest one-piece , Woody Strode collects a paycheck , and Clint ( " Cheyenne " ) Walker has a memorable film cameo debut as " Tarzan " , just before the curtain closes on " Jungle Gents " . Jungle Gents ( / 54 ) Edward Bernds - Huntz Hall , Leo Gorcey , Bernard Gorcey
Spinal Tap	Red Creek doctor Boris Karloff ( as Bernard Adrian ) goes Ape ( as Ray Corrigan ) for pretty paraplegic Maris Wrixon ( as Frances Clifford ) . " Doctor Adrian is a researcher looking for a cure to polio that would benefit his young friend Frances Clifford , who suffers from the disease . His research centers upon the use of spinal fluid in a serum that could return mobility to sufferers of polio . The escape of a circus ape and the injury of its trainer provide an opportunity to test the procedure on Frances and it provides positive , but limited , results , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Shockingly ill-conceived . The Ape ( 1940 ) William Nigh - Boris Karloff , Maris Wrixon , Gene O'Donnell
Is There a Monkey in the House ?	Ronald Reagan is a college professor who seeks to prove " nurture ' more important than " nature " by playing house with Diana Lynn ( surrogate mother ) and Chimpanzee - Bonzo . The homey environment will prove " bad " monkeys can be " good " monkeys ( just like people ) with a little family love and understanding ! The premise is ludicrous , of course - but , it's really only done to set-up a situation to make a movie starring Bonzo the Chimp . Bonzo is fine . How is he supposed to know the story is illogical ? Since it has a chimpanzee to share scenes with , the movie is disjointed - for example , witness this sequence : Bonzo escapes into a tree , is joined by Reagan in an obviously different tree , drops eyeglasses to nowhere , jumps into the house in time for the next scene , then shocks everyone by escaping from the house ! It all manages to looks even worse than it is ; assisted , obviously , by a low budget . Bedtime for Bonzo ( 1951 ) Frederick De Cordova - Ronald Reagan , Diana Lynn , Walter Slezak
You Can't Teach an Old Dog New Tricks	According to the good folks at Disney / Buena Vista , " Jack Crandall ( Dwayne Hickman ) flies a helicopter for a radio station . But , Crandall's traffic reports are caught in a bad-ratings tailspin . . . until a huge St . Bernard dog named Barabbas stows away on the craft , sending the program's ratings through the clouds ! - But , both Crandall and his girlfriend Kim ( Mary Ann Mobley ) are unaware that Barabbas is a hopeless kleptomaniac until the dog graduates to the world of high crime by casually lifting a million-dollar necklace from a team of professional jewel thieves . Join the fun in a hilarious adventure that'll have the whole family dizzy with laughter ! " This movie had me reeling with something , but it wasn't laughter . My Dog , the Thief ( - ) Robert Stevenson - Dwayne Hickman , Mary Ann Mobley , Elsa Lanchester
The Power of Drink ( and a Mexican Woman )	Frank Powell ( as George Peabody ) and Mary Pickford ( as Ruth King ) are a-courting . When Mr . Powell decides to venture out west , to make his fortune , Ms . Pickford is devastated . She promises to wait for his successful return , and gives him half of a locket ; and , they pledge their eternal love . While Pickford pines away , Powell gets way-out-west drunk , and takes up with Mexican woman Marion Leonard . Powell's descent is a little difficult to comprehend ; perhaps it is the power of drink . He seemed to have very little use for " The Broken Locket " while in Ms . Leonard's company . Leonard writes one powerful letter , by the way ; the mere reading of one may cause blindness !
The Quality of Mercy Is Not Restrained	Handsome , troubled Vietnam stud Steve Sandor ( as Olie Hand ) returns home , just as dad Richard X . Slattery ( as Mark Hand ) is having some problems with transient " carnie " Rockne Tarkington ( who is " sensitive , intelligent , and black " as Prophet ) and a gaggle of lawbreaker types . They include Ron Thompson ( as Dunn ) , David Booth ( as Beetle ) , and Sid Haig ( as Pill Box ) . You don't mess with vets , boy . Of course , flashbacks ensue ! Fists fly ! Heads get knocked ! and , Hand's town erupts in WAR ! It's predictable , exploitive , and sometimes offensive . " The No Mercy Man " shows no mercy to a fairly good cast and crew . The " Trained to Kill , U . S . A . " re-title is appropriate , anyway . The No Mercy Man ( 1973 ) Daniel Vance - Steve Sandor , Rockne Tarkington , Richard X . Slattery
Miscast Your Musical	Successful California " Gold Rush " prospector Lee Marvin ( as Ben Rumson ) is in his element after digging a grave for the brother of singing cowboy Clint Eastwood ( as Pardner ) . A self-described " boozing man , " Mr . Marvin likes to live under the influence . Like Mr . Eastwood , Marvin also likes to sing . The two men become companions , sealing their relationship with a simple exchange : Marvin says , " I like you Pardner , " and Eastwood says , " I like you Ben . " Since they are heterosexual , Marvin buys beautiful Jean Seberg ( as Elizabeth ) to be their wife . At $800 , Ms . Seberg's a steal . Simply put , " Paint Your Wagon " is a too long , stupid , and wasteful movie . But , it didn't have to be ? Since the studio was obviously spending money , why didn't somebody suggest paying Frank Sinatra to do Marvin's role , and giving Elvis Presley whatever Colonel Parker was asking , to take Eastwood's part ? Then , think about the fun in casting " Elizabeth " . The mind boggles . Anyway , the musical highlights are Marvin's " Wandrin ' Star " ( late in the film ) and Harve Presnell's " They Call the Wind Mariah " ( early in the running time ) . Ray Walston is a supporting asset , and Tom Ligon catches on fast . Paint Your Wagon ( 1969 ) Joshua Logan - Lee Marvin , Clint Eastwood , Jean Seberg
Production Line Rogers	Roy Rogers stars as " Young Buffalo Bill " Cody , surveying the New Mexico landscape , fighting off Comanche Indians , and defending a diamond mine . And , wouldn't you know it ? - " Buffalo Bill " had a sidekick named " Gabby " , played by George " Gabby " Hayes ! Pauline Moore ( as Tonia ) adds some feminine charm to the running time . The film's highlight is its generous location footage . Not New Mexico , of course , but California ; and there are specific sequences are from rocky Vasquez Park , according to IMDb data . Otherwise , this is a very rushed looking western . Produced off of the Roy Rogers Republic western-production-line , with the expected quality control . Mr . Rogers ' musical interludes are below par . The story is unimaginative , and you have to wonder about the sobriety of certain cast and crew ? Young Buffalo Bill ( 1940 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Pauline Moore
( He's Got ) The Magic Touch	" This two-part story is about Peter Hurkos , a man trying to escape from the Nazis , who falls from a five-story building and is severely injured . After awakening from a coma , Hurkos discovers that he now has some amazing psychic abilities . Struggling to deal with his newfound abilities , Hurkos falls into drinking heavily while trying a career in show business , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . That's a fairly accurate description of " The Peter Hurkos Story ( Part 1 ) " . Albert Salmi ( as Hurkos ) tries his best - but this " true story " of a man's uncanny psychic powers , resulting from his Nazi-era experience , never rings true . It might have been more convincing if Mr . Hurkos recalled some predispositions toward the psychic , before the fall . Betty Garde , as modern day witch " Tante Elsa " , is the half-hour's highlight . And , you might enjoy John Banner , pre - " Sgt . Schultz " . The Peter Hurkos Story , pt 1 ( / 60 ) John Newland - Albert Salmi , Betty Garde , John Banner
Behold a Pale Horse	" On an overseas flight to London , journalist ' Buck ' Williams ( Kirk Cameron ) and pilot Rayford Steele ( Brad Johnson ) are caught in the middle of the most incredible event in history . Suddenly , without warning , dozens of passengers simply vanish into thin air . But it doesn't stop there . It soon becomes clear that millions of people are missing from around the world . As chaos and anarchy engulf the world , both men set out on vastly different paths in a desperate search for answers , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Like Mr . Cameron says , " There's no denying The Truth . " If you were deaf and blind , you would , still , find that this movie stinks - to high heaven . Anyone but a true believer in the theological perspective presented has a right to be offended . So , it's better to seek redeeming qualities in other ways . The performances , as a whole , aren't inspired - but , they are , at least , serviceable . It's nice to see Colin Fox at work , and Gordon Currie makes a good impression . " Left Behind " cannot be saved , however . For what it's worth , the story could be engaging - but , as soon as it gets moderately interesting , it's over . How can a Christian God terrorize these non-believers ? How is it that neither He nor the Anti-Christ are able to detect Kirk Cameron's goodness ? Perhaps , God doesn't save Cameron after his epiphany in the toilet because He has a plan for Cameron ? Perhaps , the Anti-Christ is keeping knowledge regarding Cameron's true feelings secret ? Perhaps , a sequel in in the offering ? Pass it over . Left Behind ( / 01 ) Vic Sarin - Kirk Cameron , Brad Johnson , Gordon Currie
( Yes , He's ) The Great Pretender	This week's concluding half-hour begins by documenting Hurkos ( Albert Salmi ) ' s work with Dr . Lars Lindstrom ( Alf Kjellin ) , a likely parapsychologist . The doctor puts Hurkos through the obligatory ESP ( extra sensory perception ) tests . Hurkos does very well - but , really , how could he not ? " God gave such a gift , " it's explained . Then , Hurkos helps police find murders , like bowling alley worker Andrew Prine ( as Walter Bird ) . Later , Hurkos claimed to have identified both the Boston Strangler and Charles Manson . Finally , the real Hurkos is brought on camera by host John Newland . Not very convincing . The Peter Hurkos Story , pt 2 ( / 60 ) John Newland - Albert Salmi , Andrew Prine , Peter Hurkos
Ronald Reagan Takes Shirley Temple in a Bizarre Act of Unnatural Love	In a small Ohio town , randy lawyer Ronald Reagan ( as Tom Bates ) is rumored to be the father , in a child-producing scandal . Eighteen years later , the child has grown into perky student Shirley Temple ( as Mary Hagen ) . " That Hagen Girl " doesn't know about her shadowy past , but intuitively feels the taint . When Mr . Reagan returns to town , both he and Temple hear the father / daughter story ( which everyone else in the cast knows ) . Reagan dismisses the story as malicious gossip , while courting Temple's teacher , Lois Maxwell ( as Julia Kane ) . Meanwhile , Temple scores with athletic Rory Calhoun ( as Ken Freneau ) . After Calhoun spontaneously weds Penny Edwards ( as Christine Delaney ) , Temple gets expelled after a wild night out with fun-loving Conrad Janis ( as Dewey Koons ) , who called Temple and Calhoun " The gruesome twosome of 1947 . " Reagan , who was impressed with Temple's performance as " Juliet " in her school play , offers to pay for her University education . Temple takes it as fatherly interest ; but , Ronald Reagan is falling in love with young Shirley Temple ? This is a very strange film . The now not-so-shocking " romance " between the older Reagan and younger Temple is overshadowed by their timelessly unconvincing and unappealing performances - at no time do they EVER seem like they are falling in love . The supporting players , several in early appearances , are a few notches better . Certainly , young Janis realizes the full potential of his ( " Dewey Koons " ) role - something this adept and entertaining actor would do for decades to come . That Hagen Girl ( 1947 ) Peter Godfrey - Shirley Temple , Ronald Reagan , Conrad Janis
Marion Leonard is Decked Out	At a seaside resort , almost any lady can draw the " mashers " . Marion Leonard is " The Gibson Girl " , an extraordinarily beautiful woman ; so much so , she draws a crowd of admiring followers wherever she goes . The fact that Ms . Leonard's feminine frame is always complimented by figure hugging frocks doesn't help the men stay away . Tired of the manly attention , Leonard endeavors to pretend she has fat legs ; finally , will the men leave her alone ? Marion Leonard is , indeed , a very beautiful woman . That's about it for this film . Some ambiguity among her masculine admirers adds some comic relief to D . W . Griffith's " The Gibson Goddess " .
Out of Bounds	Buck Jones ( as Buck Roberts ) , Tim McCoy ( as Tim McCall ) , and Raymond Hatton ( as Sandy Hopkins ) marshal their forces as " The Rough Riders " . Their first mission is to help pretty Luana Walters ( as Ruth Masters ) ; the family's " Master's Stage Line " is being robbed by wicked Tris Coffin ( as Steve Taggert ) and his gang . Also , Ms . Masters ' father has been killed by the gang . The quick drawing folks at the Monogram studio took a look at rival Republic's unprecedented success with their " The Three Mesquiteers " series of films and took action , producing a couple of " Threesomes " of their own . From the " Top 10 Western Box Office Star " lists , Monogram employed Mr . Jones , Mr . McCoy , and " Mesquiteer " Raymond Hatton as " The Rough Riders " . Given the western star power , " Arizona Bound " is surprisingly dull .
Rough Going on This Round-Up	Roy Rogers ( as Roy ) and sidekick Raymond Hatton ( as Rusty ) join Teddy Roosevelt's " Rough Riders " . Soon , they get suspended in order to " Round-up " the killer of partner Eddie Acuff ( as Tommy ) along the Mexican-U . S . border ; they discover creepy gold runners in the process . Notice how , even suspended , Mr . Rogers is able to get the Rough Riders to join in his Round-up ! This is not one of the better Roy Rogers westerns . The fighting scenes look like choreographed dances . Rogers sings / yodels " Ridin ' Down the Trail " , one of two relatively ordinary songs ; and , a stand-out moment , overall . Rough Riders ' Round-up ( 1939 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , Raymond Hatton , Lynne Roberts
It Rhymes with Really ? Bad	Handsome hit-man Ben Affleck ( as Larry Gigli ) falls in love with luscious lesbian Jennifer Lopez ( as Ricki ) , after the two are assigned to take care of kidnapped retard Justin Bartha ( as Brian ) . Clearly , Mr . Bartha is in the wrong movie . Will Mr . Affleck's longing looks loosen Ms . Lopez ' steadfast hips ? This is the only movie where you will see Lopez outperform Al Pacino ( as Starkman ) - witness her very convincing monologue on " The Lips " , compared with Mr . Pacino's mind-boggling awful dissertation " The Thumb is Not a Finger " . Martin Brest's " Gigli " seems to be both well-intentioned and ill-conceived . It is also sometimes insulting and offensive . Gigli ( 2003 ) Martin Brest - Ben Affleck , Jennifer Lopez , Justin Bartha
The Scenic Route	A foreword tells the tale : " Thirty years ago - fate changed a fun-loving , reckless westerner into an outlaw - in the flash of a gamblers ( sic ) gun . Misfortune made Harry Tracy a killer - circumstance forced him to death by his own hand - at the climax of the greatest man hunt in history ! " That's about as exciting as it gets . Harry Tracy was a real outlaw , and this film is a heroic glorification of his criminal " life " . If it had been better presented , the Harry Tracy name might have been as well-remembered as peers like Jesse James . Along with the foreword storyline , you have Jack Hoey ( as Harry Tracy ) palling around with cell-mate Jean LaRue ( as Dave Merrill ) . After they break out of jail , Mr . Hoey falls in love with Mr . LaRue's sister Dorris Chadwick ( as Mary Merrill ) . Later on , LaRue finds out his sister was really adopted ; then , he reveals he desires Ms . Chadwick for himself . She obviously still considers it incest , and is repulsed . A better pal , Howard Chandler ( as Billy Weston ) , returns to help Hoey . Directed by Otis B . Thayer , " Tracy the Outlaw " has some nice scenery . Otherwise , it's just plain dull . Tracy the Outlaw ( 1928 ) Otis B . Thayer - Jack Hoey , Dorris Chadwick , Jean LaRue
Norwegian Wood	Lyle Talbot ( as Robert " Bob " Owen ) fights Nazis in Norway , during World War II . Helping him out are native son George N . Neise ( as Erik Falken ) and British wisecracker Charley Rogers ( as Harry Hall ) . Mr . Neise's old acquaintance June Duprez ( as Inga Beckering ) adds femininity and intrigue to the cast . Once engaged to Neise , Ms . Duprez has hooked up with properly accented Victor Varconi ( as Otto von Ritter ) . Mr . Varconi gets the line , " My men have vays of making you talk . " Spencer Gordon Bennet's " They Raid by Night " , subtitled " A Story of the Commandos " , features a very catchy theme song , and is good for a few unexpectedly good laughs .
Kurt Russell , Kid Ranger !	After rounding up some horse thieves , Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) happen upon a wayward Native American Indian boy . It's 14-year-old Kurt Russell ( as Grey Smoke ) made-up to look like an Indian ; he is wearing a dark wig , headband , and a few feathers in his hair . Instead of turning him in , the Rangers , especially Joe , take him under their wings . Joe bathes with the " young Indian buck " ( separate tubs ) . Chad and Joe bring him to Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) , who agrees to make him a Kid Ranger . When a gang of nine cutthroat gunslingers arrive in Laredo , Ranger Russell is ready for action ! This episode portends another interesting theory on the series ' trouble . Perhaps Neville Brand did not work well with his co-stars ; for whatever reasons , he really hadn't fully participated with them in the last five aired episodes . This time Mr . Brand appears to have been inserted briefly , in the opening scenes ; note that " Reese " is only seen with his back to the camera in the opening scenes . This was probably a stand-in for Brand , who must have recorded his close-ups separately . Laredo - Meanwhile Back at the Reservation ( / 66 ) Bernard McEveety - William Smith , Peter Brown , Kurt Russell
Ranger Merry-Go-Round	Reese ( Neville Brand ) and semi-regular Claude Akins ( as Cotton " Buck " Buckmmeister ) stop gringo border bandits from robbing Spanish farmers in the southern city of San Diablo . The hapless farmers are grateful for Reese's particular mastery , and make him " Captain " of their village . While Mr . Akins tends to prisoner Ray Ballard ( as Dandy Davis ) , Reese tries to turn some of the town's farmers into soldiers . But , it's , as Reese states , like trying to make " a silk purse out of a sow's ear . " Meanwhile , Akins and his ward hear of , and search for , a lost treasure . . . Neville Brand was back at work full-time for this episode . However , co-stars Peter Brown , William Smith , and Philip Carey are completely absent . Curiously , Chad ( Brown ) and Joe ( Smith ) are " replaced " by Claude Akins and ( after the opening ) Ray Ballard . Probably , the regular co-stars took a break from this , an episode which utilized them lightly ; and , the script was re-worked . Usually , Akins replaced the absent ( or nearly absent ) Mr . Brand . Or , not . . . Laredo - The Treasure of San Diablo ( / 66 ) William Witney - Neville Brand , Claude Akins , Pedro Gonzales
Caught in a Harem	Bobby Vernon ( as Bobby ) and Gloria Swanson ( as Gloria ) sail to India ( " The land of elephants , and little clothes " ) , where they plan to elope . Upon arrival , Harem girls tempt Mr . Vernon , while a Rajah nabs Ms . Swanson . The Rajah has hundreds of wives , and wants Swanson in the group . Indians are upset , because only " toothless hags " are left for marriage . Vernon tries to rescue Swanson by switching clothes with her ? becoming a temporary " Harem Girl " himself , but his mission fails . So , it's up to canine Teddy , can the dog save Bobby and Gloria from the Indians ? " The Sultan's Wife " or " Caught in a Harem " is notable as the last Keystone Comedy . They didn't go out in style . The Sultan's Wife ( 1917 ) Clarence G . Badger - Bobby Vernon , Gloria Swanson , Joseph Callahan
Lugosi Hits the Wong Note	" A group of Chinese merchants and importers are the target of a European import firm that uses a beautiful Eurasian girl and a mad scientist as the means to put them out of business . A newspaper reporter and her dashing boyfriend learn of the problems the Chinatown businessmen are dealing with and decide to investigate , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " Shadow of Chinatown " is a feature length version of the recently released 15-part serial ; its shortened length is a welcome digestion , considering the lack of quality on display . Super hypnotist Bela Lugosi ( as Victor Poten ) is more stupefying than hypnotic . Though Mr . Lugosi gets top billing , Bruce Bennett stars ( as Martin " Marty " Andrews ) ; and , he is a serviceable serial hero . Joan Barclay and Luana Walters add feminine wiles . The players appear to have blocked their scenes , and know their lines well enough for a quick read through . Mr . Bennett has some good fighting scenes ; for example , the one atop a building , with Charles King . There is a semi-cool car chase , with 1930s automobiles and an old " Stop " / " Go " traffic signal .
Neville Brand Is Bound ! Whipped ! and Broken !	Everyone in Laredo is heading over to the annual fiesta in nearby San Gill . Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) want to join the celebration ; but , Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) assigns them office duty in Laredo . The Rangers try to trick Reese ( Neville Brand ) , returning from last week's assignment , into taking over , with limited success . Of course , the Rangers go anyway . At the fiesta , they try to avoid Parmalee ; and , later , become involved in thwarting an assassination plot . Colorful , silly , and predictable . Chad wears a Devil mask , Joe is the Rabbit , and Reese sometimes plays the Frog . Lonny Chapman guest stars ( as Julius ) . Given the festive tone of the episode , and the lightheartedness of the series , the scene featuring Reese being brutally whipped is startling . His back is covered with bloody , realistic welts , sadistically administered by Theo Marcuse ( as Waldo ) . The apparent severity of the whipping does not match the character's later antics . Laredo - The Heroes of San Gill ( / 65 ) Paul Stanley - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
In Living Color	" A woman who was literally frightened to death narrates the story of how she arrived at her untimely demise . The woman is shown going through a series of circumstances that begin to wear down her psyche and drive her to madness . A lengthy line-up of suspects for the person responsible for her death has the police baffled , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . A film filled with baffling mystery ; it's substandard is almost every respect , but was shot in color . Bela Lugosi appears , occasionally . Scared to Death ( 1947 ) Christy Cabanne - Nat Pendleton , George Zucco , Bela Lugosi
Martin Milner Joins the Rangers	Reese ( Neville Brand ) is put down , and repeatedly falls into some mud , as prissy and proper Martin Milner ( as Clendon MacMillan ) arrives at the Rangers ' Company B , looking for work . Surprisingly , Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) hires Mr . Milner on the spot ; and sends him out on a mission with the reluctant Reese , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Joe ( William Smith ) . The newly formed quartet of Texas Rangers goes out to stop overweight , drunkard Cliff Osmond ( as Running Antelope ) and his tribe of Native American Indians . The boozing Mr . Osmond loots and burns towns , killing whatever gringos haven't managed to escape . Milner's foolish beliefs regarding " Indian rights " clash with the other lawmen ? The portrayal of Native American Indians reaches an unfortunate new low , in only the third episode of the series . Licorice-loving Shelly Morrison ( as Linda Little Trees ) makes her first likable , but ludicrous appearance ; interestingly , this " comic " " squaw " is noted to have participated in the series ' first documented slaughter , by jealously knocking off a comely blonde woman ! Milner's character is treated like a fool , for advocating human rights , and the rule of law ; but , the Indians on-screen certainly deserve what they get ! Milner appears in-between " Route 66 " and " Adam 12 " , sporting a longhorn moustache . Laredo - Yahoo ( / 65 ) David Lowell Rich - Martin Milner , Neville Brand , Peter Brown
Sunrise Sunset	Roy Rogers ( as Roy ) , George " Gabby " Hayes ( as Gabby ) , and " The Sons of the Pioneers " help guardian Helen Parrish ( as Sylvia Clark ) claim and manage the land inherited by her ward , Baby Rodney . Bagley Ranch keeper Joan Woodbury ( as Vera Martin ) and cohort Onslow Stevens ( as Jackson ) want to swindle the ranch out of the infant's little hands . The pervasive bright-as-sunlight moonlight is more distracting than usual , since the incorrect time of day referred to several times in succession . Having a baby around to serenade ups the cuteness level considerably . " Sunrise Serenade " ends as Rogers and Trigger struggle to save Frank M . Thomas ( as Sheldon ) from an approaching water rapid ; but , it isn't enough to lift the film . Sunset Serenade ( 1942 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Helen Parrish
O'Hara of Arabia	Unintentionally funny story with Maureen O'Hara as an Arab princess avenging the death of her father . She sings ! She dances ! She battles the evil " Black Robes " . Ms . O'Hara's possible knowledge of this movie's low worth may have enhanced her ludicrous performance . Vincent Price can always be depended on for an outrageous performance in an absurd film , but the hammy master is no match for O'Hara . Not a complete waste , as O'Hara and her leading man look lovely . It's got some action , and swell color . If everyone was as hammy as the leads , it might have been funnier - with more singing and dancing . Bagdad ( 1949 ) Charles Lamont - Maureen O'Hara , Paul Hubschmid , Vincent Price
A Fish Out of Water	Buster Keaton ( as Elmer ) is an incompetent Hollywood manager assigned to beauty contest winner Anita Page ( as Elvira ) . Robert Montgomery ( as Larry ) is around as romantic rival . Interestingly , the three main players are " stars " in the film ; however , they show little star quality in " Free and Easy " . There are several " cameos " and references to MGM stars of the time ( Garbo , Shearer , Davies , Crawford . . . ) . Mr . Keaton speaks well during early scenes ; and , he is sometimes nicely expressive . However , the film is amateurish and embarrassing . Keaton singing the title " Free and Easy " song is a low point . Keaton's sobriety is doubtful . You may find more entertaining shows at your local Elementary School . Free and Easy ( 1930 ) Edward Sedgwick - Buster Keaton , Anita Page , Robert Montgomery
The Carpetbaggers	Roy Rogers ( as Vance ) is appointed sheriff of a Texas town , following the Civil War . A former Confederate P . O . W . , Mr . Rogers faces wicked carpetbaggers , led by Cy Kendall ( as Ballard ) . Assisting Rogers is his ever present pal George " Gabby " Hayes ( as Gabby ) , who happens to have a fetching niece , Marjorie Reynolds ( as Jeanie ) . Sally Payne is along for the ride , as Belle Starr . Rogers must be the " Robin Hood " of the title , protecting the people from big tax collectors . Rogers and Ms . Payne have a cool brawl ( not with each other ) and the acting from Rogers and team are a notch above the norm . However , Rogers ' role of an ex-Confederate , in a post-Civil War setting , lends itself to some understandable questions about the representation of race - not the worst you'll see , but enough to stand out in a western with little else to notice . Robin Hood of the Pecos ( 1941 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Marjorie Reynolds
Victoria's Secret	Pretty blonde Paris Hilton ( as Victoria English ) runs the sexy South Beach sorority " Gamma Gamma " . In order to win FHM magazine's coveted " Hottest Sorority " contest , Ms . Hilton decides to diversify the wealthy , blonde sorority set by accepting ethnic , ugly , fat , and otherwise non-blonde pledges . Beautiful dark-haired rival Paula Garcés ( as Gloria ) makes trouble for Hilton and orally fixed boyfriend Simon Rex ( as Derek ) . Hilton's dog chows down ! The flesh is fleeting , and Hilton shows little . Fortunately , some of the other women aren't as shy . A good example of the humor is when a toilet reverse backs-up all over the screen . Worst of all , Hilton as " Victoria " has a skeleton in her closet - she was an ugly child . ( Choke ! ) Will this dark secret ruin her chances to win the " Hottest Sorority in the Country " contest ? It's nice to see performers like Mr . Rex and Alexis Thorpe ( as Morgan ) ; but , the material is not very good . So , you may want to park your car in another garage . You'll get more kicks from a " Girls Gone Wild " commercial . Pledge This ! ( 2006 ) William Heins - Paris Hilton , Paula Garcés , Simon Rex
The Baby Isn't Homely !	Donna ( Donna Reed ) is put on the spot when her women's committee selects Alex ( Carl Betz ) to judge a beautiful baby contest . The pediatrician thinks telling mothers their children are " normal , average infants " might force him to " close up shop . " Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) suspects something is amiss when her mother prepares Alex ' favorite dinner , " lamb curry " ; the last time she made it , Donna dented a fender . It's always nice to see ( and hear ) Virginia Christine , who plays the ludicrously implausible role of " Margaret Lang " , a mother ashamed of her " homely " baby ( actually , he looks fine ) . Ms . Christine was the TV ad woman for Folgers Coffee . Jeff contributes an interesting observation , " You sneer at girls and they come running . " And , as dictated by the script , we witness Mr . Betz blowing pipe smoke in Ms . Reed's face . The Baby Contest ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Virginia Christine
Oedipus in Reverse	Charles West leaves his parents ( Herbert Prior and Anita Hendrie ) , his girl ( Mary Pickford ) , and his country inn , to make his way in the big city . Five years later , Mr . West is a rich man . When hard times hit the old folks at home , Ms . Pickford writes West , suggesting a visit . To surprise his parents , West decides to conceal his identity . He puts on a hat , which compliments his already grown beard and moustache . When he returns , his parents don't recognize their son ; ironically , they decide to rob the wealthy young stranger while he sleeps . . . West conceals his identity by putting on a hat ? Perhaps director D . W . Griffith assumed viewers knew the parents ' eyesight was failing ? Father Prior seems in good enough health , to effortlessly lift a supposedly dead body , and carry it outside . If not for the implausibility presented concealment of the son's identity , " The Son's Return " would be an interesting drama . The Son's Return ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - Charles West , Herbert Prior , Anita Hendrie
Steer Clear !	This film reeks of production line planning . It appears like the filmmakers looked at recent hit movies , and threw spaghetti on the screen - Jimmy Stewart ! June Allyson ! Anthony Mann ! Baseball ! War ! Baby ! Airplane ! - ROLL ' EM ! - The film does address the age of the Stewart / Allyson performers ; though , I'm certain we are still supposed to think they are much younger . There are messages in " Strategic Air Command " I found curiously shocking and offensive , but I'll stick with one truly wretched element : The happily married couple is challenged when Mr . Stewart's character makes an important decision without consulting his wife . In the film's most dramatic scene , she calls him on it . It ends completely unresolved - Allyson is crying her heart out on their bed , and Stewart walks out on her . NO discussion ; he simply says he is correct , and walks out on his devastated wife . For all he knows , she could slit her wrists . Later , Allyson apologizes for questioning her husband's decision . Unbelievable ! Stick with Stewart-Allyson in " The Stratton Story " ( 1949 ) . Strategic Air Command ( / 55 ) Anthony Mann - James Stewart , June Allyson , Frank Lovejoy
Chicken Little Clucks Again	Dana Andrews , Marilee Earle , and Mel Tormé are the main attractions . I don't know how anyone can play scenes with the great Mr . Tormé . I would crack up ! Mr . Andrews , Ms . Earle , and the others are incredibly awful in this film . I don't have any idea what's going on with Andrews ' physical condition ; but , he seems healthier as the film goes on . As a " cold war drama , " this movie fails . The plot and performances are ludicrous . BUT , as an unintended comedy , the movie succeeds . I found it moderately funny . I'm not sure what kind of political message this film is trying to make - but , it adds to the hilarity . I can't rate it highly , because I'm sure the filmmakers ' intentions were quite different than my reception . The Fearmakers ( 1958 ) Jacques Tourneur - Dana Andrews , Marilee Earle , Mel Tormé
Eight Legs to Hold You	Policewoman Carole Mathews goes " undercover " to join Marie Windsor , Beverly Garland , and Jil Jarmyn in prison . The " Gang of Four " escape , and head for the local swamp , to look for some stashed diamonds . Who would hide their booty in a swamp ? They take turns touching tied-up hostage Mike Connors . His girlfriend gets eaten by the alligator . Let's not beat around the bush . Stripped to its basics , " Swamp Women " was made for 1950s viewers to watch four naughty young women escape from prison , get drunk , cut off the legs of their pants , and wrestle in the swamp . Directed by Roger Corman . In color . Swamp Women ( 1955 ) Roger Corman - Marie Windsor , Carole Mathews , Beverly Garland
The Dirty Dozin '	This English re-titled " A Reason to Live , A Reason to Die " is a thoroughly unconvincing United States Civil War swipe of " The Dirty Dozen " , done in the Clint Eastwood " spaghetti western " style . James Coburn ( as Pembroke ) leads a less than star-studded group of seven desperadoes . ( Still pre-Kojak ) Telly Savalas , who appeared as one of the original " Dozen " , is Mr . Coburn's major foil . Mr . Savalas ( as Ward ) has interesting taste in sculpture art . The locations are nice , but don't seem very American . The film's relatively high level of explosions , shootings , and stabbings must have been the box office draw , back in the early 1970s . Today , you only need to play a video game . Una ragione per vivere e una per morire ( 1972 ) Tonino Valerii - James Coburn , Telly Savalas , Bud Spencer
Built in Italy	" It's a battle between mortals and gods as the right to claim the Goddess of Love as their own brings the Roman gods of myth to life in this classic tale . Vulcan , the God of Fire , wishes to have the beautiful Venus as his bride and will battle strange creatures and fellow gods alike , in his quest to win her . Amazing feats of strength and fantastic fights abound in this tale of adventure and true love , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " Vulcan , Son of Jupiter " is a dubbed in English , Italian-made feature . Bouncy , bountiful Bella Cortez and alluring Annie Gorassini are the fleshy film's G-rated headlights , er ? highlights . Vulcan , Son of Jupiter ( 1961 ) Emimmo Salvi - Richard Lloyd , Bella Cortez , Annie Gorassini
Steer Clear	Chesty gringo Telly Savalas ( as Frank Cooper ) is a US-Mexico " Border Cop " . He serves as a father figure to young immigrant Danny De La Paz ( as Benny Romero ) , who wants Mr . Savalas to be best man at his impending wedding . Savalas is tough , but boss Eddie Albert ( as Commander Moffat ) may be tougher . Tough is what you need to stop smuggler Michael V . Gazzo ( as Chico Suarez ) . Alliances may be in flux . If you find the possibility of hearing " Kojak " and " Oliver Douglas " uttering expletives to be repulsive , you ought to steer clear of " The Border " . If not , you may not have the stomach for the " realistic " cow slaughtering scene . Although it doesn't end up being worth much , Mr . De La Paz and Cecilia Camacho ( as Leina ) steal the show . The Border ( 1979 ) Tony Richardson - Telly Savalas , Danny De La Paz , Eddie Albert
A Mule in Sintown	Roy Rogers and company try to bring " Sintown " back to life - it's a ghost town which may go boom if silver mining is successful . Andy Devine ( as " Cookie " ) slapsticks around . Jane Frazee ( as Carol ) loses a piece of her bitches to Mr . Rogers ' sharp leer . Foy Willing and the Riders of the Purple Sage stand-in ( or , is that sing-in ? ) for the A . W . O . L . Bob Nolan and the Sons of the Pioneers . James Finlayson ( from the Laurel and Hardy films ) adds to the " slapstick " look of " Grand Canyon Trail " . A loose floor board delivers the winning comedy performance . Mr . Devine's mule kicks its heels . There are energetic human performances , too - but , the material isn't Grand . Grand Canyon Trail ( 1948 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Jane Frazee , Andy Devine
A Bull Session with the Big Andy	Roy Rogers is a Sheriff who must catch airplane saboteurs . Mr . Rogers is also a singling cowboy . Tito Guizar is Bullfighter Nicci Lopez . Mr . Guizar is also a singing cowboy . As " The Gay Ranchero " of the title , Guizar seems to have more to do than Rogers . Andy Devine ( as " Cookie " ) works at the Manzanita Springs Airline being sabotaged , and helps out singling cowboys out - and , gets helped out during the bull session . Bob Nolan and the Sons of the Pioneers add songs and laughs . This film seems to be an attempt to cross-over the audiences of American singing cowboy star Roy Rogers and Mexican singing cowboy star Tito Guizar . Or , it may be an attempt to introduce the Mexican singing cowboy star to Rogers ' U . S . audience . The resulting film is like two partial movies , either of which are very good . The cowboy stars never really operate / act as a " team " ; they have little rapport , and few opportunities to show any . The Gay Ranchero ( 1948 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Tito Guizar , Andy Devine
Smashing the Saboteurs	Roy Rogers ( as Roy ) , Smiley Burnette ( as Frog ) , and the " Sons of the Pioneers " go undercover to help Texas Governor Russell Hicks stop World War II Axis sympathizers from blowing up U . S . warehouses . Not a war story , but a Roy Rogers western : this one a " Variety Show " of stunts , songs , and Smiley bits ? plus , a sign proclaiming : " Freedom of Speech Doesn't Mean Careless Talk " . " King of the Cowboys " songs include : " I'm an Old Cow Hand " , " The Gay Ranchero " , " Prairie Moon " , and others . Stunts include setting up a giant mirror on a road to simulate a head-on car crash ; and , following another car crash , Rogers being tied up and left in a warehouse rigged to blow . The story is inconsequential . Following the stunted end , Rogers is introduced as " King of the Cowboys " and sings " Ride Ranger Ride " . Formulaic to the hilt ! King of the Cowboys ( 1943 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , Smiley Burnette , Peggy Moran
The Lord Blinks	God sends frontier parson and gunslinger William S . Hart ( as Jim Houston ) , his pretty wife Dorothy Dalton ( as Mary ) , and their cute little daughter Thelma Salter ( as Alice ) to the western town of " Barren Gulch " . Of course , Mr . Hart finds the town sinfully in need of his services . He needn't have looked any further than his own back yard , however ; soon , Ms . Dalton decides to run off with the local sleaze , Robert McKim ( as " Doc " Hardy ) after he is nice to her in the grocery store . The Lord must have blinked when Mr . McKim winked . Thomas H . Ince's " The Disciple " is inexplicable . Hart is an odd man of God , threatening a flock at gunpoint , " Are you going ' to force me to preach to cripples ? " Dalton's abandonment of her husband and young daughter is not very plausible , assuming Hart fathered the impossibly blonde curled girl . Dalton performs well , considering the weak material ; and , perversely , her scenes with McKim look good . Although unseen , " God " is a character who becomes more and more involved in the plot , which makes it more silly than not .
Mission : Intolerable	It's difficult to determine exactly what is going on in the minds of the people who made this movie . Anyway , it starts out as a crime drama ; a murder is committed , apparently witnessed by a woman who gets away . Soon , there is an avalanche , causing massive destruction that completed disappears in a couple of seconds . I took the avalanche as a inside joke ; you see , this film goes nowhere but downhill . Or , it might be meant to foreshadow the end . Victor Mature ( he's Matt ) and Vincent Price ( he's Paul ) compete to see who gets the girl - - when they're not competing to see who gives the worst performance . Piper Laurie is the blonde witness . There are Indians involved . When they all go after each other at the end , the background is entertaining to watch ( snowy Montana mountains ) . Dangerous Mission ( 1954 ) Louis King - Victor Mature , Vincent Price , Piper Laurie
There's a Starman Wading in the Sky	" A giant alien brain is leading its forces across the far reaches of space with the intent to conquer the universe . Arriving at Earth , the monstrous brain unleashes a hoard of monsters upon the planet to spread disease and destruction . The Earth's only hope of survival rests with Starman , the hero from another world , who must use all of his awesome powers to defeat the monsters and stop the alien brain , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . The last three Ken Utsui ( as Sûpâ Jaiantsu , or Super Giant ) movies , edited together for the USA ; it's understandably not very fresh , but " Evil Brain from Outer Space " features a relatively high dose of Starman action , villains , and gimmicks . After the stock footage opening all the Starman movies , a chase scene involving Balazar's brain being carried in a suitcase provides a relatively exciting opening . Balazar and his minions are better villains than not . Still , it's material reproduced down from mediocre . Evil Brain from Outer Space ( 1964 ) Teruo Ishii - Ken Utsui , Junko Ikeuchi , Minoru Takada
The Butcher of Los Angeles	Lon Chaney Jr . is completely wasted as Charles " The Butcher " Benton . Chaney as " The Butcher " , a man convicted for bank robbery and murder , is executed ; then , he is accidentally revived , by a doctor seeking a cure for cancer . So , the mute and murderous Mr . Chaney goes on a lumbering rampage , to Los Angeles , knocking off ( among others ) the gang members who betrayed him . The dull , unimaginative story is augmented by a even duller " Dragnet " - style descriptive narration . The location footage is a relative strength . Otherwise , this one is criminal . Indestructible Man ( 1956 ) Jack Pollexfen - Lon Chaney Jr . , Max Showalter , Marian Carr
Watch with Discretion	Gloria Swanson ( as Gerry Trent ) breaks it off with caddish Monroe Owsley ( as Jim Woodward ) in order to take up with novelist Ben Lyon ( as Tony Blake ) . Later , Ms . Swanson's younger sister Barbara Kent ( as Joan Trent ) arrives - with the lover Swanson rejected ! Swanson would rather little sister stick with boyish Arthur Lake ( as Buster Collins ) ; later , Mr . Lake will play Blondie's Dagwood Bumbstead . Star Swanson sings a couple of songs , and has an obligatory undressing / bathing scene . Considering the strong personnel involved , this is a remarkably unsatisfactory film , even for an early " talkie " . The " modern sophisticated comic " approach falls very flat ( if that's what is intended ) . There is some suggestion of more " Adult " encounters than are present in the players ' dialog - for example , Swanson breaks up with boyfriend Owsley and hands him his golf clubs ; so , what are is golf clubs doing at her place ? And , a later rain scene suggests Swanson had bedded down with the just-proposed Lyon . Swanson's portrayal is remarkably unsteady , at times , for a very accomplished actress who had already successfully transitioned from silent to sound . The material offered in " Indiscreet " couldn't have done much to advance anyone's career ; unfortunately , Swanson is particularly slighted , being the star . Indiscreet ( 1931 ) Leo McCarey - Gloria Swanson , Ben Lyon , Arthur Lake
Father Christopher Lee	" A scientist discovers signals from space that appear to carry information concerning a series of seemingly unrelated natural disasters , occurring across the globe . Hoping to discover the source of these signals and who's behind them , the scientist and his wife set out on a trek to locate the intended recipient of the signals . What the couple eventually discovers is a small remote convent with occupants who are not really who they appear to be , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Kirk Scott ( as Andrew Boran ) is the scientist who intercepts alien messages on his computer . He suspects a series of " Large Earth Disruptions " may be connected to the weird space static . Mr . Scott and pretty blonde wife Sue Lyon ( as Sylvia Boran ) investigate the mysterious signals from outer space . They discover priestly , but creepy Christopher Lee ( as " Father Pergado " ) , and other silliness . Given that , " End of the World " is remarkably dull . End of the World ( 1977 ) John Hayes - Kirk Scott , Sue Lyon , Christopher Lee
Kicks Up a Little Dust	Mysterious cowboy Bill Patton ( as Bob Norton ) arrives , " in the land of the West - on the banks of the Rio Grande , " at the " Bar-V " ranch . Ostensibly seeking employment , Mr . Patton is revealed , as the plot unravels , an undercover Texas Ranger . Patton wants to get a job at the " Bar-V " , and round-up evidence against newly appointed foreman , and all-around snake-in-the-grass , Jack House ( as " Buck " Bailey ) . Also working undercover , Mr . House is part of a scheme to steal cattle from square-shooting owner William Bertram ( as Jack Barton ) . After Patton saves daughters in distress Alma and Adrian Rayford ( as Bonita and Flora Barton ) , Mr . Bertram hires him to help around the ranch . House plots to kill , while Patton and Ms . Alma fall in love ? A fairly nondescript western . Notably , the " real " Rayford sisters play the " fictional " Barton sisters - and co-star Bertram also directed . There are a lot of good location long-shots . The scenes introducing the sisters , at the beach and by a busy 1924 highway , are too brief . A little more than halfway in , the film is badly damaged , but it recovers quickly , and plays well until The End . Smoking Trails ( 1924 ) William Bertram - Bill Patton , Alma Rayford , Jack House
A Lesser Griffith	A confusing early film , directed by D . W . Griffith . Blanche Sweet and Edwin August are deliriously happy . He's a fisherman , and she's his " fishermaiden " . Ms . Sweet enjoys hanging around the seashore ; where , one day , she stumbles upon nasty Alfred Paget and a gang of smugglers . The smugglers nab and gag Sweet ; then , they take her on their ship . Looking for his missing girl , Mr . August witnesses the kidnapping from the shore , and runs fro help ? While the film delivers its promised thrills , the characters ' actions and motivation are often difficult to understand . There are also some strange bits of business ; for example , why isn't Sweet locked in the boat room , and for what purpose does she momentarily pick up a gun ? So , " The Lesser Evil " is what ? The Lesser Evil ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Blanche Sweet , Edwin August , Alfred Paget
A Communist Plot	Russian Barton MacLane ( as Captain Scarface ) is a Communist spy who plans to destroy the Panama Canal . Mr . MacLane enlists the help of German scientist Rudolph Anders ( as Yeager ) by threatening the life of his daughter , Virginia Grey ( as Ilse Yeager ) . Meanwhile , American Leif Erickson ( as Sam Wilton ) has switched identities with a sailing associate of MacLane , after his Comrade ( John Mylong ) finds himself on the receiving end of a lead shower . Mr . Erickson is looking for quick passage to America , for reasons of his own . They are all aboard " Captain Scarface " MacLane's ship , the " Banos " , according the dastardly captain , " ? to be blown to eternity together ! " Not a bad story ; but , it takes far too long to make sense . Howard Wendell and Isabel Randolph are most enjoyable , as passengers Fred and Kate Dilts ; among other things , they help explain the opening explosion . " Captain Scarface " was , later , " General Peterson " on " I Dream of Jeannie " .
The Revenge of the Son of the Phantom	Western miner Tim McCoy ( as Slim Braddock ) is cheated out of his claim by Karl Hackett ( as Williams ) , but he can't prove anything . So , he becomes " The Phantom " bandit , and robs stages carrying Hackett booty . During a confrontation , Mr . McCoy is wounded ; he dies in the care of son Eddie Buzard ( as young Tim Braddock ) . Mr . Buzard quickly grows into McCoy ( as old Tim Braddock ) , which is the main Braddock role . After pretty Joan Woodbury ( as Helen Brennan ) is introduced , the characters ' ages are difficult to discern . McCoy is an odd " Phantom " ; he makes no effort to hide his identity , and is plainly visible as " Slim Braddock " . He also terrorizes citizens with kindness , and makes minor repairs on the coaches he robs . The most entertaining part of " Bulldog Courage " occurs when Paul Fix ( as Bailey ) arrives to blow-up a mine ; he really uses his " noodle . " After Mr . Fix is detained , McCoy does a wild impersonation of " Bailey " ; with his obvious ability to memorize dialogue , and capture a character , " Braddock " should have been an actor instead of a minor .
Anyone for Tennis ?	Hunky Los Angeles college tennis player Scott Strader ( as " The Kid " ) likes to party more than practice , so straight-laced pal Perry Lang ( as Jeff Andrews ) is worried about their championship possibilities . When coach Richard Roundtree ( as Chip Williams ) takes the team to Las Vegas , the nightlife threatens to ruin the tennis team's chance to bring home L . A . College's first trophy ever ? Steve Carver's " Jocks " are an undeniably likable group , but their story is filled with dead humor . Don't expect any more than ONE good topless " girls gone wild " moment . Jocks ( 1987 ) Steve Carver - Scott Strader , Perry Lang , Richard Roundtree
Spurn of the Screw	" A pianist dumps his singer girlfriend , and becomes engaged to a young socialite from an affluent island community , which infuriates the singer . A confrontation between the pianist and the singer , at the top of a lighthouse , results in her falling to her death , to the rocks below . The pianist tries to keep the death quiet while proceeding with the wedding plans , but funds it impossible when the deceased singer begins to haunt him , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " Go away , you're dead ! " cries jazz pianist Richard Carlson ( as Tom Stewart ) ; but , " Tormented " ghost singer Juli Reding ( as Vi Mason ) just won't go away . Mr . Carlson wants to marry wealthy Lugene Sanders ( as Meg Hubbard ) , defying the statuesque ex-girlfriend . This is a sometimes intriguing , and occasionally okay , ghost story . Sweet little sister Susan Gordon ( as Sandy Hubbard ) , creepy beatnik Joe Turkel ( as Nick ) , and stocky blind seer Lillian Adams ( as Mrs . Ellis ) are an oddly appealing supporting cast . Ms . Gordon is , coincidently , director Bert I . Gordon's daughter ; and , she ain't half bad . The story is the main problem , as you'll see . There are several obvious ways it could be improved upon . Tormented ( 1960 ) Bert I . Gordon - Richard Carlson , Juli Reding , Susan Gordon
The Big Chill	Pat O'Brien portrays Knute Rockne , the All-American Notre Dame football coach . No doubt , this film will be considerably more appealing to those interested in some aspect of " Knute Rockne All-American Notre Dame Football " - probably , it's most interesting to serious followers of football and / or Notre Dame football . You will see some good documentary-style film footage . Otherwise , it's difficult to recommend this as a FILM . It's not much more than an historical document . You'll " know " the end is near when Gale Page gets a chill - and , don't blink or you'll miss Ronald Reagan doing , of all things , " Camille " ! Knute Rockne - All-American ( 1940 ) Lloyd Bacon - Pat O'Brien , Gale Page , Ronald Reagan
Arrivederci Lana	On assignment in scenic Italy , beautiful lip-synching Lana Turner ( as Fredda Barlo ) meets older singer and prince Ezio Pinza ( as Mr . Imperium ) . The two fall in love , while enjoying the pretty Italian countryside . Unhappily , Mr . Pinza is called away to his Kingly father's death bed , leaving Lana in the lurch . Twelve years later , Ms . Turner is a Los Angeles actress , about to make a motion picture about falling in love with a King . Turner is being romanced by co-star Barry Sullivan , who wants to marry her - then , King Pinza re-enters her life ? " Mr . Imperium " provides a tired storyline for sex symbol Turner and debuting bass vocalist Pinza , who appeared for several decades with the New York Metropolitan Opera . Pinza likely earned his MGM feature film career after appearing in the hugely successful stage production of " South Pacific " ( 1949 ) . The cast album , and Pinza's golden " Some Enchanted Evening " single , sold millions . Supporting casters Marjorie Main , Cedric Hardwicke , and Debbie Reynolds give the film a even greater sense of wasted resources . Mr . Imperium ( 1951 ) Don Hartman - Lana Turner , Ezio Pinza , Barry Sullivan
This Bud's for You	In New Zealand , Cliff Robertson ( as Judd Pierson ) is an semi-unemployed daredevil race-car driver . Mr . Robertson advertises Budweiser beer on his race-car . His traveling companion is mechanic Leif Garrett ( as Casey Lee ) . Mr . Garrett drinks Budweiser beer when he goes out to pick up women . While Robertson and Garrett are trying to make ends meet , Doctor Lisa Harrow ( as Christine Ruben ) learns a deadly virus has been discovered by some suspicious characters she works with at a laboratory . Ms . Harrow hires Robertson as her driver then , she steals the virus . Robertson , Garrett , and Harrow take off with the virus , in Robertson's " Helldrivers Auto Circus " car . Bad guys like Shane Briant ( as Paul Thoreau ) will do almost anything to get the virus back ? Interestingly , the virus stolen by Harrow destroys the body's immune system , like AIDS . It was discovered accidentally , and Harrow seems correct in her assumption about how her government would use the virus ; she doesn't trust New Zealand's military . Why she decides to , instead , deliver the virus to the United States CIA has even co-star Robertson baffled ! Despite some warming up , there isn't much characterization . The ending gives the film a lift .
Vampire Cradle Robbing	" A small European village is the site of a series of horrible murders , thought to be the result of some vicious animal attacks . When the local doctor begins to look into the deaths , he discovers the victims were really attacked by some type of vampire-like creature . The doctor is also startled to find the he may be responsible for the deaths , due to a condition he acquired when his mother was attacked by a creature while pregnant with him , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . No need to wonder about the vampire's identity ; it's given away during the first attack . Although the film goes to dullsville with the idea , it is intriguing to think about a plot involving the offspring of a pregnant female vampire victim . Instead of interesting , " Condemned to Live " bores . As does a " love triangle " involving older doctor Ralph Morgan ( as Paul Kristan ) , fresh-faced fiancée Maxine Doyle ( as Marguerite ) , and more age appropriate young Russell Gleason ( as David ) . Ms . Doyle seems unrehearsed . Condemned to Live ( 1935 ) Frank Strayer - Ralph Morgan , Pedro de Cordoba , Russell Gleason
Digging Up an Old Plot	Leader Leo Gorcey ( as Slip ) and " The Bowery Boys " graduate from extermination school , and get off on a ghost-busting assignment . Actually , Huntz Hall ( as Sach ) is the school " dunce " , and doesn't really graduate ; but , he goes along anyway . Eventually , Mr . Hall is strapped down on an operating table , where mad doctor Douglass Dumbrille ( as Coslow ) intends to cut out his brain - and implant it in a gorilla ! The " old dark house " plot was dug up fairly often by Gorcey's groups ( earliest in 1940's " Boys of the City " ) , with surprisingly little success . This " Spook Busters " is neither spooky nor funny . In a desperate attempt to induce chuckles , the climax is done in slow-motion . Gabriel Dell and supporting team players Bobby Jordan ( as Bobby ) , William " Billy " Benedict ( as Whitey ) , and David Gorcey ( as Chuck ) valiantly try to help . Spook Busters ( / 46 ) William Beaudine - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Douglass Dumbrille
No Man Is an Island	During World War II , in an ice storm , Captain John Wayne ( as Dooley ) and his small crew crash land their airplane over unpopulated , freezing North America . Can friends and colleagues like Walter Abel ( as Fuller ) , Lloyd Nolan ( as Stutz ) , James Arness ( as McMullen ) , and Andy Devine ( as Willie Moon ) locate the downed crew before they succumb to the cold winter's wrath ? " Island in the Sky " is a survival story which spends far too much of its time concentrating on the various rescuers , and not enough time on the struggling crew . Moreover , the time spent on the downed crew isn't satisfying . Although the temperature is said to be forty or seventy degrees below zero ( at Fahrenheit , no less ) , the crash survivors seldom look really cold or uncomfortable . At times , it's painfully obvious they are " acting cold " while a wind machine blows " snow " at the camera . Mr . Wayne performs some William A . Wellman-directed scenes very well , however ; especially during a missed rescue attempt . Mike Connors , Darryl Hickman , Fess Parker , and Alfalfa Switzer lend some occasional support . Also look for Mr . Devine in a poolside bathing suit , with what must be Wellman's children , Michael and Tim .
Turning Japanese	Following the World War II Japanese attack on U . S . forces at Pearl Harbor , " The Eastside Kids " : Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs ) , Bobby Jordan ( as Danny Connors ) , Huntz Hall ( as Glimpy ) , David Gorcey ( as Peewee ) , Ernest Morrison ( as Scruno ) , and Bobby Stone ( as Skinny ) want to serve their country . But , both the U . S . Army and Navy reject them as too young . Still wanting to " knock off about a million Japs " , the " boys " attack an Asian clerk , who turns out to be Chinese . The unfortunate incident does , however , lead the gang to help uncover some really nasty Japanese and German people . If " too young " is defined as " under twenty-one " , only Mr . Jordan and Mr . Stone would be rejected for military service . But , it's possible recruiters were turned off by the office manners displayed by Mr . Gorcey and Mr . Hall . " Let's Get Tough ! " was made during what the script accurately describes as " open season on Japs " - for this and other reasons , it hasn't aged well . It's a wasted effort , but the regulars performs ably , with Tom Brown moving the storyline along , as Jordan's spy brother . Let's Get Tough ! ( / 42 ) Wallace Fox - Leo Gorcey , Bobby Jordan , Tom Brown
The Importance of Being Ernest Morrison	The fourteen " Dead End " - related film introduces " The East Side Kids " as a series banner . Herein , Bobby Jordan replaces Harris Berger ( as Danny Dolan ) , from the previous " East Side Kids " movie . Dave O'Brien ( as " Knuckles " Dolan ) continues as Mr . Jordan's reformed older brother . Fellow " Dead End " kid Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs McGinnis ) joins " Danny's Gang " ( after three films , Mr . Gorcey will become the undisputed leader ) . The returning junior gangsters are : Hally Chester ( as Buster ) , Frankie Burke ( as Skinny ) , Donald Haines ( as Peewee ) , and David Gorcey ( as Pete ) . This film most notably introduces former " Our Gang " member Ernest " Sunshine Sammy " Morrison ( as Scruno ) , a new member of the Bowery " kids " . Unfortunately , Mr . Morrison is included as insulting , race-based comic relief ; and , the story doesn't take advantage of Joseph H . Lewis ' relatively fine direction ( or some good locations ) . Fortunately , Morrison would be allowed to bring some integrity to the " Scruno " character ; in later films ( like " Bowery Blitzkrieg " ) he plays a more dignified humorous role . The story begins with Mr . O'Brien and well-to-do Eugene Francis ( as Algy Wilkes ) expressing concern about " Danny's Gang " , and their propensity for trouble . Their fears prove to be well-founded , as Jordan and the " Boys of the City " decide to get relief from hot New York City streets by opening up a fire hydrant . The incident lands the lads in juvenile court - but , the judge allows them cool their heels by spending some time in the country . They wind up in a spooky old mansion , with scene-stealing Minerva Urecal ( as Agnes ) . Boys of the City ( / 40 ) Joseph H . Lewis - Bobby Jordan , Leo Gorcey , Ernest Morrison
Losing It	For her second talking film appearance , Paramount presented Clara Bow ( as Pat Delaney ) in the audience pleasing " circus " genre , with a " Wings " co-star , Richard Arlen ( as Larry Lee ) . Although the formula seemed like a blockbuster in the making , the film was disappointing . Bow is cast in an inappropriate , and dull , " change of pace " role . She is unconvincing as the demure girl who becomes a " high wire " circus star . At one point , we are expected to believe Bow's pleasingly plump figure passes for Mr . Arlen , in a clown costume , on the high wire ! Arlen is also unconvincing , playing the tending to be tipsy alcoholic " King of the High Wire " . Kay Francis ( as Zara Flynn ) rounds out the expected " love triangle " . Bow's " stand around and wait " attempt to pry Arlen's interests from Ms . Francis ' arms is uncharacteristic . On the plus side , the cast and crew put some obvious effort into a sound production . The " Dangerous Curves " referred to in the title are plainly stated as Arlen's trials and tribulations with job , alcohol , and women . So , the film's content may have been altered to focus on Arlen , then a lesser box office star than Bow . Still , it was a Bow film , and audiences undoubtedly bought tickets to see Clara Bow's " Dangerous Curves " . And , as a Bow starring vehicle , " Dangerous Curves " was a modest success . For the year 1928-29 , Clara Bow was the US # 1 " Box Office Star " , according to the industry standard list compiled by Quigley Publications . After " Dangerous Curves " , box office receipts declined sharply . Suddenly , Clara Bow's reign was over . Dangerous Curves ( / 29 ) Lothar Mendes - Clara Bow , Richard Arlen , Kay Francis
Ladies They Talk About	Chic beauty Faye Emerson ( as Dorothy Drew aka " Dot " Burton ) supplants hard times as an actress by joining a group of bank robbers . Unfortunately , Ms . Emerson's carefully planned plot to rob the " Central Trust and Savings Bank " of $40 , 000 goes awry , when her getaway car driver , a young Jackie Gleason ( as Wilson ) , parks in the red . Big mistake . Mr . Gleason draws the attention of a passing policeman , and Emerson is left holding the bag . Love interest Frank Wilcox ( as Kenneth Phillips ) tries to keep Emerson out of women's prison . Fortunately , he is unsuccessful , and Emerson serves a intermittently amusing sentence , with Julie Bishop ( as Myrtle Reed ) , and other beautifully coiffed women behind bars . Lady Gangster ( 1942 ) Robert Florey - Faye Emerson , Frank Wilcox , Jackie Gleason
Mindless Experimentation	" An insane scientist has been experimenting with the transfer of souls between human beings . The crazed doctor has conducted his nefarious deeds upon even his own family members , including the exchange of his own soul into his brother's body . With his soul now inhabiting a new body , the madman believes he can continue his experiments uninterrupted , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . The title " House of the Living Dead " may be more an attempt to cash in on prior successful motion pictures than a reflection of what goes on in this movie . The story might have been above average , with the cast and crew involved ; but , the execution is severely flawed . The lugubriously languid production picks up ( slightly ) in the last quarter . Leading man Mark Burns ( as Michael and Breck ) tries awfully hard ; he maintains an long screaming scene remarkably well . Shirley Anne Field is a welcome attraction . But , the movie doesn't work .
One Remake Too Many	One Body Too Many ( 1944 ) Frank McDonald - Jack Haley , Jean Parker , Bela Lugosi " A timid insurance salesman decides to place a call upon an eccentric recluse at his mansion only to find that he has just passed away . What he also finds is a home full of relatives who are , according to the will , all bound to remain in the mansion until the authorities arrive to claim the body . Seeing that the man's niece may be in harm's way , the salesman decides to remain at the mansion to protect her from harm while they discover who killed their uncle , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . A thinly disguised re-make of the relatively recent re-make of silent spoof " The Cat and the Canary " . Possibly , the very successful Bob Hope version of 1939 had been removed from circulation ; and , movie producers felt the story had more traction . Otherwise , it's difficult to explain this inferior treatment . Star Jack Haley ( as Albert Tuttle ) is curiously ill-suited in the leading role . Still , it's enjoyable to see Mr . Haley without his " Tin Man " silver . And , leading lady Jean Parker ( as Carol Dunlap ) is an attractive old dark house inhabitant . The most entertaining of the cast are spooky servants Bela Lugosi ( as Murkil ) and Blanche Yurka ( as Matthews ) . Dependable Lucien Littlefield ( as Kenneth Hopkins ) was also in the 1927 version . Writers Winston Miller and Maxwell Shane do add some witty new lines and situations to the formula ; but , the resulting product compares very unfavorably with earlier versions .
Cannibals Cook Brunettes	Jane Russell proved to be a delightful musical-comedy performer in the similarly titled " Gentlemen Prefer Blondes " ? but , sadly , this film squanders those skills . There is a budget , and nice Paris photography , but the film just doesn't work . Ms . Russell seems to be playing Marilyn Monroe . That leaves nobody to adequately play Jane Russell . Some of the other players are WAY out of their element . There are several embarrassing scenes ; most of all , be warned : there is a musical number where boneheaded African cannibals " cook " the brunettes in a pot , after Alan Young sings in a gorilla suit . This is an interesting , at times embarrassing , waste of resources . Gentlemen Marry Brunettes ( 1955 ) Richard Sale - Jane Russell , Jeanne Crain , Alan Young
Smooth Thievery becomes Illogical	Jack Hogan is " The Cat Burglar " who steals the briefcase sexy blonde June Kenney ( as Nan ) is holding for her secretive suitor John Baer ( as Alan ) . He is really out for her jewels , but picks up the briefcase as an afterthought . Unbeknownst , he has acquired a notebook filled with top secret spy formula doodling - the stuff men KILL , and DIE , for ! This film begins with fluid direction from William Witney , mirrored cat-like burgling by Mr . Hogan , and cool soundtrack music from Buddy Bregman . As the plot develops , the film unravels . The soundtrack becomes annoyingly repetitive . The characters get lost in a wildly illogical story ; possibly the most incredible element is the bonding ( love ? ) of the characters played by Mr . Hogan and Ms . Kenney . The players continue to try , however ; and , the warehouse climax is nicely shot . The Cat Burglar ( 1961 ) William Witney - Jack Hogan , June Kenney , John Baer
Ronald Reagan's Led Zeppelin	After spies and saboteurs wreck havoc across the United States , Federal agent Ronald Reagan ( as Brass Bancroft ) and comic sidekick Eddie Foy Jr . ( as Gabby Watters ) go undercover to investigate . Secret Service head John Litel ( as Saxby ) gives Mr . Reagan the identity of dead spy " Steve Swenko " . Reagan seeks James Stephenson ( as Joe Garvey ) , who is being investigated for " Un-American Activities " . Reagan has to deal with detectives pulling off his shirt to strip search him . Then , he must handle beautiful blonde Lya Lys ( as Hilda Riker ) ; the wife of the man he is supposed to be impersonating orders Reagan , " Talk fast and give the right answer ! " Eventually , the plot leads Reagan to board " The U . S . Dirigible ' Mason ' " - apparently , so that filmmakers can edit in some exciting footage of a Hindenburg-type airship . Reagan , now undercover as seaman " Steve Coe " , is ordered to destroy the airship " Mason " because it carries a new U . S . Defense weapon called the " Inertia Projector " . This weapon , according to the script , " makes the United States invincible in war . " Who , and what , will survive " Murder in the Air " ? This is a patchwork movie for the future President . Murder in the Air ( 1940 ) Lewis Seiler - Ronald Reagan , Eddie Foy Jr . , John Litel
A Woman's Story Is Executed	Willful , independent-minded Katharine Hepburn ( as Pamela Thistlwaite ) grows up in Victorian England , alongside her pretty sister Elizabeth Allan ( as Flora Thistlewaite ) . When stern father Donald Crisp ( as Byron Thistlewaite ) presents his young lasses to polite society , they quickly pair up and get pregnant . Ms . Hepburn makes it with young Van Heflin ( as Gerald Waring ) , while Ms . Allan fetches dashing David Manners ( as Alan Freeland ) . Then , tragedy strikes their lives ? Most of the original cast is disposed with ; in a storyline that seems , at times , to be presented " in code " . Still , it's possible to discern what's going on , if you're paying attention . Basically , Hepburn is raising her sister's child as her own , due to Victorian-era sensibilities . Over the years , Hepburn grows into a successful feminist writer . Important cast members joining the " soap opera " are Herbert Marshall ( as Thomas Lane ) and Doris Dudley ( as Flora " Floss " Junior ) . Hepburn's " dark secret " rears its ugly head , after a couple of decades . It is most astonishing to see Ms . Dudley , playing Hepburn's daughter , look more like her mother , when they share the screen . How is it that nobody noticed ? The production looks first class , at least . And , most of the acting is valiant ; particularly effective is Mr . Heflin , in his film debut . But , the good story idea in " A Woman Rebels " is so poorly executed , it's a travesty . A Woman Rebels ( 1936 ) Mark Sandrich - Katharine Hepburn , Herbert Marshall , Van Heflin
The Marriage-Go-Round	Ronald Reagan ( he's John ) loves Patricia Neal ( she's Mary ) , but he's married to his best friend's girl . There is a very good reason : best friend Jack Carson saved Mr . Reagan's life during World War II and Reagan married Lily to help his buddy out - you see , Lily needs an American husband to obtain passage to the USA . Meanwhile , Mr . Carson has married another woman ? Even for the time , the comedy dialog in " John Loves Mary " must have sounded remarkably unsophisticated ; listen , for example , to the scene when Reagan explains how he dealt with " loneliness " during his four years of service . The performances match the low average nature of the proceedings . Most notable as Patricia Neal's ( inauspicious ) movie debut . John Loves Mary ( 1949 ) David Butler - Ronald Reagan , Patricia Neal , Jack Carson
South of the Border	In the days before the Great War ( aka World War ) I ) , in the Caribbean Sea , the tiny nation of Paragonia nestled . Soon , the " jewel set in the girdle of the earth " would need All-American Douglas Fairbanks to settle unrest . In the spring of 1910 , a New York mining company's contract with the Republic comes up for renewal . Paragonia's " Minister of War " Carl Stockdale ( as Salsa Espada ) is alone in opposing the renewal ; he thinks Americans are " pigs " , and wants to rule the Republic . President Spottiswoode Aiken ( as Hernando de Valdez ) and Premier Tote du Crow ( as Alberto de Castille ) have their way , and the contract is signed . Meanwhile , Mr . Aiken's comely daughter Alma Rubens ( as Juana de Valdez ) attracts suitors like Charles Stevens ( as Colonel Gargaras ) . In New York City , young mining engineer Douglas Fairbanks ( as " The Americano " ) is offered a job in Paragonia . At first , Fairbanks refuses ( " Too far from Brooklyn ! " ) - - but , when he sees fetching Ms . Rubens visiting the American Mining Company office , he is smitten . Upon arrival , Fairbanks finds the dictatorial Mr . Stockdale has taken over the country , and thrown its popular president in prison . Moreover , Rubens is being forced into an unhappy marriage ? This was the last , and not the best , of the Fairbanks " Triangle " films supervised by D . W . Griffith . The acclaimed director's influence can be seen occasionally , in the film's relatively elaborate structure , and characterizations . For example , Reubens is introduced petting a bird . And , while it wasn't only Griffith who employed offensive black-faced characters like Tom Wilson ( as Harold Armitage " Whitey " White ) , he created this role for Wilson ( who pets his lucky rabbit's foot ) . The Mexican locale is a highlight .
The Price is Low	Vincent Price fails to illuminate Richard III - possibly this is due to the direction of Roger Corman , and the resources available to the filmmakers . It's interesting to watch Mr . Price and the others attempt this odd version of Shakespeare ; if you're not a fan of either , you probably won't enjoy this " Tower of London . " Mr . Price as Richard kills many in his quest for the throne . Some of the deaths are ( suggestively ) quite disturbing , but the victims ' " ghosts " are incredibly silly-looking . They act silly , too . The hero and heroine are played by Robert Brown and Joan Freeman - I thought their characterizations were okay ; they seemed to know what their roles were and what kind of movie they were performing in , unlike some others in the cast . Tower of London ( 1962 ) Roger Corman - Vincent Price , Robert Brown , Joan Freeman
Broken Hip	The DVD sleeve explains the premise : " Three problem teens are headed for jail , " and are " set to do time until Captain Greer offers them a deal to work for him - undercover . " The film opens with definitions of the words " Mod " and " Squad " , so you won't have to look them up in the dictionary . For a visual definition of " Cool " , search for photographs of the original threesome : Michael Cole ( as Pete Cochran ) , Clarence Williams III ( as Linc Hayes ) , and Peggy Lipton ( as Julie Barnes ) . One black . One white . One blonde . Once they defined cool . The three who make up Scott Silver's version of Aaron Spelling's " The Mod Squad " are twentysomethings : Claire Danes ( as Julie Barnes ) , Giovanni Ribisi ( as Pete Cochran ) , and Omar Epps ( as Linc Hayes ) . They aren't able to do much with the material given . Mr . Ribisi's portrayal is the most " far out " , meaning he digresses most from the original characterization . Ms . Danes romances Josh Brolin ( as Billy Waites ) , who looks like he could be in a re-make of " Marcus Welby , MD " . You won't believe hefty Michael Lerner dancing with Mr . Epps ' " Linc " . He explains , " I'm not a fairy , I just like to dance ! " and requests , " Spin me ! " The Mod Squad ( 1999 ) Scott Silver - Claire Danes , Giovanni Ribisi , Omar Epps
Darrell Howe's Anatomy	" A young man is despondent over the conviction and subsequent execution of his older brother . Having idolized his brother to the point of it being an obsession , the young man cannot believe he was guilty , even though he was , and swears to avenge him . The crazed young man decides to carry out his revenge by tracking down and killing all the officials and jurors responsible for his brother's trial and execution , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Boris Petroff's " Anatomy of a Psycho " is a pale period piece , which seemingly sought to ( given the title ) bask in the glow of two significantly more timeless films . It might have been interesting had it tweaked the covertly homosexual relationship between Darrell Howe ( as Chet Marco ) and Frank Kiliman ( as Bobby Brown ) , for starters . By the way , it's easy to mistake Mr . Howe for Ronnie Burns ( as Mickey Craig ) , due to the latter's star billing . Mr . Burns , who plays a slightly more secondary role to Mr . Howe's " bad boy " lead , was the more well-known actor , due to his appearing from 1955-'59 on his parents ' TV series . Relax , Ronnie does not stray too far from his familiar role as the nice young son of George Burns & Gracie Allen . Anatomy of a Psycho ( 1961 ) Boris Petroff - Darrell Howe , Ronnie Burns , Pamela Lincoln
I Want My , I Want My , I Want My SAT	Chris Evans , Erika Christensen , Bryan Greenberg , Scarlett Johansson , Leonardo Nam and , " NBA star Darius Miles lead this hip coming-of-age comedy about six students who try to break into the testing center and steal the answers to the SAT , " according to the official synopsis , " The classmates are wildly different , but share a common goal - to prevent the standardized test from unfairly defining their lives . As they plot a hilarious heist that could make - or break - their futures , the students grow closer , never suspecting where they'll ultimately find the real answers ? within themselves . " The leading players are good-looking , but they neither look nor act like they are in high school . Nothing against the actors hired , but there are adult performers who could pass for high school age students . A couple of changes would have given the cast a more believable appearance . What makes it worse is that the idea was a good one , but , really ? this cast doesn't look like they are teens stressing-out over getting " The Perfect Score " on their SATs . Instead , they look like they should be having sex and getting sliced up by " Freddy " or " Jason " . The lighting and photography ( Clark Mathis ) are nice . The Perfect Score ( / 04 ) Brian Robbins - Chris Evans , Erika Christensen , Scarlett Johansson
No Smoking !	I was very confused . What happened to the Doctor on the telephone line ? What happened between Mr . Colman and Ms . Loy ? I guess this is a case where less is not more . ( So , a scene with Colman resisting Loy's advances , and she respecting him for it , was cut ? ) The acting is a collision of three types : Stage , Silent , and Talking . Some of the camera work was nice . . . most everything else was way below what you'd expect from even an early talking movie . The doctors in these early films sure drink and smoke a lot . . . The moral of the story , I guess is that women should not smoke - witness what happens to poor Ms . Hayes ! Arrowsmith ( 1931 ) John Ford - Ronald Colman , Helen Hayes , Myrna Loy
" Gabby " and " Purdy " Steal the Show	Roy Rogers ( as Roy Colt ) is the Texas Ranger sent to collect , and Jacqueline Wells ( as Jane Tabor ) is the Lady who won't pay tolls as they disagree on Texan / Mexican territory status . Mr . Rogers is assisted by his trusty sidekick George " Gabby " Hayes ( as Gabby ) and Ms . Wells ( later more commonly known as Julie Bishop ) is assisted by her trusty sidekick Si " Purdy " Jenks ( as Purdy ) . Though Rogers is said to be smitten with the Lady Bishop , few sparks fly between them . The more entertaining twosome are the sidekicks - Gabby and Purdy , who get to share a bed ! - but , relax , Gabby is just in Purdy's bed to hide-out . The old codgers might have could have elevated the film , if their material was better . Gabby does get to call Bishop a " She-male " ; later , she shoots two men , then bows demurely when Rogers gets one . " The Ranger and the Lady " doesn't meet expectations . The Ranger and the Lady ( 1940 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Julie Bishop
England Swings for Herman's Hermits	In swinging 1960s England , " Herman's Hermits " - - aka Peter " Herman " N-o-o-n-e , Keith Hopwood , Derek Leckenby , Karl Green , and Barry Whitwam - - get involved with dog-racing for profit . Stanley Holloway and Mona Washbourne ( as Mr . and Mrs . Brown ) lift the film's acting levels only slightly , unfortunately ; they have a very fetching teen model daughter Judy ( Sarah Caldwell ) , who catches Mr . N-o-o-n-e's eye . The other " Mrs . Brown " is his greyhound dog . By far , the best part of the film is Herman's " There's a Kind of Hush ( All Over the World ) " night dream ; it's a great song , and was a huge international hit for the group in early 1967 . Title song " Mrs . Brown You've Got a Lovely Daughter " is also a winner ; however , it is not given a full performance in this film - - and , it's an even older track . Strong new material from the group ( and session players Jimmy Page and John Paul Jones ) might have helped this film . The " My Old Man's A Dustman " scene / song is amusing , but why wasn't a Hermits-sung performance if this song used ? That might have provided the group with a film supporting novelty hit ; at least in the USA , which the Hermits seemed more able to do than Most . . . it is spelled N-o-o-n-e , but the correct spelling doesn't work
Crawford , Chaney , Bronson , and Talman - - Cell-Mates !	It's " The F . B . I . " starring Reed Hadley , with an all-star guest cast ! The film begins with an accidental ( convenient ? ) kidnapping , which leads to one thing , and another - which doesn't really indicate the main story , which is a " Big House , U . S . A . " prison break story . The story is very improbable , to say the least . It's like a TV show , only more " violent " ( for the times ) . BUT - the cast is a trip ! Picture this : Ralph Meeker is sent to prison ; his cell-mates are the following criminals : Broderick Crawford , Lon Chaney Jr . , Charles Bronson ( reading a " Muscle " magazine ! ) , and William Talman ( reading a " Detective " magazine ! ) . Honest ! You should know that , an early scene reveals what happens to the " missing " boy , answering the ending " voiceover . " If you don't want to have that hanging , don't miss the opening scenes between the " Iceman " and the boy ( Peter Votrian doing well as a runaway asthmatic ) . Big House , U . S . A . ( 1955 ) Howard W . Koch - Broderick Crawford , Ralph Meeker , Reed Hadley
Jimmy We Hardly Knew Ye	This appears to be a very ordinary documentary , written , produced and directed by Ara Chekmayan , for the video market . However , it promises to be , " A stunning NEW look at a legendary star . " What's new will depend upon what you already know . I found this account of James Dean's life interesting , and learned some things which would probably not surprise many others . Most interesting to learn of Mr . Dean's train ride with his mother's coffin , a girlfriend suddenly marrying another man ( Vic Damone ) , and the fact that there was another passenger ( Rolf the mechanic ) in the car crash which killed Dean . Julie Harris , William Bast , and some other " friends , co-stars , and teachers " ( it says here , on the box ) share their " insightful " interviews . Ms . Harris speaks sweetly about working with Dean on " East of Eden " . Mr . Bast shares a very sweet story about when his mother came to visit himself and Dean in their apartment . Kenneth Kendall talks about creating a beautiful head sculpture of Dean , which was stolen from his grave , unfortunately . There are generous clips from Dean's three feature films , but only a couple of clips which could , arguably , be called " never before seen . " Charges Dean was " homosexual " are vociferously denied . Chris Busone does a very ' 80s sounding tribute song called " American Rebel " . " Forever James Dean " is far more insightful about marketing than it is about Dean . Forever James Dean ( 1988 ) Ara Chekmayan - James Dean , Julie Harris , William Bast
Tired of Toein ' the Line	Reform school resident Sean Thomas Roche ( as Tommy Morton ) receives a visit from father Ralph Meeker ( as Bert Morton ) , who informs him schoolteacher mother Ida Lupino ( as Bess Morton ) is retiring . Clearly , Mr . Meeker and Mr . Roche have some " generation gap " difficulties ; but , they pale in comparison with the love lost between the two men and Ms . Lupino . Lupino could care less about her delinquent son ; instead , she enjoys tutoring pretty young Kerry Lynn ( as Priscilla ) . Little do the adults know , but the " kids " are plotting ? This sometimes confusing , and seldom plausible , " misunderstood kids drama " has a few interesting attributes . Old pro Lloyd Nolan tries to sort out the plot ; he contributes greatly to an interesting cast . Prrforming admirably , Mr . Nolan makes everyone sharing his screen time look better . David Doyle , waiting for " Charlie's Angels " to resume , has quite a " My Boys Are Good Boys " backstory to tell . Notably , Lupino's shrewish characterization was her last film appearance , before retiring .
Wayne Goes Topless	In this absurd John Ford biography , John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara play the young Mr . & Mrs . Spig Wead . Watching their drinking and smoking habits , it's a wonder they didn't burn down the house , or fall down the stairs , earlier . Mr . Wayne is way too old for these shenanigans ; all of the slapstick carousing could not have been good for his health . Favorite early film moment : check out the way Wayne attacks Ms . O'Hara's face in the " love scene " before the accident ! Intermission : John Wayne and Dan Daily sing , " I'm Gonna Move That Toe " . The movie becomes more dramatic . To show his advancing years , Wayne plays without his toupee ; surprisingly , he looks more natural , and vulnerable , than he ever will again . Not so for O'Hara ; who looks like Maureen O'Hara with an ugly streak of silver paint in her hair . Check out the scene with Wayne saying , " ? it's too late " ; then , O'Hara kisses his balding head - a symbolic way of saying , " John Wayne , you are older than your years , take it easy , we love you . " It's a very nicely photographed scene , and the highlight of the movie . That's what the film has to offer - nice moments . Finally , the movie becomes a war story . There are a lot of bombs , and airplanes crash . The John Wayne / John Ford " formula " production shows signs of crashing with " The Wings of Eagles " . The Wings of Eagles ( 1957 ) John Ford - John Wayne , Maureen O'Hara , Ward Bond
Getting a Head	" In this macabre tale of science gone wrong , a scientist is successful in creating a serum capable of keeping a dog's head alive after the body dies . Before the scientist can take advantage of his new discovery , he suffers a fatal heart attack . His assistant uses the formula to keep the scientist's severed head alive in an attempt to transplant the head of ( a ) beautiful , but hunch-backed , nurse to the body of an exotic dancer , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Victor Trivas ' " The Head " is a lurid decapitation import . The dog operation is referred to , but not shown . The film is better done , but not as much fun as " The Brain That Wouldn't Die " . Die nackte und der Satan ( 1959 ) Victor Trivas - Horst Frank , Karin Kernke , Michel Simon
A Vampire Film with Little Bite	" An archaeologist visits a remote island to bury his late father and , despite the warnings from the local people , opens the tomb of the vampire queen , buried over 700 years ago . This foolish act by the archaeologist and his reporter friend places the entire island in danger , including the local schoolteacher ? With the schoolteacher in danger of being a sacrifice to the vampire queen , the duo sets out to stop the vampires , rescue the teacher , and destroy the vampire queen , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Just so you know , the " schoolteacher " Patty Sheppard ( Mary ) is bad guy Mark Damon ( Peter ) ' s sister . Andrew Prine ( Chris ) is the good guy . The film is atmospheric , and features an able cast - but , it takes an interminably long time for anything to happen . When it picks up , it isn't much . And , suddenly , after getting very long in the tooth , it flames out . . . How can a 1970s vampire film be so anemic ? La tumba de la isla maldita ( 1973 ) Ray Danton , Julio Salvador - Andrew Prine , Mark Damon , Patty Sheppard
Steer Clear	" A test pilot and his weather observer partner are trying to develop a robot-controlled plane they hope their employer can sell to the army . Foreign agents learn of their work and sabotage the plane , hoping to stop the inventors and allowing the spies to steal the invention . Our inventors hope to thwart the plans of the spies and deliver the robot plane to the army , thus saving the country , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . After making an impression in 1940's popular " The Westerner " , young Forrest Tucker ( as Jerry Barton ) is piloted into a starring programmer role . " Emergency Landing " ( inappropriately re-titled " Robot Pilot " ) is an unimpressive vehicle for Mr . Tucker , who would find later success in television's " F Troop " . Listen for an amusing exchange between leading lady Carol Hughes ( as Betty Lambert ) and aunt Evelyn Brent ( as Maude Marshall ) : on their way to tinsel town , Ms . Brent wonders what she will do in Hollywood . Ms . Hughes replies , " Barrymore is single again . " Brent appeared with John Barrymore in " Raffles " ( 1917 ) and " Night Club Scandal " ( 1937 ) ; indeed , he had just received his fourth divorce .
Every Man Has Business and Desire	When one of easily aroused officer Michael Harris ( as Jack Ramsey ) ' s sexual conquests turns up strangled , he becomes a prime suspect . It's apparent ( to viewers ) that Mr . Harris is being framed , as the killings continue . Harris ' police pal Brion James ( as Ben McCarthy ) , who recovers from hangovers exceptionally well , is an odd ball ; perhaps , he is involved ? Victim's sister Carrie-Anne Moss ( as Jane Tanner ) , who can be roughed-up before sex ( with Harris , anyway ) , has a secret ; perhaps , she is involved ? Or , is it someone else ? The killer's identity is almost as explicit as the sex . Whatever those dopers paid Johnny Medina ( as Manny Ortega ) wasn't enough . The Soft Kill ( 1994 ) Eli Cohen - Michael Harris , Brion James , Carrie-Anne Moss
Runaway Train Wreck	Terrorists spread the Plague on an all-star cast aboard a luxurious European train . After a fairly decent opening , the star-studded cast gets down to the task at hand , making you bored silly . In the underwear scene sweepstakes , Sophia Loren easily beats Martin Sheen ( Ann Turkel and Ray Lovelock are disqualified , for not showing enough ) . Richard Harris portrays a doctor . O . J . Simpson masquerades as a priest . Lee Strasberg impersonates an actor . Burt Lancaster and Ingrid Thulin aren't actually on the plague-infected train , but look pained anyway . In the softest focus , Ava Gardner appears to be having some fun . If only Lionel Stander did an impression of Hervé Villechaize exclaiming , " The plague , the plague ! " they'd have had a potential comedy , instead of a disaster . The Cassandra Crossing ( / 76 ) George P . Cosmatos - Sophia Loren , Richard Harris , Martin Sheen
Road to Silly	I thought Mr . Crosby had a great voice . He should have had more singing time in the film . Mr . Hope seemed a bit hapless - perhaps he and Crosby were not ready for the film . They seemed very unrehearsed , especially during the " song and dance " bit . The movie is very dated . My grandmother says this " comedy " wasn't even funny , to her , back then . I believe these " native / road " movies sent a coded message that there would be a lot of " skin " time shown . . . well , this doesn't work , today . The players don't show all that much skin ; perhaps , at that time , it was enough ? The " clever " jokes ( Sadie Thompson was the hooker in " Rain " ) seem not to move the characters along . Many of the scenes look disjointed , and cheap . The ending is a mild pick-up . Despite the obvious " come ons " , the film is sexless . Road to Bali ( 1952 ) Hal Walker - Bing Crosby , Bob Hope , Dorothy Lamour
A Star Is Boring , A Star Is Boring	When World War II ends , singer Liza Minnelli ( as Francine Evans ) meets saxophonist Robert De Niro ( as Jimmy Doyle ) during celebrations . Although neither seems at all attracted to the other , he tries to pick her up . After repeated attempts and refusals , the ill-matched duo decide they can make beautiful music together . They make out in a cab , and eventually tie the knot . Then , wouldn't you know , their careers follow the predictable " A Star Is Born " path . How could a well-budgeted Martin Scorsese direct Ms . Minnelli , and Mr . De Niro in a film so dull ? " New York , New York " is an astonishing misuse of resources . A lot of the dialogue seems improvised , as has been noted by some of the principals . Mr . Scorsese certainly gives the undeserving story a stylish look , however . And , the music is terrific ; especially Minnelli's standout performance of " New York , New York " - - if you can stand the wait .
Those Doggone Scottish Laws	Back ( again ) in Scotland , Lassie is ( again ) on trial for her life . Because the faithful dog sleeps on her master's grave , she must be put to death , according to law . Oddly , it is also explained that Lassie had no " legal " owner , which is , apparently , also against an old Scottish law . If , after three days , no owner is located , dogs must be destroyed . Edmund Gwenn ( as John Traill ) pleads Lassie's case , which leads to an extended flashback , showing Lassie's adoption by Donald Crisp ( as John " Jock " Gray ) . Although it's based on an interesting , original story ( " Greyfriars Bobby " ) , " Challenge to Lassie " revisits several earlier Lassie situations ; and , it does not improve upon them . Comparatively speaking , this one is sloppy and unexciting ; and , it's a disappointing follow-up to " The Sun Comes Up " ( 1949 ) . Geraldine Brooks ( as Susan Brown ) and several of the other performers may be charming , but can't elevate this one . Little Jimmy Hawkins ( from " It's a Wonderful life " ) is among the notable children supporting Lassie ; much later , he will grow up to marry " Dark Shadows " ' bewitching " Angelique " ( Lara Parker ) .
Timber ! . . . and Watch Out for That Horse . . .	Roy Rogers ( as Roy ) is an insurance investigator who goes undercover to solve a robbery ; among the suspects is Dale Evans ( as Betty Weston ) ' s father Harry Shannon ( as Sam Weston ) , who has just broken jail . Mr . Rogers gets a job singing on Ms . Evans ' show boat " Yellow Rose of Texas " . Later , Bob Nolan and the " Sons of the Pioneers " are hired , too . Evans doesn't think her dear father Harry Shannon is guilty . Do you ? Mr . Nolan and the Sons are in fine voice , with the first rendition of " Timber ! " an obvious highlight . The plot really doesn't make much sense , by Rogers seems to figure it out ( so you won't have to ) ; it is resolved with the opening of a box on the " Show Boat " . Watch as a fake horse almost knocks Dale Evans over when she enters to sing the final version of the title song ! The Yellow Rose of Texas ( 1944 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , Dale Evans , Harry Shannon
Can Robert Pull Barbara Out of His Hat ?	Robert Taylor ( as Chris Claybourne ) is a playboy doctor who falls in love with model Barbara Stanwyck ( as Rita Wilson ) . This is a film for Barbara Stanwyck and Robert Taylor ( he takes off his shirt as a bonus ) fans only . Otherwise , " His Brother's Wife " is an absurd movie . The opening switches around from an infested Jungle Fever ? to Mr . Taylor as a seemingly alcoholic doctor ? to Ms . Stanwyck playing Roulette ? Then , Stanwyck and Taylor go on a prolonged date where she discovers he has a fetish for collecting and / or trading hats , which seems to disappear with his alcoholic tendencies - actually , he's an excellent doctor . Later , listen for Stanwyck to tell Taylor he smokes too much . His Brother's Wife ( 1936 ) W . S . Van Dyke II - Robert Taylor , Barbara Stanwyck , Joseph Calleia
A Comedy without Respect	Bucking for a promotion at work , Rodney Dangerfield ( as Chester Lee ) brags about his soccer prowess ; so , his boss assigns him coach for " The Ladybugs " , an inept girls soccer team . Mr . Dangerfield knows little about soccer , and less about coaching the team ; so , he persuades girlfriend's sporting son Jonathan Brandis ( as Matthew ) to join the team , in drag . Donning a wig to become " Martha " , Mr . Brandis becomes the team's star " girl " player . How long can this deception last ? Promotion as " A Comedy with Balls " gives away the film's big wit ; of course , there are several jokes about testicles . Dangerfield and assistant Jackée Harry ( as Julie Benson ) can be much funnier than they are in this movie . The problem , perhaps , is that Dangerfield is " toned down " to appeal to a younger audience . Otherwise , it's difficult to believe the situation herein . Brandis has a non-gender specific appeal ; he is best in a scene entertaining a " fellow " pretty soccer player , Vinessa Shaw ( as Kimberly ) . Watch Brandis change between " Matthew " and " Martha " very quickly , with a cool stairway trick . There are some ( admittedly straw-grasping , here ) admirable messages for younger girls : for example , self-conscious " Penny Pester " is made to feel pretty ; and , the team is given some " you can do it " ( despite being girls ) confidence . However , it's difficult to believe a high school teenager would join a girls soccer team to either get close to a girl , or please a prospective step-father . And , a character's reaction to the farce is incomprehensible ( " ? corrupt my son ! " , " Go to your room ! " ) . Worse yet is a " changing room " scene with commits a comedy sin ; it's offensive without being funny . Ladybugs ( 1992 ) Sidney J . Furie - Rodney Dangerfield , Jonathan Brandis , Jackée Harry
The Island of Doctor Myra	Soda shop teenagers Don Sullivan ( as Reg ) , Jay Hawk ( as Morrie ) , and Mitzie Albertson ( as Julie ) discuss waterskiing and horseback riding . Hay-brained Mr . Hawk decides to go riding with girlfriend Nan Green ( as Dotty ) while the others join Paul Pepper ( as Skip ) and Brianne Murphy ( as Pam ) for water sports . The four boaters wind up stranded on a mysterious island . There , the waterskiing couples lose their boat , and are held captive by glamour-gowned doctor Katherine Victor ( as Myra ) - she wants to turn the teenagers into zombies ! Jerry Warren's " Teenage Zombies " is a very poorly produced , sometimes fun film . The storyline is silly , but easy to understand . Communists want to turn the United States into a bunch of zombies . They might have considered letting nature take its course ( but , then , there wouldn't be a movie ) . An ensemble cast , led by Sullivan , plays the material very well , considering the script's obvious idiocy . Hawk does a surprisingly good job as " Morrie " . And , Ms . Victor is a hilariously hospitable hostess , offering soda pop to her potential zombies . Teenage Zombies ( 1959 ) Jerry Warren - Don Sullivan , Katherine Victor , Jay Hawk
The Pied Gypsy	A little girl has " Her First Adventure " when she goes to town to watch a band of gypsies perform on a New Jersey street , and follows their caravan . The gypsies are amused by the little girl , and decide to keep her . Eventually , her family and the police lead a hot pursuit , led by the girl's heroic pooch . D . W . Griffith is featured , in his " Lawrence Griffith " acting guise , as another father . G . W . Bitzer photographed . Robert Harron is an extra ; he's in the early crowd scene , center left of your screen , enjoying the gypsy dancer . The " AB " ( American Biograph studio logo ) is featured prominently . Otherwise , this is an unremarkable , static feature .
Tokyo , Mon Amour	James Cagney ( as Nick Condon ) is a reporter in Tokyo ; a dutiful , precognizant American , he confronts the increasing grip of Fascism on the Japanese people , during the reign of Tanaka Giichi . Sylvia Sidney ( as Iris Hilliard ) , is a mysterious part-Chinese woman , who provides Mr . Cagney with intrigue and romance . While Ms . Sydney is somewhat successful in her portrayal , the other Japanese impersonations are embarrassing . The movie bases much of its storyline on the existence of the " Tanaka Document " , a Hitler-type blueprint for evil , which was more likely a propagandist's creation . Under these circumstances , Cagney and company's attempt to produce convincing entertainment collapses .
The Hunter Gets Captured by the Game	Computer savvy John Light ( as John Elias ) goes from Stanford drop-out to successful young Dotcom-era tycoon . But , Mr . Light's sneering success could be short-lived , with partners like ambitious Jeffrey Donovan ( as Robert Jennings ) . Mr . Donovan used to bed down with Light's girlfriend , Megan Dodds ( as Lisa Forrester ) . Donovan wants Light to know that binge drinking and casual sex don't have to end in college . After reading a naughty Internet sex session , Ms . Dodds shines Light on . He may lose is " Digital Dreams " Internet empire , too ! Veterans unsuccessfully trying to lending dramatic gravitas include red lollipop-sucking Mia Farrow ( as Anna Simmons ) and quick-drawing , computer-hating Hal Holbrook ( as Tom Walker ) . Ms . Farrow looks sweet with her lollipops . Purpose ( 2002 ) Alan Lazar - John Light , Jeffrey Donovan , Mia Farrow
Tepid Ginger and Talbot	" Rival reporters Pat Morgan ( Ginger Rogers ) and Ted Rand ( Lyle Talbot ) are always trying to out-scoop each other on stories . The latest involves the mysterious death of a philanthropist who fell to his death after a shriek was heard from his penthouse apartment . The two reporters start out as rivals but combine efforts to solve the crime and write the story when more residents of the apartment building turn up dead , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . This said-to-be follow-up to " The Thirteenth Guest " has little to do with the earlier movie ; it is not a sequel , as has been inferred . Ms . Rogers continues to develop her skills . Mr . Talbot adds a little humor to his characterization . They are a pleasant team , the plot is interesting and mysterious ; but , the resulting film is very dull . The opening and closing are startling . A long-winded wrap-up of plot development points follows the climax . A Shriek in the Night ( 1933 ) Albert Ray - Ginger Rogers , Lyle Talbot , Harvey Clark
Ann Miller's Wardrobe Malfunction	Penny Singleton ( she's Bill ) and Glenn Ford ( he's Tex ) arrive in the western town of Headstone . The town is terrorized by a " Killer Pete " ( he wears a black scarf ) . Resident Ann Miller ( she's local bad girl Lola ) makes trouble . Will Lola get whatever Lola wants ? Will lady Bill find love ? And , who is " Killer Pete ? " The film's highlight is a fight , near the end , between Ms . Singleton and Ms . Miller . Note the differing pronunciations of the word " posse " - AND , in a first-class wardrobe malfunction , Singleton accidentally rips open Miller's blouse . Other than that , the film may entertain friends and relatives of those who worked in the production . There are also some country & western musical acts , which could be a treat , if you're a fan . Go West , Young Lady ( 1941 ) Frank Strayer - Penny Singleton , Glenn Ford , Ann Miller
Lackluster Luke	Harold Lloyd runs a movie theater , which is successfully drawing crowds for " The Iron Claw " , a Pathé serial . With " Snub " Pollard employed as projectionist , things get understandably tangled up . Mr . Lloyd is expectedly distracted by irresistible female movie patrons , like Bebe Daniels . The film doesn't show any of " The Iron Claw " ; instead , there are some crowd scenes . Mr . Pollard sleeps on the job , and somebody surely shouts " Fire ! " Opportunities for inspired comedy are obviously missed , during the aptly titled " Luke's Movie Muddle " . Luke's Movie Muddle ( 1916 ) Hal Roach - Harold Lloyd , ' Snub ' Pollard , Bebe Daniels
Food for the Mob	" In this rousing crime drama , a hard-nosed gang of criminals attempts to move in on local food distribution channels . Vowing to break down their strong-arming operation is heroic city market official Michael Lynn ( John Litel ) , who hopes to disband the racket by removing the operation head from power . Lynn's scheme is to infiltrate the gang as an incompetent stooge on the government's payroll , unmask the leader's identity , and then make his deadly move , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Mr . Litel gets to play the leading man , but in a low-budget , under-rehearsed quickie . Perky reporter Florence Rice ( as Linda Gregory ) , in her penultimate screen appearance , is Litel's main female interest . Ms . Rice wears very TALL headgear . " The Boss of Big Town " offers some good-looking 1940s female fashion , with a California pool scene , and Jean Brooks ( as Iris Moore ) . There is also an opportunity to see Howard Hughes protégée David Bacon ( as Dr . Gil Page ) . In real life , Mr . Bacon would soon be found stabbed to death , in an odd , unsolved Hollywood murder . Silent film veterans H . B . Warner ( as Jeffrey Moore ) and John Miljan ( as Kenneth Craige ) , along with future veteran Frank Ferguson ( as Bram Hart ) , are among those who fail to generate any additional excitement . The Boss of Big Town ( 1942 ) Arthur Dreifuss - John Litel , Florence Rice , David Bacon
Coppola , Bring Me the Axe !	" Louise Haloran is faced with a dilemma since her husband John has died of a heart attack and is not included in his mother's will . Traveling to his family's ancestral home in Ireland , Louise hopes to ingrain herself into the family while telling them that John is away on business . Unfortunately , John's family is very dysfunctional due to the drowning death of his little sister years ago , so Louise must deal with some very bizarre behavior and strange happenings , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Notable as a very early effort from writer / director Francis Ford Coppola , who went on to much greater success in the 1970s . Producer Roger Corman should be commended as he , once again , provides work for an up-and-coming Hollywood player . Mr . Coppola , unlike some other Corman travelers , doesn't really rise to the occasion , for his " Dementia 13 " . What worked for Alfred Hitchcock ( director of " Psycho " ) does not work for everybody , obviously . On the other hand , under-appreciated actress Luana Anders ( as Louise Haloran ) is worth checking out , both in and out of her clothing . Dementia 13 ( 1963 ) Francis Ford Coppola - Luana Anders , William Campbell , Bart Patton
Roll Out the Barrel	Roy Rogers is back on border patrol , investigating the smuggling of criminals across the U . S . - Mexican border . Clayton Moore ( as Tom Sharper ) is a fellow border patrolman who discovers the wicked smugglers , and is left for dead ; instead , he gets amnesia . Andy Devine ( as " Cookie " ) is a helpful judge , and Gail Davis ( as Susan ) adds femininity . Foy Willing and the Riders of the Purple Sage add harmony . Production-line Rogers western story , with better than average performances . The supporting players are rather good , and there are a few exciting moments . The song dubbing is distractingly poor , and the story very weak - - you'll wonder about some story contrivances . . . Rogers and Moore ( later " The Lone Ranger " ) have a jail-cell fistfight ; incredibly , Rogers beats Moore up to cure his amnesia ! The Far Frontier ( 1948 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Gail Davis , Andy Devine
Dancing with Mr .	" Three macabre tales of terror are featured in this frightful thriller hosted by the incomparable ' Mr . D ' ( Lon Chaney Jr . ) . A psychotic photographer is faced with a beauty that haunts his pictures and dreams in one tale . A scientist becomes obsessed with a frozen ' Ice Princess ' that leads to an unfortunate ending in another tale . Finally , a man fears his own death after a visit with a fortuneteller in the last of these horrifying stories , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Although possessing three individual stories , " The Devil's Messenger " does have a unifying plot strand , featuring the character portrayed by Karen Kadler ( " Satanya " ) . She has committed suicide , and is sent back to Earth , by Lon Chaney Jr . ( as Satan ) , on various missions . Other than that , the stories don't have much to do with each other . Unfortunately , Mr . Chaney is an uninteresting devil . The first story , featuring John Crawford ( as Donald Powell ) is the best , with good photography and " A Most Unusual Camera " ( Twilight Zone ) worthy plot . The Devil's Messenger ( 1961 ) Herbert L . Strock - Karen Kadler , John Crawford , Lon Chaney Jr .
Storm & Payne trump Rogers & Rogers	Roy Rogers stars as Jesse James and his look-alike , gambler man Clint Burns . George " Gabby " Hayes is Mr . Rogers's ex-pal , Sheriff Gabby . Gale Storm ( Jane Fillmore ) and Sally Payne ( Polly Morgan ) are a noteworthy team , as two reporters on the lookout for stories about the elusive outlaw hero . Of course , mistaken identity / impersonation is a plot development , since Rogers essays a " dual role " . Rogers is charming , as usual ; but , there is nothing really elevating this his performance above the ordinary - any potential to deliver a memorable Jekyll / Hyde performance is done in by poor material . The better pair to watch are Ms . Storm and Ms . Paye as the St . Louis Journal reporters - they are the film's highlight . The songs are fine , though badly synched . Jesse James at Bay ( 1941 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Gale Storm
Hanging On the Firing Line	Charles Coburn plays a lovable old veteran who returns to his hometown of Fredricksville , Georgia as World War II commences . There , he finds nephew William Eythe , who helps facilitate a job for his uncle on the town newspaper . Also on staff is society gal Joan Bennett . Mr . Coburn uses his newspaper column " On the Firing Line " to rally the townspeople - he wants to save an old town Courthouse from being torn down , and replaced . Can he rally the townspeople to save the monument from demolition ? Although the Courthouse in danger is a Confederate Courthouse , there is no political agenda offered by the film - it's simply a story about weeding out political corruption , and preserving an old building . There is , however , a stereotypical servant ( called " Orderly 98 " ) who isn't too hard to take until his offensive fencing scene with Coburn . The " whistle " which accompanies close-ups of Ms . Bennett's legs is ridiculous . Don't expect authentic Georgia accents . A nice idea , and a competent cast , aren't enough to lift this " Colonel Effingham's Raid " . Colonel Effingham's Raid ( 1946 ) Irving Pichel - Charles Coburn , Joan Bennett , William Eythe
The Biograph Girl and the Beard	Princess Florence Lawrence ( " The Biograph Girl " ) is fickle with men ; she rejects bearded Frank Powell when he arrives for their royal wedding , and refuses to greet him with a kiss . The royal court is thrown asunder ; so , court " Cardinal " James Kirkwood conspires to reintroduce lovely Ms . Lawrence to the dashing Mr . Powell . First , he has Powell shave his beard ( leaving the moustache attached ) ; then , he arranges to have Powell save Lawrence from a staged attack , by four men . As planned , Lawrence falls for her noble savior ; but , later , she learns of the deception , and sends him away . Yet , she loves him ? The D . W . Griffith stock is more difficult to spot in costumed frocks . Lawrence is pretty as the Princess ; she and Powell have fun playing for the " The Cardinal's Conspiracy " . Griffith always makes the most out of a man's facial hair .
Throwing Out the Baby in the Basket	George Gebhardt is tracking down Charles Inslee , looking to settle an old debt . Mr . Gebhardt finds Mr . Inslee in an old tenement building , living with his wife Marion Leonard , and their baby . Inslee explains he is as penniless as down-and-out Gebhardt , and has no money . The two men argue , and Gebhardt angrily marks the door to Inslee's apartment with a vengeful " X " as he leaves . Later , Gebhardt returns to rig a horrific plan ; he'll have Ms . Leonard unwittingly kill their baby by hanging the bound baby in a basket from the apartment window ; when mother opens the window , baby falls to a certain death ! Biograph's New York studio , and area location are helpful in story setting ; in the set-up scenes , the extras are pleasing to watch - - they include Biograph girls Linda Arvidson , Florence Lawrence , and Dorothy West . Director D . W . Griffith's story goes for the sure-fire suspense by putting an innocent baby's life in danger . There are some notable storytelling flaws - - for instance , note that the baby is conveniently pre-bound , and Ms . Leonard's table cloth is certainly not her favorite ! Still , there are some nice touches ; like Gebhardt's marking , and later wiping of the " X " on his enemy's door . " The Cord of Life " is the string which holds the basketed baby from the apartment window ; the string is held in place by the closed window ; when the window is opened , the string should loosen , and drop the baby , according to villainous Gebhardt's plan . For fun , try to figure out how father Inslee plans to solve the problem , and save the baby .
Getting a Leg Up	" A rural Texas town finds itself beset by a series of mysterious disappearances and deaths with no seemingly rational explanation . The local sheriff is faced with an angry community leader demanding an end to the matter , or his resignation . Through the combined efforts of the sheriff and a quick witted mechanic , the source of the problem is discovered , a fifty-foot Gila monster who has run out of food , and is now preying upon the local populace , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . God's unexplored wilderness ( aka Texas ) , as shown in the film's beginning , includes no sign of food ; so , it's only natural to have its " Giant Gila Monster " leave . It starts off by eating two tasty teenagers , who are trying to enjoy some " submarine races " . The director , Ray Kellogg , seems to have a thing for actors putting their legs up somewhere . Watch for both hero Don Sullivan ( as Chase ) and Sheriff Fred Graham ( as Jeff ) to put their legs up together , in the auto-mechanic shop ( Compton's Garage ) . The characterizations are interesting . Sullivan is an older " influence " on the younger and more rebellious " gang " of teenagers ; and , he has turned from hot-rodder to auto-mechanic . He is supporting his mother and crippled little sister . Sullivan also sings well ; although , his choice of material definitely does NOT rock . Not as much is revealed about Mr . Graham's character ; but , he is refreshingly non-confrontational with the younger cast members . The movie is at least two legs up over awful , and is fun to watch with friends . The Giant Gila Monster ( 1959 ) Ray Kellogg - Don Sullivan , Fred Graham , Shug Fisher
Two Men and a Baby	In " The Painted Desert " of Arizona , William Farnum ( as Bill ' Cash ' Holbrook ) and J . Farrell MacDonald ( as Jeff Cameron ) happen upon an abandoned covered wagon ; in the deserted carriage , they find a baby boy . The chums " adopt " the boy , but argue over what to name him . Each man wants to pass on , through the child , their surname . Mr . Farnum steals away with the tot , who grows several decades , into adult Bill Boyd ( as Bill Holbrook ) . Mr . MacDonald may have lost the boy , but he gained a girl , pretty blonde Helen Twelvetrees ( as Mary Ellen Cameron ) . Ms . Twelvetrees attracts Montana cowboy Clark Gable ( as Rance Brett ) , who helps at the ranch . When Twelvetrees gets a hankerin ' for Mr . Boyd , the spurned Mr . Gable gets jealous . Often described as Gable's first " talkie " , this film might more accurately be described as his first role of consequence . Note , Gable had about as much to say in " Du Barry , Woman of Passion " as in most of his silent films . Farnum , a huge star in the mid-teens , was in the talking " Du Barry " , also . Considering the successful careers had by Farnum , Boyd and Gable , this film is quite disappointing . The dialogue comes out of everyone's mouth like molasses . A little fun to see the stars somewhat dimmer than usual .
Swimsuit Fashions of 1908	Linda Arvidson and Arthur V . Johnson enjoy a romantic rendezvous at the beach ; meanwhile , Charles Inslee escapes from a couple of policemen , who are bringing him to a nearby " Insane Asylum " ; he gets one of the lawmen's guns , and dashes off for the beach . At the beach , Inslee abducts Ms . Arvidson , taking her off in a canoe ( presumably to aid in his escape ) . Will the swimsuit set be able to rescue fair damsel from the clutches of the maniacal Inslee ? D . W . Griffith presents an interesting situation : having a insane criminal " invade " a group of innocent young beachgoers , who are presumably unrelated to the lunatic . Note that , along the way , Inslee accosts a man , serving no other purpose than to exchange the lunatic's gun for a knife . Those looking for Director Griffith to start every genre imaginably might call " Where Breakers Roar " the proto-type " slasher film " ; however , there is no slashing . Mainly , this film is an opportunity to see 1908 swimsuit fashions . Where Breakers Roar ( 1908 ) D . W . Griffith - Arthur V . Johnson , Linda Arvidson , Charles Inslee
A Wedding Blast	Marion Leonard and Charles Inslee are a courting ' couple ; but not everyone is happy with their announced wedding plans - - Herbert Yost had been hoping against hope for Ms . Leonard to changer her mind , and marry him ; instead , she rejects his advances . Unable to face a life without Leonard , Mr . Yost hatches a vengeful plot : at the wedding site , he rigs a gun to blast the happy couple " At the Altar " . Before the blessed event , Mr . Yost composes a confession , and washes down alcohol with poison . Leonard's friend Dorothy West finds the note , but can Yost's hidden gun be discovered in time ? Director D . W . Griffith and company in a real scenery chewer !
Calamity Jane and an Exciting End	Roy Rogers stars as " Young Bill Hickok " , saving California and its gold from wicked invaders like John Miljan ( as Nicholas Tower ) ? against a Civil War back-story ? with references to Abraham Lincoln and John Wilkes Booth . This time George " Gabby " Hayes brings along his niece , none other than Calamity Jane ( well played by Sally Payne ) to assist Mr . Rogers . It's an interesting team-up concept , however unlikely . The film's highlight is its posse / stagecoach chase scene , near the film's end . Rogers and Yakima Canutt - - I assume the stuntman is the stunning Mr . Canutt - - perform well in an exciting man-under-the-stage sequence . That sequence followed one of the typical Rogers songs . Otherwise , this is nothing more than a fair Rogers western . Young Bill Hickok ( 1940 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Sally Payne
It's Only Hit and Run	Honest young insurance agent Ronald Reagan ( as Eric Gregg ) is optimistic , but poor . His wife , scheming Sheila Bromley ( as Nona Gregg ) , longs for the finer things in life . Describing herself as " not weighted down with tons of righteousness , " Ms . Bromley begins to spend more money than Mr . Reagan earns . Bromley obtains the finer things in life , but puts the couple in debt . Bromley is a fun shrew . Handsome Reagan attracts other women , like perky clerk Gloria Blondell ( as Patricia Carmody ) ; but , he doesn't indulge . To pay the bills , Bromley gets tangled up in the insurance fraud racket - which helps get her husband fired . An unemployed Reagan seems to be tempted into a life of crime - will he remain straight up , or get crooked ? Clinton Rosemond has an uncomfortable " broken arm " scene . Accidents Will Happen ( 1938 ) William Clemens - Ronald Reagan , Sheila Bromley , Gloria Blondell
It's Carnival Time for Elvis !	Vagabond singer Elvis Presley ( as Charlie Rogers ) gets a job working at a carnival owned by strong-willed Barbara Stanwyck ( as Maggie Morgan ) . There , after years " playing the field , " Mr . Presley gets the urge to settle down with one woman , pretty Joan Freeman ( as Cathy Lean ) . But , Presley doesn't get along with folks like Ms . Freeman's alcoholic father Leif Erikson ( as Joe Lean ) . After a misunderstanding , Presley leaves his budding " family " , and goes to work for Ms . Stanwyck's sleazy rival , Pat Buttram ( as Harry Carver ) . Will chip-shouldered Presley stay with the bad influence Buttram , or return to stable Stanwyck and sweet Freeman ? The waste of cast and crew involved in this boring film is criminal . The musical highlight is the Leiber / Stoller classic " Little Egypt " ; although Presley lip-syncs lethargically , dancing girl Wilda Taylor is a sight for sore eyes . Presley , who hides a growing paunch and occasionally appears " under the influence , " looks better during the nicely photographed " Big Love , Big Heartache " . The studio mixes of the other songs sound much better on the nicely sequenced " Roustabout " stereo album , especially " Poison Ivy League " , " Roustabout " , and " One Track Heart " . " It's a Wonderful World " received some " Best Song " Oscar buzz . Roustabout ( / 64 ) John Rich - Elvis Presley , Barbara Stanwyck , Joan Freeman
D Minus Three Laughs and Counting	Andrew Gurland's " Cheats " is his fictionalized " true story " about four high school friends who maneuver to cheat on tests . The quartet are : supercilious school-hating Trevor Fehrman ( as Handsome Davis ) , his likewise good-looking pal Matthew Lawrence ( as Victor ) , their chubby school-hating chum Elden Henson ( as Sammy ) , and crooked geekster Martin Starr ( as Applebee ) . The adults include high-strung North Point principal Mary Tyler Moore ( as Mrs . Stark ) and pornography-loving father Griffin Dunne ( as Mr . Davis ) . The high jinks begin with Mr . Fehrman and Mr . Lawrence supposedly urinating on a teacher's grade book . Put this one at the bottom of the pile ; and , be thankful it doesn't go on anyone's permanent record . Cheats ( 2002 ) Andrew Gurland - Trevor Fehrman , Matthew Lawrence , Elden Henson
The Scaffolding of Intruders	Daddy's girls Florence Lawrence and Dorothy West receive some terrific news at the local post office , unaware they are being stalked by burglar Charles Inslee . Meanwhile , father David Miles receives a message ( from young Robert Harron ) which necessitates daddy leaving home ; so , when the young women return , they can be ? home alone . As the vulnerable pair bed down for the evening , the local " Grand Ball of the Black and Tans " gets underway ; and , a dark-skinned drinker portends additional danger for D . W . Griffith's dynamic duo ? Mr . Inslee has one of his better Biograph roles , stealing the film from " The Girls and Daddy " . Ironically , Director Griffith appears as one of the black-faced extras at the " Black and Tans " ball . " Biograph Girls " Lawrence and West are suggestive of later " Griffith Girls " Lillian and Dorothy Gish , especially in " Orphans of the Storm " ( 1921 ) ; and , they are excessively affectionate in bed ! The racist tone is unfortunate , since the story of a burglar redeemed by saving his potential victims from a greater danger , is intriguing . The Girls and Daddy ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - Florence Lawrence , Dorothy West , Charles Inslee
For Wardrobe Watchers	While the American Revolution rages , Owen Moore , " a brave American officer trying to get news of a British attack to General Washington , " leaves home on his mission . He is immediately attacked by German Hessians , working for the British crown . Mr . Moore manages to make it back home , where father James Kirkwood is able to conceal him from the imminent intruders . " The Hessian Renegades " terrify Moore's family , as they try to keep the young soldier hidden . Soon , murder and sexual harassment rock the soldier's family . . . Mary Pickford takes a turn to stand out , among the usual Biograph regulars , by dressing up as a soldier ; not surprisingly , she is a very unconvincing young man ! It's fun to spot director D . W . Griffith's other regulars . This story , aka " 1776 or the Hessian Renegades " isn't one of the director's better early offerings - - however , there are a few highlights . Watch for Mr . Kirkwood to suffer a split pants " wardrobe malfunction " in the last few seconds !
Polecat	News of an oil strike stirs trouble in a western town . Flat broke , Richard Arlen ( as Johnny Maverick ) drives west , picking up , and partnering up , with prospecting hitch-hiker Elisha Cook Jr . ( as " Chicopee " ) . Almost immediately , the two discover oil , on land owned by the country bumpkin " Smithers " family . Mr . Arlen writes John and Martha Smithers a check , to buy their oil-rich land , then schemes to cover its cost . But , old enemy Buster Crabbe ( as Mike Rawlins ) isn't about to let Arlen strike it rich without a fight . Additional arrivals provide further intrigue ( William Frawley ) and love interest ( Arline Judge ) . While " Wildcat " Arlen and many of the supporting cast are pleasant , this is an mostly dull story . An exciting scene occurs early on , which prematurely kills off the film's most endearing , up to that point , character . The tragedy is necessary for subsequent plot developments , which are anticlimactic .
Spencer Tracy Takes Katharine Hepburn in a Bizarre Act of Unnatural Love	Popular political columnist Katharine Hepburn ( as Tess Harding ) guest-stars on a radio program ; and , after muffing a question about " America's National Pastime " ( baseball ) , declares the sport should be abolished . Of course , this irks her " New York Chronicle " colleague , sports columnist Spencer Tracy ( as Sam Craig ) . The two writers begin inking out " World War III " in their respective columns . When Mr . Tracy finally meets Ms . Hepburn's legs , in person ( it's a spacious office building ) , it's love at first sight . But , can Tracy domesticate a feminist-leaning Hepburn ? In their first feature film team-up , Tracy and Hepburn get off to a surprisingly rocky start - the main problem with " Woman of the Year " is its insulting , offensive script , credited to Ring Lardner and Michael Kanin . These writers , along with producer Joseph L . Mankiewicz and director George Stevens , would certainly suggest a better product than what appears on the screen . How is it that Hepburn , a worldly enough woman , knows zilch about baseball ? A early scene , with Hepburn at a Yankees game , would have worked if she , in an aside , revealed she was putting Tracy on - otherwise , the scene belongs to someone like Betty Grable ( or Judy Holliday ) . It is strange to see Hepburn almost get her neck caught in a window cord , and Tracy having trouble closing a refrigerator door - suggesting re-takes may not have been a priority . The very weak ending has Hepburn as a watered-down " Lucy Ricardo " , trying to make breakfast for her man . Tracy , who was somewhat likable ( relatively speaking ) through most of the film , ends with a bizarre violent act . Obviously , the characters played by Hepburn and Tracy should not be married . . . Thankfully , the Tracy Hepburn films got better ? Woman of the Year ( 1942 ) George Stevens - Katharine Hepburn , Spencer Tracy , Fay Bainter
Spanking the Party Girl	Alice White is , indeed , a " Naughty Flirt " . She plays a " wild and crazy party girl " who loves to go out and engage men . One man , a lawyer , resists her advances - so , naturally , she wants him most of all . He spanks her for her naughty ways , and it changes her life ( she tells him he really makes an " impression " ) . She gets herself a job as lawyer Paul Page's secretary and does tough things like clean his inkwell . Myrna Loy is good as a supporting player who wants to set her brother up with wealthy Ms . White . White is an engaging and funny performer , but her character behavior at the end of the film is so dumb it spoils the film . It shows the character has no maturity . If I were Mr . Page , I would shine her on - or , give her another spanking . The Naughty Flirt ( 1931 ) Edward F . Cline - Alice White , Paul Page , Myrna Loy
Pin Pricked	Blond super-hunk Sam Page ( or " Nathan Watkins " / as Chris Chandler ) goes to Drake college , on a swimming scholarship . Stripping down to his gym shorts for a run , Mr . Page catches the eye of blonder super-hunk Bradley Stryker ( as Devon Eisley ) . Mr . Stryker is the leader of Drake's weirdest fraternity ; and , he travels around with good-looking men in sunglasses . Stryker decides he wants Page's perfect body . Page tells super-geek ( but cute ) roommate Josh Hammond ( as Dan Myers ) he isn't interested in joining a fraternity . Then , Page admires Stryker's big fraternity pin , and gets sucked in ? Director David DeCoteau is definitely going after something . Page and Stryker make an interesting couple , especially when they play a " three way " love scene ; note , the female ( " Sandy " ) is incidental . " The Brotherhood " may have worked better if Mr . DeCoteau had either gone all out , or made the " gay subtext " more subtle . The subtle route is often taken by other filmmakers . The " vampire " storyline is more than a little hard to swallow ( if the guys in question are supposed to be vampires ) . The Brotherhood ( 2001 ) David DeCoteau - Sam Page , Bradley Stryker , Josh Hammond
It Takes a Thief	Wealthy Harrison Ford ( as Donald Ransome ) arrives late for a wedding ; there , he makes off with not only a string of pearls , but also lovely Alberta Vaughn ( as Betty ) ' s attention . When the pearls are discovered missing , Mr . Ford uses Ms . Vaughn as an unwitting accomplice ; he stashes the necklace in her belongings , to retrieve at a later date . But , Vaughn is engaged to Tyrell Davis ( as Ronnie Courtney ) , who becomes jealous of Ford . When Ford goes to retrieve the stolen pearls from Vaughn , comic complications ensue . Most notable as silent star Harrison Ford's last film appearance . In his only speaking role , Ford's voice is serviceable ; but , he seems uncomfortable with the talking picture . Vaughn and Davis are more natural . No matter , director Frank Strayer's " Love in High Gear " never really takes off , in any case . Love in High Gear ( 1932 ) Frank Strayer - Harrison Ford , Alberta Vaughn , Tyrell Davis
Gordon's Island : A Racial Microcosm of Society	" A scientist on an island is working on a project , to help with the world population problem , ( he ) accidentally creates giant shrews that escape his lab and devour every animal on the island . With nothing else to eat , the giant shrews set their sights on the compound of scientists and their guests . Led by Captain Thorne Sherman , the group must make a break for his ship to escape from the ravenous shrews , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Taking refuge from an approaching hurricane , handsome skipper James Best ( as Thorne Sherman ) surely regrets sharing an island with GIANT , multiplying KILLER SHREWS ; but , Swedish blonde Ingrid Goude ( as Ann Craigis ) makes the scenery beautiful , at least . Ken Curtis ( as Jerry Farrell ) doesn't like losing the chance to knock boots with pretty Ms . Goude ; and he doesn't agree with the others ' shrew-survival plans , either . This is a surprisingly well-paced low budget horror . The claustrophobic barricading scenes are reminiscent , in hindsight ( obviously ) , of superior films , like Alfred Hitchcock's " The Birds " and George Romero's " Night of the Living Dead " ; and , parts also seem like Ron Underwood's terrific " Tremors " . If you don't pay too much attention , the story progression is logical enough . If a genre for " awful low budget 1950s horror ' were considered , " The Killer Shrews " might be one of the best . Unfortunately , " The Killer Shrews " is rather despicably , and transparently , racist . It was produced by Ken Curtis and Gordon McLendon , who also co-starred . It's difficult to believe neither they nor writer Jay Simms , nor director Ray Kellogg weren't aware how their " fat Negro " and " fat Hispanic " characters were being depicted . Someone ? ANYONE ? It's also sexist , of course ; but , beautiful women fare better . The film is entertaining in ways perhaps unintended ; and , it is interesting in comparison with films like " Night of the Living Dead " . The Killer Shrews ( 1959 ) Ray Kellogg - James Best , Ken Curtis , Ingrid Goude
Losing Some of its Zipper	Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello witness the invasion of their beach - by a troupe of " Muscle Men " being trained by Don Rickles ( as Jack Fanny ) . Buddy Hackett ( as S . Z . Matts ) wants " Muscle Man " Peter Lupus ( using the name Rock Stevens ) for his wealthy client Luciana Paluzzi ( as Judy ) , but she gets a hankerin ' for Frankie . . . The soundtrack songs are a highlight , appropriately sounding like Brian Wilson's Beach Boys ; moreover , Frankie and Annette are joined by Dick Dale and Stevie Wonder . Morey Amsterdam should have been retained as a series regular . The Eric Von Zipper motorcycle gang is missing . The regular players are still fresh , but the elements are not up to par , relatively speaking . It's a fair " Beach Party " film ; obviously , it's not as good as the first . Muscle Beach Party ( 1964 ) William Asher - Frankie Avalon , Annette Funicello , Don Rickles
Champagne and Bullets	Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) trick Reese ( Neville Brand ) into volunteering for a " special assignment " - cleaning out the stable . Then , Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) lets Chad and Joe go out on the more desirable task of securing an army payroll . After Chad and Joe lose the payroll to French soldiers , Reese joins them in fighting for its recovery . His fellow Rangers dupe Reese into believing that , following the mission , he is to receive the " Governor's Gold Medal " , for bravery . . . This episode is strong on characterization , but sloppily staged . Lardeo - A Medal for Reese ( / 65 ) Lawrence Dobkin - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
How to Catch a Drunken Indian	In the series premiere , Native American Indians terrorize the town of Presidio , stealing the people's supply of liquor . Meanwhile , back in Laredo , gullible Neville Brand ( as Reese Bennett ) is tricked into entering a bullfight , by handsome Texas rangers Peter Brown ( as Chad Cooper ) and William Smith ( as Joe Riley ) , who take bets on the victor . After some silliness , ranger boss Philip Carey ( as Capt . Parmalee ) sends the trio undercover , as gold prospectors , to catch the Indian " Lazyfoot " , and his tribe . Mr . Carey surmises the Indians will be easy to catch , as they will be drunk on their stolen booty . In Presidio , the trio meet old prospector Burgess Meredith ( as Grubby ) , and hip-swinging saloon proprietor Beverly Garland ( as Aggie ) . Excited about a claim , Mr . Meredith invites the undercover lawmen to partner up . Chad and Joe want to go along , for the money , but Reese vetoes the idea . To get rid of Reese ( temporarily ) , Chad and Joe pretend he is the wanted sheep rustler " Jack Kendall " . After Reese is jailed , Chad and Joe head out prospecting . Instead of gold , they find " Lazyfoot " and his boozing Indians to be more surefooted than expected . The lighthearted camaraderie between stars Neville Brand , Peter Brown , and William Smith is what really sustains the episode and , more or less , the series . For the climax , Brown and Smith are stripped of their shirts , and tied to the ground ; obviously , this is done to show off their admirable physiques . Unfortunately , Native Americans are not only stereotypical in manner , but also laughable in appearance . " Laredo " was piloted in an earlier edition of " The Virginian " . Laredo - Lazyfoot , Where Are You ? ( / 65 ) Paul Stanley - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
What Made Laredo Famous ( Has Made a Loser Out Of Me )	Chad ( Peter Brown ) , Joe ( William Smith ) , and Reese ( Neville Brand ) are joined by new Ranger Claude Akins ( as Cotton " Buck " Buckmeister ) . The quartet are sent out to round up illegal still-operator Dub Taylor ( as Dude Meeker ) . They try to give Mr . Taylor some time to escape , because Laredo has a new judge in town . Judge John Hoyt ( as " Limit of the Law Larkin " ) is a prohibitionist who hands out the toughest sentences possible . Later , the judge has Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) send Chad , Joe , and Mr . Akins on a dangerous mission transporting a box of legal documents to nearby Uvalde . This is the first of several episodes featuring semi-regular Claude Akins . Like George Kennedy in a previous episode , his character seems like a " replacement " for Neville Brand . Mr . Akins does quite well in his part-time Ranger role . Mr . Brand , who does appear , seems unwell , probably due to alcohol consumption . Ironically , this is most apparent when the prohibitionist Judge tells the " Laredo " group he doesn't feel Brand is competent enough to go on the episode's mission ; and , " Reese " is left to mind the office . Brand is better in an earlier courtroom scene . Joan Marshall ( as Ivy Vine ) is an attractive distraction . Laredo - Limit of the Law Larkin ( / 66 ) William Witney - Peter Brown , William Smith , Claude Akins
Don't Even Try	Playboy lawyer Preston Foster ( as Jimmy Hughes ) is reluctantly recruited to run against an incumbent mayor , while romancing his daughter , pretty blonde Joan Fontaine ( as Trudy Olson ) . The campaign leads to the uncovering of a gang of racketeering gamblers in the city , with both mayoral candidates , and the city police chief , becoming suspects . " You Can't Beat Love " is a competent , but routine little piece of fluff , which looks to have benefited few of those involved . There are a few likable moments . Thankfully , it was as forgettable as it was routine . You Can't Beat Love ( 1937 ) Christy Cabanne - Preston Foster , Joan Fontaine , Herbert Mundin
Rounding Up Illegal Mexicans	It's " Alamo Day " in Texas . After increased illegal border crossings , Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) sends Reese ( Neville Brand ) , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Joe ( William Smith ) out to round-up intruding Mexicans , and sent them home for the holiday . Arriving in the town of Porfirio , Chad and Joe face brown-faced James Farentino ( as Paco ) and his bandits . Meanwhile , Reese has confronted older Mexican John Marley ( as Alvar de Aveles ) , who has offended townspeople by flying his country's flag . Taking Reese hostage , Mr . Farentino's gang heads for the border , with Chad and Joe in hot pursuit ? This episode features a very tedious location footage trek ; probably , it was meant to please viewers watching " ? IN LIVING COLOR , on NBC ! " Farentino ( not a Mexican in real life ) does very well as the villainous " Paco " . Marley's supporting character , a proud and " sympathetic " Mexican , comes across well , also . Look for James Doohan ( as Mike Pripton ) in a pre - " Star Trek " bit part . Unfortunately , the interesting cast can't raise the story above ordinary . Laredo - I See by Your Outfit ( / 65 ) Harvey Hart - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , James Farentino
Madhouse is for Laughter .	Vincent Price ( as Paul Toombes ) is at it again ! He's a old time horror movie star on the comeback trail ; his attempt is , however , being thwarted by a series of horrific murders . Naturally , Mr . Price ( aka " Dr . Death " ) is a prime suspect . Along for the movie ride are Peter Cushing ( as writer Herbert Flay ) and Robert Quarry ( as producer Oliver Quayle ) . Another interesting , but failed , follow-up to Price's successful " The Abominable Dr . Phibes " ( 1971 ) . The promising team-up of horror maestros Vincent Price and Peter Cushing , with Robert Quarry , in a " Madhouse " is decidedly anti-climatic - in fact , the stars are not at all well-served . The film is cheap ; and , the story inferior and predictable . Some of the scenes are laughable instead of horrifying - the bed crushing apparatus looks very tacky when it comes down the second time , for example . Don't expect much from this " Madhouse " . Madhouse ( 1974 ) Jim Clark - Vincent Price , Peter Cushing , Robert Quarry
Season Ending Silliness	Veteran inventor Charlie Ruggles ( as John Cane ) is able to open a jammed bank vault , which attracts unsavory Noah Berry ( as Ezekiel Fry ) and pal Robert Yuro ( as Sebastian " Sab " Melendez ) . The dastardly duo want Mr . Ruggles to help them rob banks . Ruggles declines , of course . To help him change is mind , Mr . Berry has his gang kidnap Reese ( Neville Brand ) , who is a good friend of Ruggles . But , Reese has good friends , too , like Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) . This , the last show aired during the first season of " Laredo " , is a very silly story , with a good guest cast ( including the dog ) . Laredo - A Taste of Money ( / 66 ) William Witney - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
Too Many Crooks	Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) want a couple of days off to rest , but Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) sends the two Rangers out to stop the " Ramirez Gang " from terrorizing the nearby town of Guarded Wells . After killing off Ramirez , Chad and Joe are rewarded with liquor and women ; of particular appeal , to Chad , is curvaceous blonde Mimsy Farmer ( as Lorrie Thatcher ) . Ms . Farmer and grandfather George Chandler tell Chad about " The Calico Kid " , a legendary outlaw . In order to stay in Guarded Wells , and continue soaking up local color , Chad informs Parmalee about the imaginary arrival of " The Calico Kid " . Smelling a rat , Parmalee rounds up Reese ( Neville Brand , in a noticeably lightened workload ) to investigate . . . Laredo - The Calico Kid ( / 66 ) Lawrence Dobkin - Peter Brown , William Smith , Neville Brand
The Spaniard That Lighted My Life	Through 1906 , the proud Vasquez family has prospered in San Francisco ; it is the land the Spanish family helped conquer , and settle . The sweetest rose in the Vasquez Rancho's fair garden is dreamy Dolores Costello ( as Dolores Vasquez ) . Senorita Costello catches the eye , and heart , of Irish gentleman Charles Emmett Mack ( as Terrence O'Shaughnessy ) , a business acquaintance distrusted by patriarch Josef Swickard ( as Don Hernandez de Vasquez ) . Mr . Swickard wants his grand-daughter to marry another Spaniard , preferably a rich one . Then , cruel and crafty Warner Oland ( as Chris Buckwell ) and his Chinese " Mongol " gang threaten Dolores ' life , liberty , and pursuit of happiness . A relatively well-produced Darryl F . Zanuck silent . The time and place of " Old San Francisco " gives away the ending ; of course , it's the great 1906 earthquake . Photographer Hal Mohr and director Alan Crosland collaborate for some nice images ; for example , the shadowy Oland / Mack fight , and Chinatown's underground labyrinth . Supporting player Anna May Wong barely appears ; but , Angelo Rossita is cute as a caged dwarf related to the villainous Mr . Oland . Unfortunately , the story wavers between ludicrous and despicable . If it weren't all so silly , it might have been even more offensive .
The Kid Stays in the Picture	Reese ( Neville Brand ) , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Joe ( William Smith ) are to bring in wounded bank robber Jack Kelly ( as Lance Mabry ) , but find it difficult after meeting his perky pigtailed daughter , Gina Gillespie ( as Kim " Missy " Mabry ) . This is the obligatory " outlaw with a cute kid " episode ( and , it was Easter time , after all ) . Unfortunately , it is a noticeably sloppy production . Kids do help with characterization , and the Rangers react accordingly . The script experiments with an out of the blue " point-of-view " flashback , with Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) speculating about how events unfolded . At least , each member of the " Laredo " cast is utilized . Laredo - The Deadliest Kid in the West ( / 66 ) Leon Benson - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
" High Noon " minus Forty-Five Minutes	Reese ( Neville Brand ) plans an anniversary celebration for Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) , who has been leading the Rangers of Company B for four ( or three ) years . While Reese lines up some dancing girls , Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) get the whiskey . Unfortunately , the men have difficulties finding someone to bake the cake . Even worse , a mysterious man from Capt . Parmalee's past , Lee Van Cleef ( as " Big Mike Kelly " aka Fallon ) , challenges him to a " High Noon " duel at 11 : 15 . The comedy highlight should have been Reese baking the captain's cake , with Joe assisting ; but , it falls flat . Guest starring villain Lee Van Cleef served a similar role in the classic " High Noon " . This episode falls at least forty-five minutes short of the original . It isn't much , but Mr . Carey gets a larger than usual role in the episode's action . Laredo - Quarter Past Eleven ( / 66 ) Irving J . Moore - Neville Brand , Philip Carey , Lee Van Cleef
Breaking the Habit	Reese ( Neville Brand ) , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Joe ( William Smith ) , argue about volunteering as escort for two of the Governor's friends . The Rangers are excited to help , when Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) reveals they are two French sisters . However , the women turn out to be nuns Barbara Rush ( as Sister Williams ) and Kristina Holland ( as Sister Joan of Arc ) . The holy twosome want to re-open an old mission , but get into trouble with some nasty Comanches . Despite the danger , the nuns insist on doing God's work , with Chad and Joe chastely watching over them . Reese does not stick around , after his opening scenes . The sisters manage to get some of the " Red Men " out of their Teepees and into the Church . Later , the facility is revealed to be where the " Ford Gang " has stashed some booty , leading to a Comanche / Ranger team-up . Later , Ms . Rush shed her habit to become a regular on " Peyton Place " , and Ms . Holland got a job as Bill Bixby's secretary on " The Courtship of Eddie's Father " . Laredo - Miracle at Massacre Mission ( / 66 ) Bernard McEveety - Peter Brown , William Smith , Barbara Rush
Chad Hears Wedding Bells	Chad ( Peter Brown ) ' s demeanor worries Reese ( Neville Brand ) and Joe ( William Smith ) ; they think he's fallen under the spell of a blonde , or red-haired woman . As it turns out , she's Myrna Fahey ( as Emily Henderson ) , a busty brunette beauty . Ms . Fahey , Chad's old girlfriend , has arrived in Laredo with her father , David Brian ( as Theo Henderson ) , a railroad construction manager . As Reese and Joe feared , their partner has fallen in love . Soon , Chad gives Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) his resignation ; then , he heads off for wedded life , and a job working on his fiancée's father's railroad . This is a fairly routine and necessarily predictable episode . Chad's misjudgment of the woman's character is surprising , since he seems to have known her well , previously . Still , she was lovely , and came with the hefty promise of $400 . 00 per month . In the end , the bond between the three Rangers is nicely solidified . Laredo - Three's Company ( / 65 ) Bernard McEveety - Peter Brown , Neville Brand , William Smith
Rampaging the Viperous French Nobility	During the French Revolution , wealthy couple Arthur Johnson and Marion Leonard are among the citizens spared , from the rampaging mobs , by professing Republican beliefs . Nobleman Frank Powell flees from murderous lower class Frenchmen ; arriving at Mr . Johnson and Ms . Leonard's safe Republican-leaning home , he begs for safe haven . Johnson agrees to help the desperate Noble , and he allows Powell to stay in his home , disguised as a servant . " In spite of the aristocrats seemingly Republican sentiments , the insurrectionists , with the cry , ' Give us bread ' , ransack the house . " Still , Powell is spared . Remaining on , he reveals himself a traitor , by attacking his savior's desirous wife , Ms . Leonard . After Johnson discovers he is " Nursing a Viper " , what terrible revenge might he seek ? Nobility is viperous in this " Story of the French Revolution " from director D . W . Griffith . Note that wife Leonard wears an especially HUGE cross , which is no help in deterring the lecherous Powell ; obviously , he is going for the less bloody sort of necking ! The French peasants are shown to be particularly bloody in this one , of several , Griffith visits to the French Revolutionary period . The screen suggests much murdering , raping , and decapitating of the French Noble class .
Foggy Murder Mystery	" Residents and visitors of the Soho district in London are terrified due to a series of brutal murders near a prominent nightclub . A killer wearing a horrifying skull mask and golden gloves has been murdering patrons of the Sansibar . Scotland Yard is desperate to discover the secret behind the murders and find the killer before another victim falls at his hands , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Scotland Yard inspector Dieter Borsche ( as Hugh Patton ) is unexpectedly accompanied , in sleuthing , by murder mystery novelist Barbara Rutting ( as Clarinda Smith ) . Ms . Rütting believes she can unmask the " Phantom of Soho " before the police . Mr . Borsche is assisted by humorless Peter Sellers look-alike Peter Vogel ( as Hallam ) . Director Gottlieb fails to make it very interesting , with some " arty " camera placements . Das Phantom von Soho ( 1964 ) Franz Josef Gottlieb - Dieter Borsche , Barbara Rütting , Peter Vogel
Father Confusion	" A British girl is traveling with her estranged father in order to attempt to rebuild their relationship . Shortly after they arrive in East Germany , the girl begins to suffer from strange sensations and mental lapses , where she remembers events from World War II that she could never have experienced herself . Is this a case of mental breakdown , is it possible memories from a past life , or is she dealing with a rip in the fabric of time and she is actually experiencing the events for real ? " asks the DVD sleeve's synopsis . James Dearden's " The Cold Room " opens with the telling definition : " Possession : psychological state in which an individual personality is replaced by another . " In this case , possession can also be mind-numbingly dull . When she throws up her milk , you'll know ill-tempered Amanda Pays ( as Carla Martin ) is becoming Nazi-era rape victim " Christa Bruckner " . Her father , George Segal ( as Hugh Martin ) , wants to bridge the generation gap , as Ms . Pays goes mad . Pretty , model-like Pays has some serious father problems . Anthony Higgins ( as Erich ) has a good supporting role . The Cold Room ( 1984 ) James Dearden - Amanda Pays , George Segal , Anthony Higgins
Who Is Killing the Cast of Laredo ?	A serial killer is loose in Laredo , which sets Reese ( Neville Brand ) , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) sleuthing . Joe ( William Smith ) is a suspect , having suffered gambling loses to Harry Lauter ( as Spence Gillis ) , an early victim . A more likely suspect may be John Carradine ( as Professor Paracelsus Smythe ) , who arrives with his " Traveling Museum of Horrors " . Soon , suspicions fall mainly in Irishman Tom Simcox ( as Shamus McCloud ) , in town to meet his dead brother . But , as the bodies pile up , temple-scarred doctor DeForest Kelly ( as David Ingram ) moves up the suspect list . Could it be beautiful blonde Laraine Stephens ( as Barbara Halsey ) , or couldn't it ? The clue about each murder being accompanied by a strange sound gives the episode its title . The strange sounds , illustrated by a weird special effect , are annoying indeed . This is an unconvincing novelty episode . Soon after this appearance , Mr . Kelly found a " Wagon Train " to the stars ( " Star Trek " ) . Laredo - Sound of Terror ( / 66 ) William Witney - Tom Simcox , DeForest Kelly , John Carradine
Accent on Alan Napier	Captain Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) takes the Rangers out to police a nearby homesteaders land giveaway . The Laredo quartet check in with Fred Clark ( as Commissioner Smoot ) , who will administrate the proceedings , in Fort Hall . While waiting for the " land rush " to begin , Chad ( Peter Brown ) romances shapely brunette widow Audrey Dalton ( as Alice Coverly ) ; and , Reese ( Neville Brand ) entertains the homesteaders ' children , including Ms . Dalton's son Keith Jones ( as Robert Coverly ) . Joe ( William Smith ) tries to keep his pals focused on their job . Grandfatherly uniformed Alan Napier ( as Major Donaldson ) steals the show . The lucky TV antenna would soon point Mr . Napier in Batman's direction , where he would memorably run stately Wayne Manor , as Bruce's butler " Alfred " . Young Mr . Jones gives Reese a good lesson on Indians . This episode's story is misshapen on several levels , unfortunately . For example , the thugs who want to cheat during the " land rush " get around so quickly , it was unnecessary for them to break the rules . And , the charming Coverly family certainly features an odd progression of British accents . Laredo - The Land Grabbers ( / 65 ) R . G . Springsteen - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , William Smith
Reese's Gold	Reese ( Neville Brand ) is called in for praise , and assigned a solo mission , by Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) ; he is to transport a special , secret shipment from St . Louis to Laredo . Reese suspects it's an important shipment of gold , and brags to Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) , in the saloon . Their conversation is overheard ; causing several gold-diggers to threaten Reese's mission - - including : sweet talking Jeanette Nolan ( as Ma Burns ) , corrupt Sheriff ( as Wes Cottrell ) , old timer Arthur Hunnicutt , and gun-slinger Tom Reese ( as Tom Baker ) . This episode is the first to focus almost exclusively on one character ; in this case , Mr . Brand's Reese . An opening scene includes the three rangers , and some stock footage appears toward the end . Mr . Brown's " Chad " has a good scene , near the end . Understandably , the " Laredo " team spirit is subdued . Ms . Nolan's scheming turn as " Muriel Beauregard " is the strongest of a notable guest roster . Laredo - The Golden Trail ( / 65 ) Earl Bellamy - Neville Brand , Jeanette Nolan , Philip Carey
Everyone is Out of Their Tree	Woman ( Miriam Hopkins as Virginia ) chases Man ( Joel McCrea as Kenneth ) for father ( Charles Winninger as B . J . ) . Woman wants to get Man to invest some of deceased mother's money in father's business venture ; but , father is notorious for losing money on hair-brained schemes . Little does anyone know , but real evil schemers are posing as Man's best friends in order to steal his fortune . . . The production looks engaging , but the story fails to engage . The players don't play drunk well . Notable as Broderick Crawford's first appearance as gopher " Hunk " ; other than running errands , Mr . Crawford gets pinned to the floor by Mr . McCrea . Woman Chases Man ( 1937 ) John G . Blystone - Miriam Hopkins , Joel McCrea , Charles Winninger
Two Tribes Go to War	" A hydra is threatening the countryside and the people are terrified for their lives . The people's only hope of survival rests with Maxus , a powerful man who has the strength of many men . Before Maxus can battle the multi-headed monster , he must face other challenges in order to prove himself worthy and to prepare for the fateful battle , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Actually , the story mainly involves a struggle between two pre-historic tribes : the " Good " or " Sun " worshipers , and the " Bad " or " Moon " worshipers . The " Sun " tribe of Nomads has decided to settle and live in peace ; but , they pick land claimed by nearby " Moon " worshiping Cavemen . Bodybuilder Reg Lewis ( as Maciste , or Maxus in English ) does not belong to any tribe ; however , he bonds with " Sun " leader Luciano Marin ( as Idar ) , after saving him ( and his woman ) from a sea monster . The plot thickens when Mr . Lewis and " Moon " tribe woman Margaret Lee ( as Moah ) fall in love . In English , misleadingly reproduced as " Fire Monsters Against the Son of Hercules " ( ) . The English dubbing is dreadful ; in a couple of scenes , two completely different voices dub Lewis . The bleached-blond muscleman throws cavemen around , and poses . Mr . Marin essays his part better than others ; but , considering the shoddiness of the production , it's a wasted effort . The best part of the movie is the added-on TV theme song , " The ( Mighty ) Sons of Hercules " .
Huntz Hall Gets it in The End	Bernard Gorcey ( as Louie Dumbrowsky ) ' s " Ice Cream Parlor " gets held-up , as leader Leo Gorcey ( as Slip Mahoney ) and " The Bowery Boys " come in for banana splits . Amusingly , Huntz Hall ( as Horace Debussy " Sach " Jones ) defends the older Gorcey , and gets hit on his head with the robber's pistol . Strangely , the gun doesn't hurt Mr . Hall . After a trip to the doctor , the " scientific seduction " is that Hall's " square head " has developed super-human thickness , due to calcium deposits . This diagnosis doesn't make much sense , considering later events , but , anyway ? Mr . Gorcey's " Slip " sees a $1 , 000 wrestling contest as easy money , due to Hall's impervious hard-head . So , Hall is recruited into the ring . But , Hall's power has an unpredictable limitation - it travels to other body parts , without notice . Having little to say or do , David " Condon " Gorcey ( as Chuck ) and Benny " Bennie " Bartlett ( as Butch ) appear only to make " The Bowery Boys " still seem like a group . At a party , Hall tells Sandra Gould , " You better take that harmonica out of your mouth . " By then , you may have forgotten what " No Holds Barred " is about . No Holds Barred ( / 52 ) William Beaudine - Huntz Hall , Leo Gorcey , Bernard Gorcey
Next !	Charlie Chaplin responds to open auditions at Lodestone Studios . Rival Ben Turpin arrives at the same studio , obviously another unemployed comedian ! Turpin tries to horn in on Chaplin's action after the studio head hollers , " Next ! " Chaplin manages to walk in over Turpin , however . Charlie amusingly manages to botch jobs as an actor and carpenter . In the end , he manages to get a big break , but will a star be born ? There are a lot of jokes involving the buttocks . The initial scene involving slapstick from Chaplin and Turpin is a relative highlight . Note that Gloria Swanson is the typist in the far background left on your screen , in the film's opening . Agnes Ayres also appears . His New Job ( 1915 ) Charles Chaplin - Charlie Chaplin , Ben Turpin , Charlotte Mineau
Lovely Rita	While Tex Ritter ( as Tex Masters ) sings " Down the Colorado Trail " , accompanied by harmonica-playing sidekick Horace Murphy ( as Lucky ) , pretty government agent Rita Hayworth ( as Carmen Serano ) is sent out to investigate a series of mysterious rodeo deaths . Ms . Hayworth and Mr . Ritter cross paths in Middletown Valley , where Ritter is looking for the gang that killed his brother . Undercover girl Hayworth and singing cowboy Ritter are the main attractions . Hayworth and Hank Worden have a couple of smooth dance numbers . Ritter's " Down the Colorado Trail " and " I'm Bound to Leave Ol ' Texas Now " are highlights ; the latter ballad is especially nice . The " Trouble in Texas " is , most obviously , its poorly edited " rodeo footage " . It might have , otherwise , been a better movie .
Donna the Prima Donna	Donna ( Donna Reed ) and the other mothers in the audience are moved to tears by Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) ' s " Freshman Class Essay Contest " speech on " The most beautiful word in the English language , Mother . " Brother Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) notes , " She's really pouring it on . " And , father Alex ( Carl Betz ) feels under-appreciated . When Donna's reputation as a " super-mom " becomes the talk of the town , Alex begins to wonder about his worth . So , Donna turns Alex's birthday party into an homage to father Stone . A pre - " Green Acres " Alvy Moore appears as reporter " Hank Cole " of the " Daily Sentinel " , desiring to do a human interest story on Donna , " the modern woman , " and get a shot of her in a bathing suit . The Male Ego ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Shelley Fabares
Lloyd Goes West	Two-Gun Gussie ( 1918 ) Alf Goulding - Harold Lloyd , William Blasdell , ' Snub ' Pollard A successful pianist , Harold Lloyd goes west , where he is less appreciated , to tickle the ivories at the " Howling Poodle Tango Bar " . There , dastardly gunslinger William Blasdell ( as Dagger-Tooth Dan ) makes Mr . Lloyd's life difficult ; he steals Lloyd's earnings and makes time with Bebe Daniels . Then , to avoid the attentions of sheriff Charles Stevenson ( as Whooping-Cough Charlie ) , he infers Lloyd is the tough " Two-Gun Gussie " . The funnier film moments follow , with Lloyd pretending to be a fearless hombre . " Snub " Pollard is good , as the bartender .
Donna and Jeff Take a Hike	Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) is excited about going on an overnight camping trip with some of the neighborhood boys , which father Alex ( Carl Betz ) will supervise . At the same time , Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) is planning to spend her weekend at a girlfriend's house . Jeff is looking forward to " roughing it " while sister Mary and her friends " giggle all night . " Donna ( Donna Reed ) provides extra blankets for the boys , and lends Mary her overnight bag . When doctor Alex is called to emergency duty at the hospital , and must cancel the hike , Donna volunteers to supervise the boys . Alex fears " a male world and a female world " won't mix , but Donna reminds him , " I was once a girl scout . " Not much happens . The writing credits ( Jay Sommers and Don Nelson ) suggest this script might have began its life as a possible " Ozzie and Harriet " adventure - but , Harriet would have likely nixed it and / or Rick and his friends were , by 1958 , too old to require adult supervision under a camping tent . First appearance of Jeff's pals Scotty Morrow and Stephen Pearson . The Hike ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Paul Peterson
Not Tonight , I have a Headache	June Allyson is not naughty enough for her husband , so he goes for Joan Collins , who has a roving eye of her own . They have to decide , in the end , which twosome is preferable . What seems like a million other characters move in and out of the story , all focused around Ms . Allyson . Some of the characters are interesting and recognizable , some are not ? all become tiresome , eventually . It does sound , like others have commented , that Doris Day sings one of Allyson's songs ( early-ish in the movie ) . I've been watching TCM's tribute to Allyson , and some of these films are strange indeed ! It's nice of TCM to show them , though . Allyson often wears something to match her lipstick . Ms . Collins likes to smoke in her bathtubs . The Opposite Sex ( 1956 ) David Miller - June Allyson , Joan Collins , Dolores Gray
Sealed with a Kiss	Early film directed by D . W . Griffith ; it features a gloriously happy King ( Arthur V . Johnson ) and his Queen ( Marion Leonard ) - but , wait ! When the King leaves the scene , his Queen makes music with the palace's Minstrel ( Henry B . Walthall ) . When the King discovers the lovers , he decides to enact a horrific Edgar Allen Poe-type revenge . It's difficult to believe the lovers can't hear those plotting against them ; although the actors are trying to look alternately noisy ( the lovers ) and quiet ( the cement mixers ) . The sets make " The Sealed Room " look very staged . The performances are okay , and the story is easy to follow . The Sealed Room ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - Arthur V . Johnson , Henry B . Walthall , Marion Leonard
Donna Takes it on the Chin	Donna is practicing to play " Nora " for an amateur production of Ibsen's " A Doll's House " - and , she's obviously awful . The family Stone is dumbfounded . Alex ( Carl Betz ) suggests Donna cut her lines , which snobbish director Mary Shipp ( as Lydia Langley ) has already done . Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) says her mother " has a lot of nerve , " and Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) thinks she shouldn't emote so much . Director Shipp wants Donna's part . Later , Jeff comes home from school with a black eye . Donna scolds him for fighting , but he got the shiner from Shipp's son , Kim Charney ( as Charles " Chunky " Langley ) , because the lad said Donna was , " as an actress ? strictly from hunger . " When Donna finds out , she decides to teach Jeff how to box . Oops . Jeff socks Donna in the chin , and gives " Chunky " a bloody nose . When Alex tries to administer first aid , he gets a black eye , too . Pardon My Gloves ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Paul Peterson
Dennis Down Under	In the mid 1800s , Irishman Dennis Hopper ( as Daniel Morgan ) emigrates to Australia , seeking a share of the continent's gold . Instead , Mr . Hopper finds himself branded , and thrown in a torturous prison ; there , he is gang-raped . Upon release , Hopper hooks up with aborigine David Gulpilil ( as Billy ) , with whom he seeks revenge upon sadistic Bill Hunter ( as Sergeant Smith ) , Jack Thompson ( as Detective Mainwaring ) , and others . Eventually , vengeance becomes heroism ; Hopper is admired and assisted by the common people , and hunted by corrupt and powerful authorities . Hopper's " scarcely human " performance certainly fits the disjointed feel of the film . Mr . Gulpilil heads up a strong supporting cast . The personnel involved in " Mad Dog Morgan " make it not only worth a look , but also a huge disappointment . Mad Dog Morgan ( 1976 ) Philippe Mora - Dennis Hopper , David Gulpilil , Bill Hunter
UFO No Show	" A flight wing of the Air Force has been experiencing difficulties with some of its aircraft so as a test they send aloft a jet with a four man crew . Once airborne , the jet picks up three mysterious objects on radar and when two interceptors are sent to investigate , they mysteriously disappear , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . While Air Force Col . Glenn Ford ( as Pete Moore ) and his men try to investigate events surrounding the UFO sighting , US government officials move to cover-up the incident . Mustached David Soul ( as Roy Bishop ) heads a cast of familiar and likable TV actors , in a TV movie . One is not as familiar as the rest : " Dark Shadows " star James Storm is partially obscured by a dark cap ; he is manning the " Digger Control " that diverts Mr . Soul's plane .
Robbing the Reverend	Arthur V . Johnson ( as Reverend John Stanton ) is a " good shepherd " minister ; he interrupts a sermon to rescue a mother's son from a drunken party , and returns to praise the Lord . While some ministers pass around collection plates , Mr . Johnson reaches into his pocket to give an offering to needy bums . Enter Stephanie Longfellow ( as Mary Rollins ) ; she is in cahoots with thieves Frank Powell and Henry B . Walthall - - the three are going to disobey the commandment " Thou Shalt Not Steal " in earnest , by robbing Preacher Stanton ! But , Mr . Johnson feels an urge for Ms . Longfellow , and she gets an itch to repent . Predictable .
A Flower from Mary Pickford	Crippled violinist David Miles ( as Filippo ) is very much taken with lovely young Mary Pickford ( as Giannina Ferrari ) ; when she tosses him a flower , he lovingly places it in a special vase . Ms . Pickford is rather free with her flowers , however , and also has one for Mr . Miles ' dashing friend Owen Moore ( as Sandro ) ; for Mr . Moore , Pickford includes an amorous " come hither " look . The residents of Cremona are apparently violin enthusiasts ; Miles and Moore enter a contest to see which man can make the best violin in town . The prizes are a gold chain and ? Mary Pickford's hand in marriage , allowed by her father Herbert Prior ( as Taddeo Ferrari ) ! Who will the winner be ? Interesting as an early co-starring role for Pickford ; with a few exceptions , she is not as impressive in her early film roles as might be expected after viewing her later , sometimes exceptional , performances . Pickford's best moment is her repulsion when she realizes the " lame " Miles will enter the contest to win her hand in marriage , obviously because he is disabled ! Miles is the real star of this D . W . Griffith film ; given the best role , he gives the most interesting performance . A hundred years later , you can finally call " The Violin Maker of Cremona " lame . The Violin Maker of Cremona ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - David Miles , Mary Pickford , Owen Moore
A Date with George Hamilton	Mary is feeling jittery , before a date with young George Hamilton ( as Herbie Shields ) . Donna reassures her about the older boy , who is " two classes ahead " of Mary . When Jeff understands his sister will be all alone with Mr . Hamilton , he says , " Have fun ! " After Mary's date with Hamilton goes badly , she comes home in tears . So , Donna tells her about her own first date with Alex ? Then , in flashback , Donna nervously meets Alex , for an initial " New Year's Eve " date . . . The flashback sequences are not at all convincing . And , it's strange to see her patents push Mary out to a drive-in movie with a visibly weird young man " two classes ahead " of Mary ( and , he looks even older ) . Most other parents would have locked Mary in her room for the evening . If Alfred Hitchcock saw Mr . Hamilton's appearance in this episode , we might have had a different " Psycho " - and a different career for Mr . Hamilton . He turns out to be a nice guy , though . Have Fun ( / 59 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Shelley Fabares , George Hamilton
The Silent Treatment	Hans Conried ( as Popkin ) arrives , with his ailing son . But , Mr . Conried can't afford the $100 treatments Alex ( Carl Betz ) recommends . And , he won't take charity , calling it , " The most insidious obligation of all . " In order to help the poor man out , Donna ( Donna Reed ) hires him as a part-time handyman , with disastrous results . However , Donna thinks Conried has a talent for making toys , and tries to get them displayed in Richard Deacon's toy store . Peddler Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) and shill Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) try to sell Conried's toy rabbits , but get in trouble with the law ? A good cast , in an ordinary episode . Robert " Bobby " Crawford looks like brother Johnny ( " The Rifleman " ) Crawford . Conried and Donna should have gotten treatment , for electrocution and inhalation . It's the Principle of the Thing ( / 59 ) Oscar Rudolph - Hans Conried , Donna Reed , Paul Peterson
Dueling Johns	In the sting of the Civil War , mothers and sweethearts must wait and worry as their sons and lovers go off to the front . Forthwith , a Southerner named John ( Edwin August ) goes off to fight for the Confederacy . Meanwhile , a Northerner named John ( Edward Dillon ) goes off to fight for the Union . Naturally , the two opposing soldiers named John have a mother ( Kate Bruce or Clara T . Bracey ) and a sweetheart ( Dorothy West or Lucy Cotton ) waiting for their safe return . As fate would have it , the Johns meet on the battlefield , and one shoots the other . Later , Mr . August ( of the Union ) finds himself alone and pursued ; the only refuge is the home belonging to Ms . Bruce , mother of the Confederate officer he shot . Thinking first as a mother , she hides " The Fugitive " . Then , her wounded son is brought home ! A nice idea , but rather slightly told , from director D . W . Griffith .
Huck and Jim Sing	Unnecessary and unsatisfying musical rendering of Mark Twain's classic " Adventures of Huckleberry Finn " . At least , it captures the genuine friendship between Jeff East ( as Huckleberry Finn ) and Paul Winfield ( as Jim ) . However , these two performers are much more likable in other projects . Interestingly , Mr . East portrayed " Huck " in 1973's similarly presented re-make of " Tom Sawyer " , which was considered the better film . In my opinion , East would have been a better " Tom " than " Huck " . Some of the photography is rather nice , especially during the more moody ending . The Sherman-Sherman musical numbers are well below standard . The movie doesn't seem much like the book . Roberta Flack sings " Freedom " to end it all , at last . Huckleberry Finn ( 1974 ) J . Lee Thompson - Jeff East , Paul Winfield , Harvey Korman
Cave Encounters	" A fleet of UFOs is circling the Earth and a top scientist races to discover their true intentions for the planet . When the UFOs begin an attack on Earth , the scientist finds himself thrown in with a sheriff and his deputies transporting some prisoners to jail . The unlikely group is forced to seek shelter from the attack in a nearby cave , not knowing how significant it is to the alien's plans , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Peter Maris ' " Alien Species " probably heated up a few 1990s video players , with its title and young cast . Star-billed supporting actors Charles Napier ( as Sheriff Nate Bridges ) and Hoke Howell haven't much to do ; instead , the film focuses on " young talent " . More seems to have been expected from Marc Robinson ( as Paul Towers ) and Jodi Seronick ( as Carol Nelson ) than the others ; although , Kurt Paul ( as Harlan Banks ) is more enjoyable than not . The titillation level is relatively low , you show know ; the sexiest scene is when Mr . Robinson carries Ashley Semrick ( as Stacy Chambers ) out of the cave , close to the end . ( " Somewhere , over the rainbow , way up high ? " ) Perhaps the all too quick and confusing conclusion would have been clearer in the " Coming Soon " , but canceled , follow-up " Alien Species 2 - The Invasion . " Oh , well , there is still time . . .
The Perseverance of Suitors	Henry B . Walthall ( as Charles Randolph ) goes off to fight for the Confederacy , during the Civil War . Also joining the ranks are his sister ( Agnes Randolph ) ' s suitors - - Joseph Graybill and Charles West . Later , in General Robert E . Lee's tent , soldier Walthall is chosen for an dangerous mission . But , the war , and drink , have turned him into a coward ; unable to complete the mission , he runs home to mother ( Grace Henderson ) . To save family honor , Ms . West puts on her brother's uniform to complete the mission . After receiving sad news from General Lee , mother Henderson demands cowardly Walthall hide in " The House with Closed Shutters " , so folks will think he died honorably . Her plans are complicated when the sister's suitors return again , and again ? and again . The two suitors certainly do persevere ! Directed by D . W . Griffith .
Bela Lugosi Meets " The East Side Kids "	In a plot patterned after 1940's " Boys of the City " ; Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs ) , Bobby Jordan ( as Danny ) , Huntz Hall ( as Glimpy ) , Ernest " Sunshine Sammy " Morrison ( as Scruno ) , Donald Haines ( as Skinny ) , and David Gorcey ( as Peewee ) slip away to a spooky old country estate , after getting in trouble with the law . This time " The East Side Kids " meet a Dracula-like host - menacing Bela Lugosi ( as Nardo ) . Naturally , the " Kids " think Mr . Lugosi is the " The Monster Killer " threatening the area . And , if you saw him dematerialize , you'd think so , too ? Spooks Run Wild ( / 41 ) Phil Rosen - Leo Gorcey , Bobby Jordan , Bela Lugosi
Mystery Misfire	" A murder is committed at the Forest Park Planetarium during a lecture by the celebrated Astronomer , Professor Ernst Einfeld ( Lee Kohlmar ) . The fatal shot is fired in semi-darkness while a distinguished audience observes the stars projected on the dome above them . A hardboiled homicide detective ( Russell Hopton ) trades verbal jabs with a wisecracking gal reporter ( Lola Lane ) as they attempt to unravel the mysterious killing , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . In a very dull manner . The " gal reporter " character played by Lola Lane was , in part , writer Jerry Siegel's inspiration for Superman's Girl Friend , " Lois Lane " ; however , Ms . Lane's later " Torchy Blane " characterization is a more accurate reference point . Perhaps , " Death from a Distance is most notable as featuring the penultimate performance of George F . Marion ( as Jim Gray ) , who so memorably played the father of Pauline Lord ( 1921 ) , Blanche Sweet ( 1923 ) , and Greta Garbo ( 1930 ) in Eugene O'Neill's " Anna Christie " . Death from a Distance ( / 35 ) Frank Strayer - Russell Hopton , Lola Lane , George F . Marion
College Boy Too Late	In a " Pygmalion " - type plot , two cultured , chess-playing college alumni agree to round up some ruffians , and enroll them in an Ivy league school . To wit , they find Leo Gorcey ( as Slip ) and " The Bowery Boys " : Huntz Hall ( as Sach ) , Gil Stratton ( as Junior ) , David " Conden " Gorcey ( as Chuck ) , and Benny " David " Bartlett ( as Butch ) . They set out to answer the question : Can any " boy " make the grade at their " Ivy University " , or do you need " blue blood " ? " The Bowery Boys " go to college - routine , unimaginative , and . . . too late . In a " hazing " scene , the " Boys " dress like girls , and go to Louie's . In a sub-plot , Leo Gorcey's father Bernard's " Louie Dumbrowsky " character's brother " Morris " appears , making it four Gorcey characters in one film . The main story involves a chemistry dabbling Mr . Hall inventing , and drinking , a vitamin concoction which makes him a super-strong football star . Some underworld types lure Hall away from the important " big game " . Hold That Line ( / 52 ) William Beaudine - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Bernard Gorcey
Kids Know the Darndest Things	Armchair intellect Robert Benchley ( as Joseph A . Doakes ) is successful answering radio quiz show questions at home . He is urged to go " on the air " for real , by wife Ruth Lee . Anticipating he will clean up with winnings , Mr . Benchley goes on a " child versus adult " program called " Why Daddy ? " , hosted by Fred Brady . There , Benchley is pitted against little Richard " Dickie " Hall . And , wouldn't you know it , the tyke ( un ) expectedly , shows up the learned Benchley ! - This short sitcom isn't all that amusing ; but , Benchley's performance suggest he might have given Gale Gordon some competition , had he lived into the television age . Why Daddy ? ( 1944 ) Will Jason - Robert Benchley , Fred Brady , Richard Hall
Not the Real Slim Shady	After the classic " Slim Shady " and " Marshall Mathers " LPs , Eminem hit the Hollywood show biz button with " The Eminem Show " ( album ) and " 8 Mile " ( film ) . The film is tailor made for the White Rapper . Eminem ( as Jimmy " B Rabbit " Smith ) blows a " Rap Battle " , hangs with his Detroit ' hoodies , and nails slutty Brittany Murphy ( as Alex ) . Eminem wants to be a Big Rap Star . He lives with trailer park trashy mother Kim Basinger ( as Stephanie ) and lil ' blonde sista Chloe Greenfield ( as Lily ) . Ms . Basinger gets to say the line , " Greg won't go down on me . " Word way up . Curiously , Eminem does not sport his familiar ( at the time ) short , bleached do ; instead , he wears a knit hat over more natural brown locks . Eminem doesn't contribute any rent money , but he works hard . He is careful to avoid drugs , unlike boozy mother Basinger . Who knew Detroit's " 8 Mile " was so drug free ? The soundtrack highlights are " Lose Yourself " and a fun rap-up of Lynyrd Skynyrd's " Sweet Home Alabama " , which comes off better here than on " youtube " . Still , Eminem's pre-Hollywood studio work is much more highly recommended than this semi-autobiographical movie sanitization . 8 Mile ( 2002 ) Curtis Hanson - Eminem , Kim Basinger , Brittany Murphy
Romance on the Wrong Side of the Tracks	Poor , pretty Blanche Mehaffey ( as Joan " Mary Smith " Wentworth ) loses her purse to a street snatcher ; but , a tipsy passing playboy , John Darrow ( as Robert " Buddy " Hayes ) , manages to retrieve the handbag . After Mr . Darrow walks Ms . Mehaffey home , he tries to collect a kiss , and more , as a reward . But , the standoffish Mehaffey smacks him . She is seeing snarling gangster Matthew Betz ( as " Snowy " Hoagland ) . Mehaffey's associations with the criminal set make her a prime suspect in the murder of the man whose testimony sent her brother to the electric chair - but , Darrow thinks Mehaffey is innocent . . . Newspaper headlines seem to proclaim the victim's death before the body of " Marco Hahn " even stiffens . Having the cat " Midnight " draw attention to the body was a purrfect touch . Mr . Betz ' gangster rap , and Raymond Hatton ( as Scoop ) ' s reporter are mildly amusing . Co-stars Mehaffey and Darrow are a boring romantic couple . Veterans like Henry B . Walthall ( as Atwell ) always manage to look good and professional , albeit in a lackluster and low-budget production . Alias Mary Smith ( 1932 ) E . Mason Hopper - Blanche Mehaffey , John Darrow , Henry B . Walthall
Mary Pickford's Cuban Roots	Spanish immigrant Mary Pickford ( as Kate ) shares a kiss with her Floridian sweetheart Owen Moore , then learns his ship is being sent to Cuba . Ms . Pickford is despondent , but Mr . Moore promises to be faithful . A week later , Pickford receives an invitation to attend a house party , given by her Cuban uncle . So , Pickford decides to test Moore's love . She dresses up as a native Spanish Senorita , and flirts mercilessly with Moore . He doesn't recognize his American sweetheart , and succumbs to Pickford's seduction . Furious , Pickford rebuffs her horny boyfriend . When he returns to Florida , Pickford has " a little surprise " for her roving man ! - " Artful Kate " is a cute , but not artful , film for the newly wed Moore and Pickford . Hopefully , " Kate " will advise her sweetheart to have his eyes examined . Artful Kate ( 1911 ) Thomas H . Ince - Mary Pickford , Owen Moore , Charles Arling
Small World	Lonely doll-maker John Hoyt ( as Mr . Franz ) hires pretty June Kenney ( as Sally Reynolds ) as secretary at his " Dolls Inc " , where he fashions and fixes puppetry . In short order , Ms . Kenney hooks up with salesman John Agar ( as Bob Westley ) . Then , Kenney learns Mr . Hoyt's previous secretary has mysteriously disappeared , along with a mailman ( they didn't elope ) . Soon , Mr . Agar joins the missing persons list . When an Agar doll turns up among Hoyt's creations , Kenney freaks . Could the odd " Mr . Franz " be , in reality , a mad scientist ? Could he be turning people into dolls ? Is Kenney next ? A very small budget , and likely short production time keeps " Attack of the Puppet People " from becoming something bigger . Still , the direction ( Bert I . Gordon ) and story situations keep things moving along ; a " drive-in " movie and silly theme song are pleasant diversions . The film's main asset is the lead performance of the smooth talking John Hoyt as the obviously touched , but slightly touching , " Mr . Franz " . My contribution to the movie's unanswered questions is , " What about the other doll people in the plastic tubes ? " Attack of the Puppet People ( 1958 ) Bert I . Gordon - John Hoyt , John Agar , June Kenney
Stamp Out Communism	A short documentary touting the United States issued 5-cent stamp , which could send a letter from freedom loving Americans to those outside the United States . Communist bloc countries , like Poland , are specifically noted as countries receiving millions of letters from the USA . These letters promote the American way of life " we take for granted " ; and , many " penetrate the Iron Curtain " . MGM studios figure the nickel to be worth a million dollars , due to its usefulness in spreading democracy . Pier Angeli , Ricardo Montalban , Leslie Caron , and Zsa Zsa Gabor deliver brief messages to viewers , near the film's end , in their native tongues . The three actresses are of some interest , as they are in their " starlet " years ; otherwise , " The Million Dollar Nickel " is of limited worth . The Million Dollar Nickel ( 1952 ) John Nesbitt - Zsa Zsa Gabor , Leslie Caron , Pier Angeli
The Light Goes Out on Any Wednesday	Jane Fonda ( she's Ellen ) is the mistress whom executive Jason Robards ( he's John ) squeezes regularly ; they have an ecstatically happy relationship , meeting every Wednesday in the " executive suite " he keeps for her . Then , into the New York apartment walks Dean Jones ( he's Cass ) , who claims to need the phone ( and a place to stay ) . When Rosemary Murphy ( John's WIFE ! ) arrives , major high-jinks ensue ! " Any Wednesday " is another dated 1960s situation sex comedy . The four are okay - with , perhaps Mr . Jones and Ms . Murphy surpassing their more well-known upper tier co-stars . The " split screen " telephoning is interesting ; and , the script is lively with sexual innuendo . These movies seem like three-times-too-long TV half-hours comedies featuring stuff they couldn't tastefully show on TV . The " Gay Joke " comic relief is an " interior decorator " whom Murphy enlists to correct Fonda's apartment decor - it is startlingly over-the-top , like a ' 60s version of the " Negro Joke " character . Any Wednesday ( 1966 ) Robert Ellis Miller - Jane Fonda , Jason Robards , Dean Jones
Weary in Walkerville	A bunch of people who talk like Barbara Eden's character in " I Dream of Jeannie " ( they do not use contractions ) live in an utopia " Village " . In exchange for their blessed simplicity , they must stay out of " The Woods " ( My mother told me to stay out of bowling alleys , but whatever ? ) . They say creatures called " Those We Do Not Speak Of " live in the forest . ( Ron Howard's daughter ) Bryce Dallas Howard stars as " Ivy Elizabeth WALKER " . For a blind woman , Ms . Howard is amazing ( their female " Daredevil " ) . Other characters are played by Joaquin Phoenix , Adrien Brody , William Hurt , and Sigourney Weaver - if you're familiar with their resumes , you could be disappointed in this movie . Roger Deakins excels . The Village ( / 04 ) M . Night Shyamalan - Bryce Dallas Howard , Joaquin Phoenix , Adrien Brody
Steele Away	" A count who experiments with electro-stimulation of human blood discovers that his wife is having an affair . Catching the two lovers together , the count tortures and kills them , using their hearts and blood to further his experiments and to restore the beauty of his own lover . After his wife's death , the count discovers that her castle and fortune are to be given to her sister instead of him . Hoping to continue his lifestyle and his experiments , the count manipulates the sister and marries her , hoping to eliminate her as he did his first wife , not knowing that the spirits of his wife and her lover are out for revenge , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Barbara Steele ( as brunette Muriel Arrowsmith and blonde Jenny Arrowsmith ) is the main attraction . Ms . Steele plays step-sisters who look extraordinarily alike . Re-titled " Nightmare Castle " for US consumption , the production seems too rushed . The movie features a jolting opening , with scenes of bondage and torture . After that , it becomes a slow , atmospheric Gothic . The filmmakers should have considered opening the film as a mysterious Gothic , and closing with " flashback " sequences - - the lurid scenes with brunette Steele and her lover - - to explain the preceding events . Then , end with the comeuppance scenes . But , what do I know ? " Hampton Castle " is a great setting . Gli amanti d'oltretomba ( 1965 ) Mario Caiano - Barbara Steele , Paul Muller , Helga Liné
You Can't Teach an Old Dog New Tricks ?	When his house is repeatedly robbed , Dean Jones ( as Wilby ) receives no assistance from the local authorities ; so , he decides to run for District Attorney . Complicating his run is the reemergence of a magical ring from his teenage years - which turns him into an on again / off again shaggy dog . This movie is the first sequel to Walt Disney's " The Shaggy Dog " ( 1959 ) . Wilby Daniels , the teenager from the first film ( Tommy Kirk ) , has grown up , and has a family of his own : Suzanne Pleshette ( as wife Betty ) and Shane Sinutko ( as son Brian ) . None of the original film's leading actors appear in either flashback or cameo . " The Shaggy D . A . " attempts to explain more about the reasons for the change , raising more questions than it answers . This movie has a few funny moments , helped immensely by Tim Conway - there are a lot of other 1970s TV performers to pick out , which can be fun . But the film is a dog , compared to the original . The " special effects " from the first Shaggy progress surprisingly little , and look worse in color . The charming interacting performances of Mr . Kirk and the original's young characters is gone . The Shaggy D . A . ( 1976 ) Robert Stevenson - Dean Jones , Tim Conway , Suzanne Pleshette
Loan Shark !	Early social commentary directed by D . W . Griffith ; it's about " The Usurer " ( think " Loan Shark " and " Money Lender " ) who calls in some loans , resulting in misery for those not as well off as he . As he collects money , he indulges more and more . Like Mr . Griffith's previous " message film " he receives an ironic comeuppance . An unremarkable Griffith short ; technically , it's not up to the director's own standards . The sealed room looks like it might fall down any moment . Both the actors and sets move in the wrong ways ; and , it's painful to see poor Mary Pickford and Henry B . Walthall have their furniture repossessed ! The Usurer ( 1910 ) D . W . Griffith - George Nichols , Grace Henderson , Mack Sennett
Fair Badlanders	I thought the most interesting thing about this movie was that the miners wore those hats with torches in the front . At first , In thought they were candles , but they are really some sort of flamed headgear - looking like cloth caps with candle-type flames coming out in the front . They must have been awfully hot ! It seems , to me , many people would have been burned - hats , hair , and hide ! It must have been interesting ( and very hot ) to maneuver around mines in those things . This isn't much of a western ; you have to pinch yourself , sometimes , to remember it is presented as a western . After the mining , you get back to stagecoaches and shootouts . The soundtrack effects sometimes don't appear to be happening on screen . It's neat how Alan Ladd pulls a slug out of Ernest Borgnine . He's faster than Dr . Bombay from the " Bewitched " TV show ! The Badlanders ( 1958 ) Delmer Daves - Alan Ladd , Ernest Borgnine , Katy Jurado
Barbara Steele Takes a Bath	" An attorney travels to his client's castle to conduct some business where he learns upon arriving the client died almost a year ago . The client's widow and daughter then tell the attorney an incredible tale of how the owner was able to revive the spirits of long-deceased plague victims and how his spirit roams the halls of the castle . Doubting their story , the attorney begins to reconsider when a rash of mysterious deaths occur at the castle , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Translated from Italy as " Terror-Creatures from the Grave " , this disappointing slice of horror is most notable for the inclusion of the always delectable Barbara Steele ( as Cleo Hauff ) in its cast . She takes a bath , she screams , and she always livens up a mediocre movie . And , Luciano Pigozzi ( as Kurt ) is another wasted asset . Walter Brandi ( as Albert Kovac ) and Mirella Maravidi ( as Corinne Hauff ) play the more ordinary hero and heroine . 5 tombe per un medium ( 1965 ) Massimo Pupillo - Walter Brandi , Mirella Maravidi , Barbara Steele
Now You See Him , Now You Don't	" Crazed ex-military officer Paul Krenner has dreams of world domination when he forces unwilling scientist Peter Ulof to do his bidding . Ulof must develop a process to induce invisibility though atomic radiation . With this in his armory , Krenner plans to create an invisible military force , and sell it to the highest bidder . Krenner's men break safecracker Joey Faust out of jail and make him invisible , so that he can steal more radium , and then events take an unexpected turn , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Not only does " Invisible Man " Douglas Kennedy ( as Joey Faust ) suffer from on-again / off-again transparent powers ; but also , he is also given less than a month to live , due to radiation poisoning . Like his film cousins , Mr . Kennedy is loony . You should not expect the synopsis ' " invisible military force " to ever materialize - it sounds like fun , but it never happens . Celebrated director Edgar G . Ulmer is no more than ordinary . But , Marguerite Chapman ( as Laura Matson ) is appropriately trashy . And , Darrell Calker's score is nice . The Amazing Transparent Man ( 1960 ) Edgar G . Ulmer - Marguerite Chapman , Douglas Kennedy , James Griffith
Beyond a Reasonable Plot	The film begins with an interesting premise : A writer and a newspaperman are anti-Capitol Punishment . They decide to " frame " the writer ( Mr . Andrews ) for murder ; after he is tried and convicted , they plan to reveal he didn't commit the murder - saving him from the electric chair and showing how easily an innocent man can be killed with circumstantial evidence . The movie held my attention , albeit barely . For a movie requiring you to THINK ( as in , think about Capitol Punishment ) , you really can't THINK at all . The more I thought , the more I had questions - about the PLOT of this story - like WHAT do these guys think should happen to the " REAL KILLER " of this woman ? You really have to turn off you brain to fully enjoy Beyond a Reasonable Doubt , because it makes no sense if you think it through . . . I had events pretty much figured out before they happened . I thought too much , I guess . I don't think the film says much about Capitol Punishment , but the IDEA is a good one ; it would make a much better film in more adept hands . Beyond a Reasonable Doubt ( 1956 ) Fritz Lang - Dana Andrews , Joan Fontaine , Sidney Blackmer
There's a Starman Waiting in the Sky	" The Earth is threatened with atomic destruction if the people of Mirapolia ( sic ) are not allowed to rule the planet . Observers from a distant planet , fat off in space , have been observing Earth and see the peril it's ( sic ) facing . Hoping to offer aid to the citizens of Earth , the benevolent aliens send their champion Starman to face off against the leaders of Mirapolia ( it's correctly spelled Merapolia ) and take care of their atomic weapons , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Ken Utsui ( as Sûpâ Jaiantsu , or Super Giant ) must save the Earth from nuclear peril . This is the American ( English edited and dubbed ) version of the Japanese super-hero's earliest movies , Sûpâ jaiantsu ( 1957 ) and Zoku sûpâ jaiantsu ( 1957 ) . Herein , Mr . Utsui is Starman of " The Emerald Planet " . Considering the material , this is a sometimes surprisingly well-directed , by Teruo Ishii , piece of super-nonsense ; the location scenes are most enjoyable . Otherwise , it's , at best , unintentionally funny . Watch for the scene where Utsui goes to a church with some children , and meets a nun . She gives him a smile that shows she's attracted to him ; then , the young nun looks down at Utsui's groin area , where he has positioned his gun . Oh , sister ! Atomic Rulers ( 1964 ) Teruo Ishii - Ken Utsui , Utako Mitsuya , Junko Ikeuchi
Signed , Sealed , Delivered ( I'm Yours )	While on a vacation at the beach , red-haired brothers Michael McGreevey and Billy Mumy ( as Arthur and Petey Loomis ) find a seal . The lads christen their critter " Sammy " , and spend summertime frolicking with the sandy sea lion . When it's time to go home , the boys begin to suffer separation anxiety . Young Mr . McGreevey decides they can't take " Sammy " back to " Disneyland " ? er , " Gatesville " - but , young Mr . Mumy packs him anyway . At home , they try to hide " the Way-out Seal " from adults , and , of course ? hijacks ensue ! Sammy - The Way-out Seal , pt 1 ( / 62 ) Norman Tokar - Michael McGreevey , Bill Mumy , Robert Culp
Lowering the Batting Average	" A mysterious mansion holds secrets and terror for the owner and visitors alike in this thriller , based upon a classic stage play . Cornelia Van Gorder has taken up residence in an old mansion that was the scene of some mysterious deaths years ago . The recent owner of the mansion was a banker who had embezzled money and had hidden it somewhere in the mansion but , he was killed before he was able to retrieve it . Now it appears that someone is stalking the mansion ? " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . This lesser re-make is most appealing in that it stars enjoyable Agnes Moorehead ( as Cornelia Van Gorder ) and features fine support from Vincent Price ( as Malcolm Wells ) and Lenita Lane ( as Lizzie Allen ) . Ms . Lane is an exceptional employee , you'll have to agree ; she also served as director Crane Wilbur's wife . Lane and ex - " Our Gang " member Darla Hood ( as Judy Hollander ) ended their feature film careers with " The Bat " . Little mystery , some suspense . The Bat ( 1959 ) Crane Wilbur - Agnes Moorehead , Vincent Price , Gavin Gordon
His Master's Voice	I found two highlights in " Two Sisters from Boston " . The first involves the dog of the big opera star ( played by Lauritz Melchior ) . It sits ever so quietly during the opera star's songs , which I thought were poorly dubbed in this movie . No matter how loud ( and gets very loud ! ) the opera star sings , the dog quietly shows no reaction . However , later on , one of the star's performances is recorded , and played . Suddenly , the dog jumps up and does a dead-on impression of the RCA Victor logo - someone comments , " His Master's Voice ! " That was very well done . Second , there is a scene where Peter Lawford revives a fainted June Allyson with gin . Smart man ! Ms . Allyson steals the film from " pretty " star Kathryn Grayson . Jimmy Durante is entertaining ; he also uses the bottle to revive Allyson . Allyson's comic performance is fresh and natural ; later comic roles seem more forced and unnatural . Unfortunately , the movie gets too far off Allyson . I really didn't care about the other characters , and they sucked up a lot of screen time . You might have to be a big opera fan ( or fan of Mr . Melchior ) to thoroughly enjoy this movie . Two Sisters from Boston ( 1946 ) Henry Koster - June Allyson , Kathryn Grayson , Jimmy Durante
High Wire Act	Taking a break from her office work , Mildred ( Doris Roberts ) visits " Cordaro's Fabulous Funtime Circus " ; there , she participates in a mysterious séance , held by ex - " Dark Shadows " warlock Michael McGuire ( as Fresco Zapata ) . The attempt to contact the otherworldly proves to be too successful , and is abruptly terminated . Next , Remington ( Pierce Brosnan ) is knocked upside his head , and the Steele office ransacked . Recovering nicely , Remington and Laura ( Stephanie Zimbalist ) decide to investigate , by going undercover as trapeze artists , at the circus . Mildred gets to join them , as a bearded lady . At the circus , the trio connect with manager Lisa Pelikan ( as Christy Cordaro ) , who is wheelchair bound due to a supposed circus accident . Suddenly , Remington rescues rugged daytime soap star A Martinez ( as Guy Nickerson ) from what appears to staged accident . When the investigation leads to an unsolved murder , it becomes an increasingly dangerous assignment for the Remington Steele team . A stated background interest in gymnastics , and some hitherto unknown trapeze experience , helps make the story more believable . Remington Steele - High Flying Steele ( / 84 ) Karen Arthur - Pierce Brosnan , Stephanie Zimbalist , Doris Roberts
Somewhere in the South Pacific	Classic example of a film that looked better on paper . " The Wackiest Ship in the Army " begins by failing as it was obviously promoted ; to be brief , it isn't very " wacky " . With the comedy ship sinking , the film becomes more dramatic ; and , much more enjoyable . Jack Lemmon ( as Rip Crandall ) , an expert at comedy-drama , tries his best . Ricky Nelson ( as Tommy Hanson ) , an expert at quip delivery , is given almost nothing to do . Promoted as a " team " , Mr . Lemmon and Mr . Nelson have no chemistry ; and , to be fair , are given no discernible direction to that end . Nelson sings one song , " Do You Know What it Means to Miss New Orleans ? " Although sweet , it isn't one of his better , or representative , songs ; but , it did fit the film's World War II setting . The scene with Lemmon accompanying Nelson's singing , on piano , is interesting . Lemmon tickles the ivories , clearly uncomfortable in a " Bob Hope " role , while Nelson sings to the recording as if it were an " Ozzie and Harriet " TV bonus song . Still , the stars , supporting cast , and colorful photography ( by Charles Lawton Jr . ) are never less than pleasant . The Wackiest Ship in the Army ( 1960 ) Richard Murphy - Jack Lemmon , Ricky Nelson , Richard Anderson
Too Many Indians	Lucille Ball ( as Connie ) is going to college . Her wealthy father is afraid she'll get into trouble , so he hires four football players to be her bodyguards . NOT a very bright man , obviously ! The bodyguards are : Desi Arnaz ( as Manuelito ) , Eddie Bracken ( as Jojo ) , Richard Carlson ( as Clint ) , and Hal LeRoy ( as Al ) . Ann Miller and Frances Langford are around to dance and sing . It's a fair musical , with an " Indian " subplot ( Huh ? ) , and budget problems . You should know that Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz are not paired up in ( on-screen , anyway ) this film ( Ms . Ball is partnered with Mr . Carlson ) . This is a routinely presented film , with a few highlights . Unfortunately Mr . Le Roy and Ms . Miller do not have a real dance off / team-up together . Mr . Arnaz steals the show from his future wife with a charming performance - look for the scene where he plays " guess the lipstick " ! Too Many Girls ( 1940 ) George Abbott - Lucille Ball , Desi Arnaz , Ann Miller
Meyer's Angels	Three well-endowed strippers race ! kill ! and kidnap ! - resulting in an ample female foursome . Their " screenplay starts to unfold , " according to star Tura Satana ( as Varla ) , when they meet up with old man in a wheelchair Stuart Lancaster ( as The Old Man ) and his hunky son Dennis Busch ( as Vegetable ) . They want to find Mr . Lancaster's stash , and check out " the lay of the land . " Another son complicates matters and relationships . There are some funny lines - like Ms . Satana mentioning Christopher Columbus to a leering gas station attendant . The best part is when Varla tries to pin Vegetable with her car . Ouch ! A lurid trip . Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! ( 1965 ) Russ Meyer - Tura Satana , Lori Williams , Dennis Busch
Elvis Goes Directly to Jail	Elvis Presley plays an ex-con who becomes a rock ' n ' roll singer . The film begins with Elvis accidentally killing the boyfriend of a woman who tries to pick him up in a bar . In jail for manslaughter , he learns to play the guitar . Out of jail , he becomes a rock ' n ' roll star . The story becomes how he deals with the fame . The movie isn't very good , although Elvis looks , and sounds , terrific - the superb " Jailhouse Rock " production number isn't just one of the highlights if this film , it's one of the best in ANY Elvis film . Judy Tyler is a sweet , atypical leading lady for Elvis . Elvis ' acting performance is uneven , at best . I found his character notably despicable ; and the storyline ridiculous and exploitive ( of Elvis ) ; but , I accept and respect contrary opinions . Jailhouse Rock ( 1957 ) Richard Thorpe - Elvis Presley , Judy Tyler , Mickey Shaughnessy
What in God's Name Is Going On Here ?	Man-of-the-cloth Mel Gibson ( as Graham Hess ) has left the Priesthood . Six months ago , Mr . Gibson lost his wife in a car accident ; and , he is struggling with a loss of Christian faith . Gibson's younger brother , Joaquin Phoenix ( as Merrill Hess ) has moved in , to help Gibson and his children grieve . Mr . Phoenix was a promising baseball player , but he stuck out too much . Gibson is an Episcopalian , obviously ( a wife and sex are permitted ) , with two children : asthmatic alien-conscious Rory Culkin ( as Morgan Hess ) and perpetually thirsty Abigail Breslin ( as Bo Hess ) . Gibson is also a farmer . The movie gets started when extraterrestrials startle Gibson's family , by turning their Pennsylvania cornfield into " Crop Signs " - aka " Crop Circles " . Soon , these " Signs " are popping up all over India , and the world . Presumably , the designs are signposts for motherships - it's difficult to understand what logical purpose they would serve , as an alien spacecraft would be too technically advanced to use them . . . maybe , then , they are merely alien pranks . Or , they could be sent from God , to help Gibson re-harvest his faith ? " Signs " borrows its basic plot from H . G . Wells ' " The War of the Worlds " - a frequently tapped well . Gibson , Phoenix , and the kids look very silly in two memorable poses , sitting stone-faced with their palms on their knees and / or wearing pointy tinfoil hats . The biggest " jolt " comes early in the film , with a simple dog's bark . Mr . Shyamalan builds suspense well , in the early scenes . The best performance is delivered by director M . Night Shyamalan ( as Ray Reddy ) . Cherry Jones ( as Caroline Paski ) is okay as the local cop , but her character should have written up ( as a possessed alien , for example ) . The main " special effect " is good ; but , the aliens , if they are real , have to be the dumbest extraterrestrials in the galaxy , if you stop and think about it ? Signs ( 2002 ) M . Night Shyamalan - Mel Gibson , Joaquin Phoenix , Rory Culkin
Tennessee Walls	Fifteen-year-old Gary McCleery ( as Bobby Lipscomb ) skips school , hangs around with his older brothers , and dreams of flying airplanes . One evening , he makes the " Hard Choice " and joins drug-addicted Martin Donovan ( as Josh Lipscomb ) and trigger happy John Snyder ( as Ben Lipscomb ) in a " Food Market " robbery . Unfortunately , Mr . Snyder kills a police officer , who happens upon the scene . The three brothers are quickly apprehended . Mr . McCleery hopes to be tried as a juvenile ; but , Tennessee judges rule he is to be tried as an adult . When things look bleakest for young McCleery , social worker Margaret Klenck ( as Laura Stephens ) steps in to improve his treatment in prison and the courts ; she is only partially successful . Then , Ms . Klenck makes a " Hard Choice " of her own ? According to the sleeve , this film got excellent reviews ; and , the quotes are from reliable sources . Perhaps some of these reviewers will consider re-evaluation " Hard Choices " ? It really isn't all that believable a story . McCleery doesn't seem much like a 15-year-old , and Klenck's character development is disappointing ( to say the least ) . However , they , and the other performers , do as well as they can ( with the story ) . It's great to see Mr . Donovan in an early role ; strangely , he and Snyder are abandoned during the running time . Writer-director John Sayles is good , also , as Klenck's coke companion . The photography , by Tom Hurwitz , is a major strength . Hard Choices ( 1985 ) Rick King - Gary McCleery , Margaret Klenck , John Sayles
Sealed with a Kiss	Last week , while on a vacation at the beach , red-haired brothers Michael McGreevey and Billy Mumy ( as Arthur and Petey Loomis ) found a seal . The lads christened their critter " Sammy " , and spent summertime frolicking with the sandy sea lion . When it was time to go home , the boys began to suffer separation anxiety . Of course , the young brothers took " Sammy " back to " Disneyland " ? er , " Gatesville " . At home , they try to hide " the Way-out Seal " from adults , but , of course ? hijacks ensue ! McGreevey and Mumy are marvelously cast , and make it fun to watch . You should probably be very young ( or have a childlike mind ) to fully enjoy writer / director Norman Tokar's " Sammy - The Way-out Seal " - a colorful string of routine , deliberately staged scenes . The second half prominently features veteran Jack Carson ( as Harold Sylvester ) , in his last appearance ( died January 1963 ) . Robert Culp & Patricia Barry play the parents , and Ann Gillian ( as " Rocky " Sylvester ) helps round out the cast . Sammy - The Way-out Seal , pt 2 ( / 62 ) Norman Tokar - Michael McGreevey , Bill Mumy , Jack Carson
Mabel Normand Takes Flight	Mabel Normand and Fred Mace are out for a stroll , when they encounter aviator Phillip Parmalee and his cool early 1900s biplane . The pilot offers to take the duo up for a spin through the clouds ; Ms . Normand jumps at the chance , and enjoys her ride with the dashing Mr . Parmalee . The less brave , and relatively rotund , Mr . Mace is jealous . Later , Mace raises ire in a Mexican community , and needs the aviator's help ? Notable for its aerial Culver City , California location footage , photographed by Percy Higginson ; and , featuring aviator Parmalee , who worked with Wilbur Wright . Mack Sennett's " A Dash Through the Clouds " is also lifted by Normand and Mace . Jack Pickford ( Mary's little brother ) has one of his more substantial early roles , as the Mexican boy who assists Mace .
Wee Wilbert Winkle	Meek and mild Edward G . Robinson ( as Wilbert Winkle ) decides to quit his bank job and do what he wants , open a " fix-it " repair shop behind his house . Mr . Robinson is married , but childless ; he has befriended local orphanage resident Ted Donaldson ( as Barry ) . Young Donaldson is an eager workshop assistant , and sees Robinson as a father figure . Robinson's nagging wife Ruth Warwick ( as Amy ) is unhappy with Robinson's job choice , and conspires to return matters to her idea of normalcy . Their lives are further disrupted when Robinson is drafted . The war also disrupts what might have been an interesting story , as Robinson's character struggles against a domineering , unsympathetic wife . Possibly , filmmakers are showing how war can save marriages and positively redirect lives . Robinson and Donaldson are a likable team . Robert Mitchum has an inauspicious bit part . The ending " trick " played by Ms . Warwick and Donaldson is predictably staged .
If You Don't Know Jack	I saw " Billy Jack " ( the next film ) first and believe it is the better Jack . There are many situations / elements in " Born Losers " which are more accessible in the later films . This " Born Losers " is mildly entertaining , I think , if you are more familiar with the character and situations Tom Laughlin creates . I don't think I would have been as interested if I didn't know Jack . So , I think a more involved Billy would have helped THIS movie - I kept waiting for Laughlin to perform , even if it's just to TALK more about his ( Jack's ) philosophies on life . The other interest is Jane Russell , in a supporting role . Her total film career reveals a versatility . Too bad movie makers didn't offer her more choice roles . The Born Losers ( 1967 ) Tom Laughlin - Tom Laughlin , Elizabeth James , Jane Russell
Southern Hospitality	The mysterious disease Pellagra strikes hundreds of thousands of Americans dead , mainly in the Southern United States , at the turn of the century . Dr . Joseph Goldberger ( played by Shepperd Strudwick ) , a Jewish immigrant , suspects the illness may be connected to nutrition . Mr . Goldberger's experiments , which include feeding Northern prisoners a Southern diet , are criticized as " torture " - but , Goldberger safely identifies the cause and cure for Pellagra . This episode of narrator John Nesbitt's " Passing Parade " is bracketed with Isaiah 44 : 19 , " Behold , I will do a new thing - I will even make a way in the wilderness . " Notable for Mr . Strudwick's convincing performance , and its director . Passing Parade : A Way in the Wilderness ( 1940 ) Fred Zinnemann - Shepperd Strudwick , John Nesbitt , Edward Hearn
West with Mickey	Mickey Rooney ( as J . Dennis " Denny " O'Moore ) is out west , looking to find his brother Robert Stack ( as Patrick O'Moore ) , whom he hasn't seen in eight years . Mr . Rooney meets up with Robert Preston ( as Joe Walter ) , who is looking for the notorious outlaw known as " El Tigre " . No prize for guessing how " El Tigre " is related to Rooney . Wanda Hendrix adds femininity to " My Outlaw Brother " . Tip your cowboy hat to Mickey Rooney , who is the film's greatest asset ; and , he gets the larger women . Mr . Stack is penetrating as Rooney's unlikely brother . Mr . Preston makes a good partner ; wisely , he is low key in the presence of Rooney . Just an interesting cast in a slight film .
The Passion of George Stevens	Re-telling the story of Jesus Christ , who founded Christianity , and inspired a myriad of movies . " The Greatest Story Ever Told " is one of those religious " EPIC " - SCREAMING presentations , which would bore even God to death . Upon entering the " Pearly Gates " , creator George Stevens ( at the time , one of the " Greatest " filmmakers in Hollywood ) must have received a few divine demerits for this production . Hopefully , he was forgiven . One can only imagine the number of excellent movies this budget , cast , and crew might have produced . The film's cost is evident , and Mr . Stevens is too good a director not to sneak in some nice touches ( like an angelic water reflection ) . Stevens is , however , more ponderous than reverential . The photography , by William Mellor ( who , sadly , suffered a fatal heart attack during the production ) and Loyal Griggs , is the film's main strength . Max von Sydow ( as Jesus ) works well , delivering the Savior envisioned by Stevens . The star-studded supporting cast varies in effectiveness . Charlton Heston's Herculean-looking " John the Baptist " grows on you , but John Wayne's infamous participation is obviously asinine ; others fall in between the cracks . The Greatest Story Ever Told ( 1965 ) George Stevens - Max von Sydow , Charlton Heston , John Wayne
Another Fish Tale	For reasons not entirely clear , a beautiful mermaid leaves her baby son with a goofy boater ; happily , a nice couple picks him up instead . In this story , mermaids get fishy when they reach that certain age . Thirteen years later , the baby boy grows into typical teenager Chez Starbuck ( as Cody ) . He takes an advanced swim class ( the team looks high school ) , competes with Tim Redwine ( as Sean ) , and gets a birthday kiss from Courtnee Draper ( as Sam ) . Then , young Starbuck's palms get sticky . He makes friends with lonely nerd Justin Jon Ross ( as Jess ) , who helps him in biology ; in return , Starbuck promises he will teach young Ross to swim . Then , Starbuck's hands sprout scales . . . Cute . The Thirteenth Year ( 1999 ) Duwayne Dunham - Chez Starbuck , Justin Jon Ross , Tim Redwine
Atom Age Scar Reduction Therapy	" An exotic dancer has a terrible automobile accident and , as a result , is horribly scarred , on her face . Hoping for a miracle treatment , the dancer visits a scientist who has had marvelous results in restoring patient's ( sic ) appearances , and is cured of her scars . Unfortunately , there are some terrible side-effects from the procedure ? the scientist must use unethical methods to try and make the cure permanent . With suspicions ( growing , and ) the dancer's boyfriend and the authorities closing in ? " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Inappropriately re-produced as " Atom Age Vampire " ; this is actually an adaptation of " The Strange Case of Dr . Jekyll and Mr . Hyde " , with some other horrific clichés , quite neatly layered into the mix . Mad scientist Alberto Lupo ( as Alberto Levin ) , unappreciated Franca Parisi ( as Monique ) , and lackey Roberto Bertea ( as Sacha ) are an intriguing set-up . Horribly dubbed ( although , the voices are good ) , and painfully predictable ; it very obviously wouldn't be a completely awful film , in its unaltered Italian version . Atom Age Vampire ( 1960 ) Anton Giulio Majano - Alberto Lupo , Susanne Loret , Sergio Fantoni
Go to the Head of the Class !	" A surgeon working on experimental transplant procedures seems to be on the verge of a major breakthrough with his technique , even though his surgeon father disapproves of his manner of research . While out driving with his fiancée , the doctor crashes his car and is horrified to discover his bride-to-be is decapitated . Rushing his fiancée's head to his lab , he is able to revive her where she is now living as a bodiless entity kept alive by tubes and an experimental serum . Hoping to restore his fiancée , the surgeon begins to bars and gentlemen's clubs looking or a candidate for transplanting his fiancée's head onto another body , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . After its so-so " operating room " opening , this film kicks into high gear , with dashing hero Jason Evers ( as Bill Cortner ) recklessly driving fiancée Virginia Leith ( Jan Compton ) into her accidental decapitation . Mr . Evers ' mad rush to carry her wrapped head home really draws your interest ; ironically , it's like watching a car wreck . Ms . Leith's head , sitting in what looks like Evers ' Thanksgiving roasting pan , is quite a sight . With the gore level about as high as it gets ( for the time ) , the film parades sexy , large-breasted women across the screen , as Evers searches for s suitable body for his fiancée's severed head . Meow . Leslie Daniels ( as Kurt ) has trouble keeping his arms to himself . Eddie Carmel adds tension , as the monster in the closet . Joseph Green's " Brain " is a lurid classic . The Brain That Wouldn't Die ( 1962 ) Joseph Green - Jason Evers , Virginia Leith , Leslie Daniels
Gorilla in the Midst	" A scientist has developed a serum which grotesquely distorts the victim's hands and heads . The scientist decides to use his serum on a concert pianist to extort money from him for the cure as well as take the man's daughter for a wife , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . J . Carrol Naish ( as Dr . Igor Markoff ) plays " The Monster Maker " in the low budget Bela Lugosi mode . Mr . Naish's serum causes a real disorder , " acromegaly " , which American Heritage defines as , " A chronic disease of adults marked by enlargement of the bones of the extremities , face , and jaw that is caused by overactivity of the pituitary gland . " Ralph Morgan ( as Anthony Lawrence ) plays the afflicted man with some dignity . Pretty blonde Wanda McKay ( as Patricia " Pat " Lawrence ) is the daughter desired by mad scientist Naish ; in early scenes , Ms . McKay and Naish emote hilariously . Watch for Tala Birell ( as Maxine ) in a surprisingly good supporting performance ; she plays the somewhat Garbo-like , and long suffering , assistant to Naish . Ms . Birell definitely steals the film ; and , you've got to question Dr . Markoff's sanity in casting her aside . Glenn Strange ( as Steve ) and a crazed gorilla ( Ray Corrigan ) add to the fun . The monster makeup ( Maurice Seiderman ) is very good . The Monster Maker ( 1944 ) Sam Newfield - J . Carrol Naish , Ralph Morgan , Tala Birell
It's the End of the World as We Know It ( and I Feel Fine )	Self-centered college students party and have sex . The focus is a " love triangle " formed by : frustrated abstinent Shannyn Sossamon ( Lauren Hynde ) , promiscuous dealer James Van Der Beek ( Sean Bateman ) , and shallow homosexual Ian Somerhalder ( Paul Denton ) . All three are , actually , a combination of frustrated , promiscuous , and shallow - as are many other characters in the cast . Accent on shallow . Writer / director Roger Avary takes his cues from Bret Easton Ellis's novel " The Rules of Attraction " . Several characters from " Rules " have appeared in Mr . Avary's other books ; most notably , " Sean " is the younger brother of " Patrick Bateman " . Faye Dunaway , Swoosie Kurtz , Fred Savage , Eric Stoltz , and Paul Williams appear briefly ( one in briefs ) . The film has an " experimental " look , beginning with " backwards " motion . A split screen meeting between Mr . Van Der Beek and Ms . Sossamon is cute . But , the best part of the entire work is a short segment you could call " Victor's European Semester " . With dizzying detail , the character Kip Pardue ( as Victor ) narrates the sex-and-drugs details of his European trip . This small part of the film is amazing ; and , it's really all you need , to get the point . Due to this excellent montage , the story is lifted , momentarily , peaking with a hilarious reunion for " Lauren and " Victor " . The Rules of Attraction ( 2002 ) Roger Avary - James Van Der Beek , Shannyn Sossamon , Ian Somerhalder
The Spy Who Nursed Me	Sent off on a World War I spy mission , Bruce Lester ( as Frank Bennett ) is shot down during an aerial attack ; he survives , and believes he has fallen in love with nurse Margaret Lindsay ( as Helene Von Lorbeer ) , after she nurses him back to health . Mr . Lester doesn't know it , but Ms . Lindsay is really German spy Frances Hautry ; coincidently , her mission involves moving into Lester's own home , where she makes contact with newly-hired family servant Boris Karloff ( as Valdar ) . Mr . Karloff is really German spy Karl Schiller . With Lester away , Karloff and Lindsay will play ; their game is delivering Allied secrets to the Germans . But , wait , Karloff appears to also be working for " British Intelligence " ; their mission is to eliminate mysterious German spy " Strengler " . Now , hold on , Lindsay reveals she's also a double agent , when Lester returns home and recognizes her as Nurse Helene . . . Third time around for " Three Faces East " ( 1926 , 1930 ) . Fairly predictable , if you think about it - - but Karloff and Lindsay are fun to watch .
Another Picture of Dorian Gray	The story is familiar - recall , original novelist Oscar Wilde's " Dorian " wished his painting would grow old whilst he remain young . Like in days of old , handsome male model Ethan Erickson ( as Louis ) wishes for eternal youth . Then , while one of his pictures ages , he becomes the ageless " Dorian " of the title . Like his predecessors , Mr . Erickson descends into decadent debauchery . A charismatic older mentor , Malcolm McDowell ( as Henry ) , eggs him on . . . Re-titled " Pact with the Devil " . Allan A . Goldstein's updated " Dorian " alters the story in ways that become nonsensical . The main problem occurs by making Mr . McDowell's character semi-Faustian . To have McDowell in the cast , and render his character inexplicable , should be a crime . Erickson , an extremely good-looking man , is also slighted by a faltering characterization - in an early scene , he is required to pretend he couldn't imagine someone thinking he could be a pin-up boy ? And , Jennifer Nitsch ( as Bae ) has an undeveloped , but intriguing , back-story . Dorian ( 2001 ) Allan A . Goldstein - Ethan Erickson , Malcolm McDowell , Jennifer Nitsch
All a-Bored	This misty , seafaring film looks and sounds very beautiful , and atmospheric . I just couldn't get involved with the story ; and found the acting fantastically uneven . I can imagine the direction given to Victor Mature before he enters the French tavern - " Enter left and look startled ! " - The ship had a sort of " beatnik / hippie " type character on board . The French waitress was cast against type , I though . The characters really treat her poorly ! I wonder , is the film's message that women are " bad luck " ? It's a fair film - probably , kids in theaters would have enjoyed spending an afternoon in the theater on the " Captain Caution " ship . If I was a 10-year-old kid boy the ' 40s , I would have liked this movie more . Captain Caution ( 1940 ) Richard Wallace - Victor Mature , Louise Platt , Leo Carrillo
A Walking Nightmare	" When a banker turns up missing , former detective Nick Trayne is brought in on the case to find him . When the banker turns up but appears to be in a trance , Trayne must now try to find out what happened to the banker . A household full of suspects makes for a tough case that our crack detective must solve and bring the culprit to justice , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . This variation of the " old dark house " plot is more tired than true . " The Living Ghost " angle turns out to be a good idea , but zombie Gus Glassmire ( as Walter Craig ) doesn't get enough screen time to really frighten . Writers Howard Dimsdale and Joseph Hoffman do well , considering . Detective James Dunn ( as Trayne ) and adorable Joan Woodbury ( as Billie Hilton ) are a delightful couple of sleuths . The supporting roles are performed admirably - right down to Harry Depp ( as Homer Hawkins ) . If only the production were kicked up a notch , or two ? The Living Ghost ( 1942 ) William Beaudine - James Dunn , Joan Woodbury , Paul McVey
Look Where You Can't Go	" Michael Jennings ( Ben Affleck ) is a brilliant computer engineer hired for top-secret projects . After each job , Jennings ' short-term memory is erased so he cannot recount any project information . Emerging from his latest assignment , a three-year contract with an eight-figure paycheck given to him by his longtime friend ( Aaron Eckhart ) , Jennings is jolted when he is told that during the end of his assignment , he agreed to forfeit all payment , " according to the sleeve's synopsis . " Jennings has no recourse - until he receives a mysterious envelope containing clues to his forgotten past . With the help of a beautiful scientist ( Uma Thurman ) he once loved but now cannot remember , Jennings races to solve the puzzle of his past . . . while a terrifying discovery waits in his future . " Philip K . Dick's original story would make a great film ; unfortunately , this poorly executed and overproduced " Paycheck " doesn't really cash it in . The film could be used as a guide on how not to bring Mr . Dick's " Paycheck " to the big screen . Still , it's mildly fun to watch protagonist " Michael Jennings " sort out , and use , the 20 items he mailed to his amnesiac self . The acting and direction ( John Woo ) is obvious . Ivana Milicevic gives it as much PG sex appeal as she can muster . Paycheck ( 2003 ) John Woo - Ben Affleck , Uma Thurman , Aaron Eckhart
Robert Rodriguez plays a Mexican Hat Trick	" Leaping back into action , gun-slinging , guitar-toting hero ' El Mariachi ' is back in town in ' Once Upon a Time in Mexico ' , as director Robert Rodriquez delivers the epic final chapter of his pulp western trilogy . Starring Antonio Banderas , Salma Hayek , Johnny Depp , Mickey Rourke , Eva Mendes , Enrique Iglesias , and Willem Dafoe , ' Once Upon a Time in Mexico ' is a full-frontal assault , " according to the DVD sleeve . That's about as good a description of this blood-splattering , testicle-crunching Robert Rodriguez film as you're going to get . Mr . Rodriguez borrows the title , some of the style , but little of the greatness from Sergio Leone's " Once Upon a Time in the West " . Hard to dope it all out . Sometimes it looks and sounds nice ; though , that's not enough to make it a story . Once Upon a Time in Mexico ( 2003 ) Robert Rodriguez - Antonio Banderas , Salma Hayek , Johnny Depp
Edward Norris Mustn't Be Squeamish	" A young man , recently engaged to be married , is the victim of a traffic accident and dies as a result of his injuries . His father , desperate to revive his son , agrees to let a scientist friend try his experimental soul transmigration process to save him . After the young man returns to life , the father and fiancée notice a dark and violent change in the young man's behavior , leading them to believe something went horribly wrong in the revival process , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . At one point , Edward Norris ( as Philip Bennett ) is asked , " What do you think this is , Boys Town ? " Mr . Norris should know , since he was in " Boys Town " . " The Man with Two Lives " is more like " Black Friday " minus Karloff and Lugosi . You do the math . This film might have been a contender , with a re-worked script ; it does feature an intriguing final act . After a tepid " shoot out " , hang in for the drama to pick up with a well-played scene between star Norris and pursuing detective Addison Richards ( as George Bradley ) . The Man with Two Lives ( 1942 ) Phil Rosen - Edward Norris , Eleanor Lawson , Addison Richards
Frozen Dead	Yellowstone National Park ranger Henry Hunter ( as Dick Sherwood ) ' s head is turned by pretty Chicago tourist Judith Barrett ( as Ruth Foster ) . After the two get romantic , her ex-con father is murdered . Then , suspicious-looking visitor Alan Hale ( as Hardigan ) reveals he's a private detective ; so , he investigates the death of Ms . Barrett's dad , Ralph Morgan ( as James Foster ) . When Mr . Hunter becomes the prime suspect , his romance with the deceased's daughter understandably sours . Hunter insist he didn't kill Barrett's father , and begins his own investigation . Andy Devine ( as " Pay-Day " ) and his mule Gertrude provide comic relief . Monroe Owsley leads an enjoyable supporting cast .
Of Wolf and Man	" Dr . Cameron , a discredited scientist succeeds with his experiment in creating serum the transforms men into wolf-like creatures . Originally developing this formula to help the world , the scientist decides to use his newly created subject to exact revenge upon the scientists who were responsible for his ouster from the scientific community . The scientist's daughter Lenora grows wary of her father's actions and shares her suspicions with a newspaper reporter . When the scientist loses control of his creature , it falls upon the scientist's daughter and the reporter to stop it , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Mad scientist George Zucco ( as Lorenzo Cameron ) creates his formula rather unimaginatively , by mixing human and wolf blood . This brings the beast out in hulking Glenn Strange ( as Petro aka Pedro ) , who is directed to act like Lon Chaney Jr . in " Of Mice and Men " . Johnny Downs ( as Tom Gregory ) and Anna Nagel ( as Lenora Cameron ) are a likable werewolf hunter and damsel in distress . Certainly , " The Mad Monster " is no substitute for " The Wolf Man " ; but , it's a serviceable addendum . The grainy black-and-white photography enhances the foggy , cow-webbed atmosphere . " God " ( uncredited ) strikes up a well-done ending , too . Like Blaine ( Robert Strange ) said , " Mingling the blood of man and beast is downright sacrilege ! " The Mad Monster ( 1942 ) Sam Newfield - George Zucco , Johnny Downs , Anna Nagel
Playing Cupid	In this early tearjerker , directed by D . W . Griffith , friendless bachelor Dell Henderson and lonely spinster Claire McDowell live across the hall from each other . The children in the neighborhood play dirty , rotten tricks on them . Oddly enough , the two loveless ones detest each other . The children , led by a little girl named Sunbeam , could bring the two adults together ? Sunbeam is played by Ynez Seabury , the little girl from " The Miser's Heart " ( 1911 ) ; she is still running around loose , but she has a better reason in " The Sunbeam " . Her mother , Kate Bruce , has an important supporting performance , which she plays perfectly . Obvious message to ladies : if you don't want to wear a frumpy collared outfit like Ms . McDowell's spinster , better get yourself a husband ! The Sunbeam ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Dell Henderson , Claire McDowell , Kate Bruce
It Happened One Night	Wealthy heiress Wendy Barrie , to escape an arranged marriage , stows away in poor Gene Raymond's trailer / camper . Interestingly , she does this wearing her slip . So , I guess you could say she SLIPS away . ( There is nothing that witty in the movie . ) Of course , they fall in love and get married ? then , he discovers her true identity ! Will their wedding survive this dishonesty ? You get one guess . This movie would have been better with Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert in the lead roles . Maybe Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz could have done a re-make . Hedda Hopper plays an old mother - I wonder if she read the entire script ? Cross-Country Romance ( 1940 ) Frank Woodruff - Gene Raymond , Wendy Barrie , Hedda Hopper
Hungry Like the Wolf	Professional gambler and gunslinger William S . Hart ( as Oak Miller ) dearly loves sister Helen Holly ( as Rose Miller ) . The story begins with Ms . Holly on the Missouri riverboat " Valletta " . Holly is engaged to gentlemanly Alexander Gaden ( as Mark Granger ) , who decides he wants to " honeymoon " before marriage . Horrified , virtuous Holly jumps ship . Ashore , Mr . Hart senses the danger ( with the help of a well-timed letter ) , and rushes to the rescue . Recovering from her near-drowning , Holly pleads with Hart not to seek vengeance . Later , Mr . Gaden disguises himself with a beard ; in town , he causes trouble for Hart and his sweetheart , brown-eyed bank cashier Vola Vale ( as Barbara ) . Ms . Vale also has trouble fending off the advances of lecherous step-father Bert Sprotte ( as Eliphalet Moss ) . After attempting rape , Mr . Sprotte turns up dead . Vale's long-lost brother also turns up . Hart is accused of killing Sprotte , and jailed . Vale joins a traveling Wagon Train , with the always sexually-charged Gaden . " Indians " mix in ; as it turns out , Gaden has had his way with an Indian lass . There are several good scenes , helped by the photography of Joe August ; but , William S . Hart's over-produced , over-plotted tale of reluctant vengeance doesn't compare with his earlier work . Only a dog named " Jeff " could sort " White Oak " out . Woof , woof !
Playing the Field	Shoreham College football star Richard Barthelmess ( as Jack Hamill ) specializes in " The Drop Kick " . At home , Mr . Barthelmess is admired by pretty hometown girl Barbara Kent ( as Cecily Graves ) . At school , the player is pursued by vamp Dorothy Revier ( as Eunice Hathaway ) . Ms . Revier is a newlywed , but doesn't let it " cramp her style " . She used to date Barthelmess , before she married his best friend , and coach , Eugene Strong ( as Brad Hathaway ) . Mr . Strong has a difficult time balancing his budget . Soon , Barthelmess ' college career is threatened by an unexpected shooting ? Barthelmess gives it the old college try , but " The Drop Kick " doesn't score . It's odd that this routine , and not very credible , film was released between " The Noose " and " The Patent Leather Kid " , two films which brought Barthelmess Academy Award consideration . The football scenes are okay ; but , the visual highlight is the " windmill dance " at the gymnasium . Revier , as the coach's wife , is the most interesting player . John Wayne appears inauspiciously , as an extra . " Wild " Bill Elliott is more noteworthy , making a forward play , at the dance . The Drop Kick ( 1927 ) Millard Webb - Richard Barthelmess , Dorothy Revier , Barbara Kent
A Star Is Bugs	When radio singer Lee Bowman refuses to renew his contract , talent scout Jack Carson ventures out to look for a new star . He finds Doris Day - a significant improvement ! The story is similar to " A Star Is Born " . How Ms . Day goes undiscovered for so long with such a striking voice is not convincing . Day is a single parent ( in the film , it is stated that she lost her husband during World War II ) , which helps set up the film's highlight - a cute dream sequence for her son features an animated Bugs Bunny . The soundtrack isn't exceptional , but Day performs the songs well . " My Dream Is Yours " is colorful and routine . My Dream Is Yours ( 1949 ) Michael Curtiz - Doris Day , Jack Carson , Eve Arden
The Fog of War	For service in World War II , brash Robert Taylor ( as Alan " Pensacola " Drake ) is assigned a " Flight Command " role , with the squadron of Navy fliers known as the " Hell Cats " . At first , Mr . Taylor's confident cockiness rubs everyone the wrong way ; but , he earns his comrades ' respect , through charm and ability . Taylor also catches the eye of otherwise happily married Ruth Hussey ( as Lorna Gary ) , wife of " Hell Cat " commander Walter Pidgeon ( as William " Billy " Gray ) . Will their " love triangle " be consummated ? Ordinary flag-waving film , ostensibly about Taylor fitting in with his squadron ; however , the war sacrifices Ms . Hussey makes become the film's main focus . The supporting players outperform the leads ; in particular , Shepperd Strudwick ( as Jerry Banning ) and Paul Kelly ( as Dusty Rhodes ) . Mr . Strudwick's " fog device " provides an interesting sub-plot . The inter-cut " fog device " visual is an example of one of the film's irritants . Frank Borzage ( direction ) and Harold Rosson ( photography ) make some scenes look nice .
D . W . Griffith Makes Crime Pay	Mary Pickford ( as Mrs . Holcomb ) is a faithful wife ; outside prison walls , she waits for husband Elmer Booth ( as Jim Holcomb ) to be released . The day arrives , and Mr . Booth decides it's " the straight road for me . " But , his prison pal Charles Hill Mailes , released the same day , isn't so sure about the straight life . Mr . Mailes takes up counterfeiting . When Booth has difficulty making an honest buck , Mailes asks him to join the counterfeiting gang ? Winning performances by Pickford and Booth help make crime pay for director D . W . Griffith . Booth will shortly return to gangster form in Griffith's better " The Musketeers of Pig Alley " ( 1912 ) , for which " The Narrow Road " is a dry run . The Narrow Road ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Mary Pickford , Elmer Booth , Charles Hill Mailes
or , Get Off the Pot !	In order to protect a $100 million inheritance , commitment-shy bachelor Chris O'Donnell ( as Jimmie Shannon ) learns he must marry before he reaches his impending 30th birthday . Naturally , Mr . O'Donnell proposes to the woman he loves , beautiful blonde Renée Zellweger ( as Anne Arden ) . But , Ms . Zellweger senses O'Donnell's heart really isn't in his " ( empty your intestine ) or get off the pot ! " proposal . Zellweger bails , with sister Marley Shelton ( as Natalie ) . So , O'Donnell , with pal Artie Lange ( as Marco ) assisting , tries to locate a marriage-minded woman , who is willing to share $100 million , and produce a baby . Any takers ? Ms . Shelton is a sweet sidekick , and Brooke Shields ( as Buckley ) stands out among the unfortunately wasted supporting cast . Gary Sinyor's " The Bachelor " is a lesser re-make of a well-remembered Buster Keaton comedy ( " Seven Chances " ) . No cigar and not even close . The Bachelor ( 1999 ) Gary Sinyor - Chris O'Donnell , Renee Zellweger , Marley Shelton
Never Getting Off the Ground	Don't get too excited about the prospect of seeing John Wayne and Robert Ryan in a Nicholas Ray-directed World War II drama . Considering those three names , " Flying Leathernecks " does not meet expectations . It's a mediocre Howard Hughes-RKO-commissioned war movie . Mr . Ray shows off his most " production line " direction . Mr . Wayne ( as Dan Kirby ) and Mr . Ryan ( as Carl " Griff " Griffin ) have an vacuous attitude conflict ; it's interesting to watch their acting techniques , without being distracted by a sensible story . A script highlight is the cute reference to the nursery rhyme " Jack and Jill went up the hill ? " Jay C . Flippen ( as Clancy ) provides additional " comic relief " , but check out the " narration track " , for real laughs . Also notable is the inclusion of several scenes from the actual war , in color ; however , this footage would be more appropriately seen in a documentary . Flying Leathernecks ( 1951 ) Nicholas Ray - John Wayne , Robert Ryan , Jay C . Flippen
The Women Stand Out	John Wayne ( as Rocklin ) arrives to work at the " Topaz " ranch . He is accompanied by drunken driver George ' Gabby ' Hayes ( as Dave ) , and the ranch owner's distaff kin : Audrey Long ( as Clara Cardell ) and Elisabeth Risdon ( as Elizabeth Martin ) . Mr . Wayne bonds with boozy Mr . Hayes ; they share a chauvinistic dislike for women . Ms . Long is attracted to Wayne ; but , soon , so is tomboyish rancher Ella Raines ( as Arly Harolday ) . While the primly sensual Long and the fiery cowgirl Raines flirt unmercifully with him , Wayne must solve the murder of the freshly shot dead ranch owner . " Tall in the Saddle " is a mostly haphazard , unsatisfying western , highlighted by strong , familiar supporting performers . And , the film's women make most enjoyable viewing . Raines and blonde rival Long are great-looking ; and give great looks , to both Wayne and each other . Raines's cowgirl outfit is snug and sexy . Long is primly attired , but sensual ; a fact noticed by Raines as the women deliciously play a " check out the competition " scene . Veteran actress Risdon is the perfect contrast , a straight-laced old aunt . Sidekick Hayes gets to pal around ( too briefly ) with veteran actor Raymond Hatton ( as Zeke ) in some early scenes .
A Little Off the Top . . . and the Bottom	One of several attempts to talk-up William A . Wellman's high flying " Wings " ( 1927 ) . This time , the leading threesome form the more traditional triangle of love - - younger Marine pilot Ralph Graves ( as Lefty Phelps ) and his mentor / Sergeant Jack Holt as ( Panama Williams ) are in both love with lovely nurse Lila Lee ( as Elinor Murray ) . Ms . Lee loves Mr . Graves ( in a romantic way ) . Mr . Graves loves Lee ( in a romantic way ) and Mr . Holt ( in a fatherly way ) . Circumstances put the characters ' relationships in turmoil , and danger ? An interesting early effort by director Frank Capra ; but , of course , it is nowhere near his best . Harold Goodwin has a great supporting role ( as Steve Roberts ) . Graves and Holt are a reliable team . Graves seems a little younger and Holt a little older than they appear ; the actors are about the same age , however ; and , they have a nice rapport . Watch for a scene right after the " stuck in the mud " segment concludes - - in their tent , Holt scolds Graves for wanting to go out and get " tight " ; he tries to pull his pal's shirt off , but Graves resists . Then , the men wrestle , which ends up with Holt pulling Graves ' legs up to give him a spanking ! As a bonus , Graves ' hairpiece almost flips off his head !
avaJ fo tsaE , aotakraK	The film's title invites the irresistible observation , and convenient movie review , " Krakatoa is West of Java . " The movie's story is likewise without direction . For what seems like an interminable length of time , the volcano Krakatoa spurts and sputters - - you are teased by the threatening eruption . During this time , the film should be providing its great characterizations ; so , you really care about the people who are soon to be blanketed with volcanic lava and / or tsunami waters . That doesn't exactly happen . Some of the special effects are explosive . Stars Maximilian Schell ( as Captain Hanson ) and Diane Baker ( as Laura ) are fine performers , who seem to be trying their best with the material . Brian Keith ( as Connerly ) is wasted . Sal Mineo ( as Leoncavallo ) is the best supporting player ; though the director cuts away from him a little too soon following a nice " goodbye " scene with father Rossano Brazzi , it shows the most unused potential . Mr . Mineo resembles Marlon Brando in pensive medium shots - - too bad he didn't get more Brando-caliber scripts . Krakatoa , East of Java ( 1969 ) Bernard L . Kowalski - Maximilian Schell , Diane Baker , Sal Mineo
The Civil War is Predictable	During the US Civil War , Confederate Major James Craig ( as Clay Clayburn ) finds himself fighting Union Major Guy Madison ( as Will Denning ) . As is the case in most Civil War stories , the opposing soldiers once had a close relationship ; in this case , they were West Point buddies . Mr . Craig is also in love with a beautiful woman , Barbara Payton ( as Kathy Summers ) . This is a fairly predictable Civil War story . The dramatics are enhanced by Ms . Payton in the feminine lead . Payton is the most interesting player in the middling " Drums in the Deep South " ; with a better part , and direction , Payton might have been a much bigger star . Her biography is sad , and typical .
Summer of Mother Love	Clea DuVall ( as Cally ) was born in the cross-fire hurricane summer of 1968 . But , she never got a chance to howl at her ma in the driving rain ; sadly , her hippie mother abandoned her as a baby . In the more sedate ( present ) summer of 1985 , Ms . DuVall lives with her caring father Tomas Arana ( as Wade ) , on a San Francisco houseboat . She baby-sits , goes to parties , meets her boyfriend for necking , and cavorts with hunks on the beach . A restless and melancholy teenager , DuVall becomes intrigued with older blond Daryl Hannah ( as Sabine ) . Beautiful and freaky Ms . Hannah doesn't seem to want to have anything to do with DuVall . Thinking the woman is her long-lost mother , DuVall uses a mutual lover , Eric Roberts ( as Jacob ) , to learn about Hannah , and herself . Paul Ryan's photography is the film's main strength . DuVall is endearing . It's nice to see Roberts in a more " artistic " film . However , Melissa Painter's " Wildflowers " are just of reach . Wildflowers ( 1999 ) Melissa Painter - Clea DuVall , Daryl Hannah , Eric Roberts
Leo Gorcey gets a Licking and Keeps on Kicking	" The East Side Kids " are looking for leader Leo Gorcey ( as Ethelbert " Muggs " McGinnis ) , who is celebrating his 18th birthday ( several years too late , obviously ) . " Clancy Street " pals Huntz Hall ( as Glimpy Freedhoff ) , Bobby Jordan ( as Danny ) , Benny Bartlett ( as Benny ) , Ernest " Sammy " Morrison ( as Scruno ) , Dick Chandlee ( as Stash aka Skinny ) , and Eddie Mills ( as Dave aka Eddie ) give Mr . Gorcey's hind quarters 18 whacks with a paddle . To make it a gang-banging he won't forget , rival " Cherry Street " kid Billy Benedict ( as Butch ) forces Gorcey to bend over for 19 more bare-handed and paddle hits ( the 19th isn't one to grow on ; Mr . Benedict can't count ) . After taking some additional hits , from a policeman's stick , Gorcey learns his wealthy Texas uncle , Noah Berry ( as Pete Monahan ) , is coming to visit . Gorcey must produce the five brothers and a sister that he lied about having . He uses his " East Side Kids " , of course . Mr . Morrison offered up as " adopted " . And , Mr . Hall dons a dress and wig to become " little Annabelle " . Then , greedy gangsters discover the ruse . - " Clancy Street Boys " isn't much of a movie ; but , Gorcey's spankings and Hall's posing as a woman are amusing . Later , Gorcey married lovely guest-star Lita Ward . Clancy Street Boys ( / 43 ) William Beaudine - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Bobby Jordan
Digested Serial	In the 1840s , serial queen Neva Gerber ( as Sierra Sutter ) is " a girl of the primitive wilderness " ; conveniently , her father owns a large chunk of pre-state California . But , daddy Charles Brinley ( as John Sutter ) falls under the spell of vamping Ruth Royce ( as Arabella Ryan ) . And , Ms . Royce is in league with wicked Wilbur McGaugh ( as Marsdon ) ; together , they want to usurp California territory , and create an Evil Empire of the West . Gerber is in love with romantic adventurer Edmund Cobb ( as Cal Coleman ) ; together , they make California history . " This story is a bit of history of early California - a period of chivalry , intrigue and romance . " Trimmed down version of the 15-chapter " Days of ' 49 " . It would seem logical that multi-part serials could be edited down to superior feature length films ; but , it is almost never successful . This time , the episodic story is helped by capsulation . There are some nice shots , not limited to , but most clearly evident in , the film's finale . California in ' 49 ( 1924 ) Jacques Jaccard , Ben Wilson - Neva Gerber , Edmund Cobb
Coke Adds Life	Douglas Fairbanks ( as Coke Ennyday ) is the world's greatest scientific detective . A comic " Sherlock Holmes " , Mr . Fairbanks regulates his day with a special spinner-type clock - - with hands for " Sleep , " " Eat , " " Dope , " and " Drink . " . Obviously , given the name " Coke Ennyday " , doping is his preferred activity , and cocaine his drug of choice . Police Chief Tom Wilson ( as I . M . Keene ) implores Fairbanks to investigate suspected opium smuggler A . D . Sears . Along the way , he meets fish-blower Bessie Love ( her real name ) . Alma Rubens and Charles Stevens lend their support . All this , and written by D . W . Griffith and Tod Browning ! Due to its subject matter , " The Mystery of the Leaping Fish " has been elevated far above its worth . It is , nevertheless , fun . As the dope fiendish detective , Douglas Fairbanks hits the spot .
Script without a Net	After seeing the excellent " 13 West Street " ( 1962 ) , with Alan Ladd , I had high hopes for " The Man in the Net " . Another B & W film from his later years might be similar , I thought . I was very disappointed . This movie had , I thought , MORE going in : like , famed Director Michael Curtiz , and co-star Carolyn Jones . They were not at their best . As others have noticed , Ms . Jones does a totally-out-of-the-blue Bette Davis impression . I would have spotted her as a boozy floozy right off the bat , but even her BEST friend has no clue ? ? ? Mr . Ladd , great in " 13 West Street " and one of the only things worth watching in " The Carpetbaggers " ( 1964 ) , is not very good . The story is very weak . How is it that all the townspeople are stupid and their children so smart ? Despite the weakness of the premise , there are some interestingly played scenes ; the film does have a structure , which is easy and somewhat satisfying to follow , despite the implausibility . The Man in the Net ( 1959 ) Michael Curtiz - Alan Ladd , Carolyn Jones , Diane Brewster
Blue Turning Grey Over You	In 1861 , United States naval officer James Dunn ( as Kenneth Reynolds ) courts southern born Mae Clarke ( as Constance Jordan ) , the sister of his best friend , and fellow officer , David Manners ( as Raymond Jordan ) . When Civil War breaks out , Mr . Manners elects to join up with the Confederate States , alongside his home state of Virginia . Inevitably , Mr . Dunn must go into battle against his former friend , as sister Clarke begs him not to ? " Hearts in Bondage " reveals actor Lew Ayres to be a competent , promising director . Dunn , Clarke , and Manners don't do much for the admittedly predictable story . For awhile , it almost seemed like Henry B . Walthall was going to fight on the side of the North , but he defected to his " Birth of a Nation " roots . " Mammy " Etta McDaniel looks remarkably like her sister , Hattie . George " Gabby " Hayes and Smiley Burnette are among the well spotted character actors . Hearts in Bondage ( 1936 ) Lew Ayres - James Dunn , Mae Clarke , David Manners
Sheila Bromley is Bad Company	To go out partying , sweet Jane Bryan ( as Connie Heath ) borrows an evening dress from sassy Sheila Bromley ( as Hilda Engstrom ) . The dress turns out to be stolen ( from smartly attired Susan Hayward , in an early appearance ) . Thus , innocent Ms . Bryan is guilty by association with Ms . Bromley , a " wench " who answers job priority queries with , " Boys are my work . " Soon , Bryan becomes one of many " Girls on Probation " . Consequently , she loses her job , and sees her " criminal past " jeopardizing her romance with Ronald Reagan ( as Neil Dillon ) . Veterans Elisabeth Risdon & Sig Ruman ( as Roger and Kate Heath ) and handsome Anthony Averill ( as Tony Rand ) help make this cheap tale of degradation fun to watch . Bromley is an irresistibly trashy " bad girl " . Girls on Probation ( 1938 ) William McGann - Jane Bryan , Ronald Reagan , Sheila Bromley
Casting Stones	Spitfire ( 1934 ) John Cromwell - Katharine Hepburn , Ralph Bellamy , Robert Young Mountain hillbilly Katharine Hepburn ( as Trigger Hicks ) is a religious back-woods laundry woman . " Going on 18 " , she begins to attract male attention , and responds by throwing rocks . The arrival of a dam-building construction crew triggers dreams of romance in Ms . Hepburn . She quickly attracts the attention of suave engineer Robert Young ( as John Stafford ) , who flirtingly hides his marital status . Supervising engineer Ralph Bellamy ( as George Fleetwood ) is also interested in Hepburn , but for different reasons ; Mr . Bellamy wants to know more about Jesus Christ , whom Hepburn worships . After Hepburn employs the power of prayer to heal a child , neighborhood folks suspect she is a witch . If it weren't so serious , " Spitfire " might be more amusing ; it is an atypical and wildly inappropriate vehicle for its star , who is thoroughly unconvincing . Of the leads , Mr . Bellamy performs best . However , the best characterization is essayed by Sarah Haden ( as Etta Dawson ) , who appeared in George Cukor's stage version , along with Louis Mason ( as Bill Grayson ) . Will Geer ( as West Fry ) , " Grandpa Walton " in the 1970s , has a small role . An unexpected ending helps .
Fangs for the Throat	Make that one " Dead Man " walking . It's George Zucco ( as Dr . Elwyn Clayton ) , practitioner of the Black Arts , who has just been slain , by his abel ( okay , able ) look-alike brother George Zucco ( as Dr . Lloyd Clayton ) . The film's first mistake is not showing the murder ; instead , it is explained , by " bad " Zucco's companion Dwight Frye ( as Zolarr ) . As the vampire , Zucco keeps it all in the family by repeatedly going for the neck of pretty blonde niece Mary Carlisle ( Gayle Clayton ) , quite like they did on " Dark Shadows " . Ms . Carlisle's boyfriend , Nedrick Young ( Dr . David Bently ) , is , initially , nonplussed . Story development is unoriginal ; obviously , filmmakers expected everyone was familiar with the " Dracula " plot . This variation lets its possibilities slip away by leaving interesting new stones unturned . The graveyard scenes are atmospheric ; possibly , they are enhanced by the low budget . The film's conclusion really fires things up ; but , a lack of characterization and originality regarding the ending confrontation is a damper . The cast and crew perform well , under the circumstances . Dead Men Walk ( 1943 ) Sam Newfield - George Zucco , Mary Carlisle , Nedrick Young
A Long Day's Night	Matinée idol James O'Neill is said to have played " The Count of Monte Cristo " over 4 , 000 times on stage , beginning in 1875 . And , so , Mr . O'Neill was a natural choice to preserve his " own " interpretation of Dumas ' classic on film , as a " Famous Players " film production . Unfortunately , apart from Dantes ' voyage , this isn't much of a film ; most often , Edwin S . Porter's camera acts like a bored audience member . It's too bad , because Mr . O'Neill , even in his mature years , appears capable . The star's playwright son Eugene O'Neill based the character " James Tyrone " from " Long Day's Journey Into Night " on his father . And , the character in that play seems like he could be the actor here playing " The Count of Monte Cristo " . This is one to see if you're a film historian . The Count of Monte Cristo ( / 13 ) Edwin S . Porter - James O'Neill , Nance O'Neil , Murdock MacQuarrie
He Ain't Heavy , He's My Brother	" Siamese " twins Matt Damon and Greg Kinnear ( as Bob Tenor and Walt Tenor ) are joined at the hip ( and liver ) . They have been told surgical separation would risk Mr . Kinnear's life , because Mr . Damon possesses most of the pair's operating liver . The twins , who prefer to be called " conjoined " , work in a Martha's Vineyard hamburger joint ( " Quickee Burger " ) . Despite their disability , they lead relatively fulfilled lives . However , Damon has not been able to have a romantic relationship ; although , he has been corresponding with a Los Angeles woman on the Internet . Kinnear also has interests in the Hollywood area - he wants to move there , and pursue an acting career . In Hollywood , Kinnear gets a job on a TV show with Cher ( as Cher ) . Cher doesn't really want to do television , and uses her cast approval clause to hire Kinnear / Damon as co-star of " Honey and the Beaze " . She hopes the network will have difficulty with conjoined twins , and terminate her contract . Meanwhile , Damon has hit it off with Asian Internet sweetheart Wenn Yann Shih ( as May Fong ) ; but , he is hiding his physical limitations from her ? Neither gross nor funny , " Stuck on You " simply plays itself out . The film reaches its height during the satirical subplot featuring Cher , and her unwanted TV series . Eva Mendes ( as April Mercedes ) is another supporting attraction . Meryl Streep has two cameos ; the first one , in the tinted glasses , is better . Stuck on You ( 2003 ) Bobby Farrelly , Peter Farrelly - Greg Kinnear , Matt Damon , Cher
Uncle Sam Wants Who ?	While sharing a soda with a young blond boy , hapless Huntz Hall ( as Horace De Bussy " Sach " Jones ) mistakes a mock " Air Raid " drill for the real thing . Feeling patriotic , Mr . Hall takes three of " The Bowery Boys " to join the U . S . Army . Soon , wise guy leader Leo Gorcey ( as Terence Aloysius " Slip " Mahoney ) arrives to find father Bernard Gorcey ( as Louie Dumbrowsky ) has barricaded his " Sweet Shop " , fearing an attack . After learning his missing pals have gone to enlist , Mr . Gorcey seeks to retrieve them . But , Leo Gorcey is tricked into enlisting himself , by drill sergeant Donald MacBride ( as Herbert Frisbie ) . After turning the elder Gorcey away as too old , the Army recruits heroic " Major Dumbrowsky " , due to his past service record ( he invented the " hydrogen ray " ) . Meanwhile , son Gorcey , Hall , William " Billy " Benedict ( as Whitey ) , Buddy Gorman ( as Butch ) , and David Gorcey ( as Chuck ) provide Sgt . MacBride and the Army with " Bowery Boy " high-jinx . The best bit involves Gorcey and the gang unwittingly donning officers ' uniforms . MacBride's engaging " Sgt . Frisbie " characterization gives the tired , old plot some spark . Bowery Battalion ( / 51 ) William Beaudine - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Donald MacBride
On Trial for a Swim Suit	Ronald Reagan is a " Glamour Girl " painter , famous for his paintings of the sexy " Randolph Girl " . When his pal Eddie Bracken wants to meet her , Mr . Reagan reveals she's actually a composite of twelve beautiful women . One day , at the Beach , Mr . Bracken spots Virginia Mayo in a bathing suit - Ms . Mayo is their " Dream Girl " come true ! Alas , Mayo is an prim and proper schoolteacher type ! It's a very slight film ; but , it has a very good message , if you can stay with it until the end . You may get a kick out of : Reagan using an unplugged electric razor on what looks like a clean shaved face , nobody answering the question , " How many ' Ms ' are in the word Mississippi ? " and , Reagan and Mayo reciting Shakespeare . With " Beach " in the title and Virginia Mayo in the credits , you know what you're getting with " The Girl from Jones Beach " - ankles , legs , knees , torso ? but , stay calm , it's a 1949 film . The Girl from Jones Beach ( 1949 ) Peter Godfrey - Ronald Reagan , Virginia Mayo , Eddie Bracken
Bear with What Drink Did	Henry King ( as Bob Daley ) and Marguerite Nichols ( as Sylvia Sanford ) are engaged ; to celebrate , Mr . King goes out drinking with the boys . Meanwhile , " Baby " Marie Osborne ( as " Little " Mary ) sits with her ailing ( or abused ) mother Mollie McConnell . She gets Ms . McConnell a drink , and plays with her doll . King continues to drink ; so much so , he is late for a theater date with Ms . Nichols . Then , Mary's father stumbles home , obviously drunk , and fights with his wife . King finally arrives for his date , stumbling drunk ; furious , Nichols ends their engagement , and throws him out . Elsewhere , Osborne runs away from home ; her mother has died . So that she can get to Heaven faster , and see her mother again , " Little Mary " stows away in a fast car ; there , she meets the despondent King . Has Providence provided King's life with meaning ? This " Sunbeam " was a cute draw for viewers ; so , King starred in several more films with " Baby " Marie Osborne . King was more renown as a director ; and , Marguerite Nichols was , arguably , more renown as Mrs . Hal Roach . The early 1900s cars are very cool . The adults are more interesting viewing than the little girl - - her antics with a live bear are unsettling . Still , " Mr . Bear " always appears gentle on screen , even when chasing " Baby " Marie , after she gives him a bath , thanks to Providence , no doubt .
Muslim Monster Movie	" Betty ( Sally Field ) has come to the Middle East ( Iran ) with her daughter and native-born husband ( Alfred Molina ) for a visit with his family . But soon the horrible truth about their ' vacation ' surfaces . Betty's husband doesn't intend to bring his family back to America . . . ever . She may return , he says , but their daughter must stay . In a hostile , war-torn country , where even the slightest misstep can mean death , she makes a desperate bid to escape with her child , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . This Iranian husband , who reads newspapers at work printed in his own language , doesn't know how much his country has changed ? What on EARTH did Ms . Field's character see in this psychopath ? Did they cut the scene where someone deposits a giant pea-pod in his Iranian backyard ? The relationship between the two principles is totally unbelievable , with Mr . Molina faring the worse . One wonders what " American " citizens thought of Iranian immigrants after watching this film in 1991 . But , it plays ( as a monster " moody " ) . Not Without My Daughter ( / 91 ) Brian Gilbert - Sally Field , Alfred Molina , Sheila Rosenthal
From Love Shack to Death Row	Ex-circus performer Zita Johann ( as Nora Moran ) becomes a New York chorus girl . She meets up-and-coming politician Paul Cavanagh ( as Dick Crawford ) , and they begin an affair . Since Mr . Cavanagh is married , he sets up a " love shack " for trysts with Ms . Johann . After a few months of private bliss , an accidental murder ends their love affair . District Attorney Alan Dinehart ( as John Grant ) is assigned to prosecute Johann . Mr . Dinehart helped Cavanagh to win a state governorship , and is the brother of his cheated-on wife . Dinehart also narrates the story . Phil Goldstone's " The Sin of Nora Moran " is a structurally interesting , but ultimately fair-to-middling movie . The Sin of Nora Moran ( 1933 ) Phil Goldstone - Zita Johann , Paul Cavanagh , Alan Dinehart
Where the Boys Aren't	Four women , in various stages of romantic pursuit , " Follow the Boys " ( men , actually ) around European ports , mostly from a dilapidated old jalopy . The four females are : Connie Francis ( as Bonnie Pulaski ) , Paula Prentiss ( as Toni Denham ) , Janis Paige ( as Liz Bradville ) , and Dany Robin ( as Michele Perrier ) . Their " Boys " are : Russ Tamblyn ( as Wadsworth Smith ) , Richard Long ( as Peter Langley ) , Roger Perry ( as Billy Pulaski ) , and Ron Randell ( as Ben Bradville ) . The cast is likable ; but , the film is dull . Ms . Francis , not coincidently MGM's top selling recording artist , is especially noteworthy ; with relatively little experience in films , she performs as well as anyone . However , Francis isn't given enough to do ; and , neither is anyone else , as the film tries to feature everyone . After an Italian wine-stomping event , all's well that ends well .
Guess Who's Coming to Dinner ?	Invisible Ghost ( 1941 ) Joseph H . Lewis - Bela Lugosi , Clarence Muse , Betty Compson " Bella Lugosi stars in this Monogram thriller as Charles Kessler , a man living with his daughter while hoping for the return of his wife . Upon seeing her peeking through a window , he falls into a trance and murders the maid . The maid's boyfriend is framed for the murder and dies in the hands of the police . The man's twin brother and Kessler's daughter team up to clear the brother's name and discover the true identity of the killer , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . First of all , there is no " Invisible Ghost " . This was the first of Mr . Lugosi's " Monogram " movies ; and , predictably , the studio sought to cash-in on its star's previous horror success with the misleading title . The " ghost " is Betty Compson ( as Mrs . Kessler ) who survived a car crash while attempting to run away with her lover . Ms . Compson's status , and the identity of the killer , are not mysteries . Surprisingly , this does not , in itself , make the film uninteresting . With better scripting ( more attentive to character development and motivation and performances ) , " Invisible Ghost " could have been a fine picture . Though poorly edited , at times , the direction is sometimes artful ; for example , consider the slipshod scene regarding Jules ' " death " and the excellent " The Lord Is My Sheppard ? " sequence . The " romantic " couple , Polly Ann Young ( sister of Loretta , ending her film career ) and John McGuire would have benefited from more work on their characterizations ; interestingly Mr . McGuire's " Paul Dickson " is an improvement over his " Ralph Dickson " . A couple of supporting performances rise above the material . Compson's portrayal of the " crazed-with-guilt " wife is dead-on ; and , Clarence Muse ( as Evans ) ' s portrayal of Lugosi's manservant is a lesson in dignified acting .
Time After Time	Jazzy singer Frank Sinatra ( as Danny Webson Miller ) returns to Brooklyn , after serving during World War II . Mr . Sinatra moves in with his old high school janitor Jimmy Durante ( as Nick Lombardi ) . Sinatra suffers not from " shell shock " , but from " stage fright " , as he tries to make it in the music business . He falls in love with operatic soprano Kathryn Grayson ( as Anne Fielding ) . A " love triangle " is formed when visiting pal Peter Lawford ( as Jamie Shellgrove ) also falls for Ms . Grayson . Not much of a movie , really . Sinatra is the highlight ; he sings the timeless classic " Time After Time " , and other songs written by Sammy Cahn and Jule Styne . Sinatra and Mr . Durante are a likable team , performing " The Song's Gotta Come from the Heart " and " I Believe " , the latter with young Bobby Long ( as Johnny O'Brien ) . Young pianist Billy Roy ( as Leo Kardos ) performs well . Sexy Gloria Grahame has an early walk around appearance . Sinatra's accompanying Columbia single was , deservedly , an instant double-sided hit : " I Believe " ( # 5 ) / " Time After Time " ( # 16 ) .
Bad Blood	Mad scientist Boris Karloff ( as Dr . John Garth ) is sentenced to hang , as an admitted " mercy killer " . But , since his research in medicine is so important , Mr . Karloff is permitted to continue experimenting , in a laboratory behind bars . Karloff thinks human cells could be prompted to reproduce forever , curing both disease and old age . Believing he is going to be executed , Karloff uses his experimental serum on himself , and is transfused with the blood of a convicted murderer . Then , suddenly , Karloff is paroled . He becomes twenty years younger , but must fight the urge to kill , Kill , KILL ! A cheap , ludicrous , but bearable star vehicle . Before I Hang ( 1940 ) Nick Grinde - Boris Karloff , Evelyn Keyes , Pedro de Cordoba
Dressler for Mayor	" This story is dedicated to women , " according to the introduction , " who have been fighting for their rights ever since Adam and Eve started the loose-leaf system . " When " Politics " was filmed , the Nineteenth Amendment , guaranteeing women the right to vote , was only a decade old . And , the film deals with the wielding of political power by women as a voting group . Advocating prohibition , and shutting down speakeasies , was a main concern for women at the time . Good-natured Marie Dressler ( as Hattie Burns ) becomes politically active , after a young woman is shot and killed coming out of a speakeasy . She wants the liquor-selling joints closed ; and , is drafted into a Mayoral run , after delivering a powerful speech at a women's rally . Ms . Dressler is supported by her tenants , best friend Polly Moran ( as Ivy Higgins ) and her stuttering husband Roscoe Ates ( as Peter Higgins ) . Dressler's run for Mayor of Lake City draws opposition from men in town ; so , Dressler orders the women to go on strike , denying them , " everything " in the " parlor , bedroom , and bath . " The film sounds much better than it turned out . The humor , frankly , isn't too good ; and , it features some unfunny and moderately offensive situations ( " You look like Madame Queen " refers to an Amos and Andy character ) . And , the mixing of shootings and slapstick doesn't mix well , this time . Producers might have considered making the film more dramatic , focusing exclusively on Dressler and the characters played by William Bakewell ( as Benny Emerson ) and Karen Morley ( as Myrtle Burns ) . Politics ( / 31 ) Charles Reisner - Marie Dressler , Polly Moran , Roscoe Ates
I Am Legend ( Not )	As many others note , the plot and several scenes are eerily similar to the superior " Night of the Living Dead " . The fact that this film came first , and probably inspired the latter film , does not mean this film should be elevated ; it is not good . It isn't even original , being another adaptation of " I Am Legend " . I found myself wondering how Mr . Price's character is able to hold up in that house for a number of years - - Who keeps the electricity running ? How are food and water supplied ? Why don't these obviously very intelligent ( despite their appearance ) ghouls figure out a way to get into Price's house ? Well , those are only the beginning questions ? Price could have been helped by a bigger film budget . I thought the dog turned in the finest acting performance . The worst performance was that of the crying baby ; I guess the baby's Italian cry had to be dubbed into an English cry ? The Last Man on Earth ( 1964 ) Ubaldo Ragona , Sidney Salkow - Vincent Price , Franca Bettoia
Marion Meets the Moustache	Marion Davies moves unsteadily into sound films , as the title character in the musical " Marianne " . This was Davies ' first sound film ; a silent version was filmed earlier . In her first aural offering , Ms . Davies combines silent mannerisms with a sometimes lilting , sometimes grunting French accent . Davies is admired by several U . S . soldiers , but mostly Lawrence Gray ( as Stagg ) . Mr . Gray helps retrieve Davies ' stolen pig , albeit mostly eaten . There are several embarrassing scenes , but the film really goes downhill during a musical number involving Benny Rubin ( Sam ) and Cliff Edwards ( Soapy ) serenading a distraught Davies . This song and dance is followed by Davies doing deep knee bends , in drag , while bragging about her intimacy with a General . Later on , she does musical impressions of Maurice Chevalier and Sarah Bernhardt . They are not as fun as they sound ! Mr . Rubin sings " The Girl from Neufchâteau " extremely well , though ; his is the film's best musical performance . The best scene occurs with Davies in a military jeep , with Gray ; she is still disguised as a male officer , complete with moustache and a cap . The scene works because Davies , instead of playing a French woman , play-acts a French officer . Here , she proves herself an actress well-suited for talking pictures . You may also notice her sometimes uncanny resemblance to Lucille Ball ; especially , recall Ms . Ball's " Lucy Meets the Moustache " ( 1960 ) . It is most obvious Ball referenced some of Davies ' comic work .
Swipe of Dark Shadows	Attractive husband and wife writing team Robert Wagner ( as Joel Gregory ) and Kate Jackson ( as Donna Gregory ) arrive at the spooky mansion of actress " Lorna Love " ( actually , silent film star Harold Lloyd's house ) . Mr . Wagner and Ms . Jackson are contracted to write the silent movie star's biography . Wagner has a personal interest in the project , since his father was once the famed star's lover . Mysterious events unfold , and Jackson must fight to save her husband from the spirit of the beautiful blonde , who is " perfectly preserved " in a crypt on the estate ; moreover , the evil woman seems bent on possessing her husband , and murdering Jackson ! This is very much a " Night of Dark Shadows " variation , co-starring genuine " Dark Shadows " alumni Kate Jackson , who knows and plays her part well . Robert Wagner lacks David Selby's intensity . Sylvia Sidney ( as Mrs . Josephs ) sidesteps Grayson Hall . Marianna Hill is not a match for Lara Parker ( or Diana Millay ) . Bill Macy ( as Oscar Payne ) is good in a part that would have been played by John Karlen ( in a Dan Curtis production ) . There are smooth cameos by Joan Blondell , John Carradine , and Dorothy Lamour . Ms . Lamour's delivery resembles Joan Bennett , which begs the question : why didn't producer Aaron Spelling get more of the original " Dark Shadows " regulars ? Director E . W . Swackhamer was Bridget Hanley's husband ; he worked with Ms . Blondell on " Here Come the Brides " , and with Jackson on " The Rookies " . " Death at Love House " has , arguably , a tighter storyline than the " Night of Dark Shadows " film ; it differs in the movie star angle ; and , in its " Father Eternal Fire " ending , it more closely resembles the TVseries ' " Laura the Phoenix " storyline . Death at Love House ( / 76 ) E . W . Swackhamer - Robert Wagner , Kate Jackson , Sylvia Sidney
A Thanksgiving Story with Chorus	A modest wheat-growing family prepares for their " Harvest " . The southern foursome are : mother Dorothy Gish ( as Ellen Zalinka ) , father Ed Begley ( as Karl ) , son James Dean ( as Paul ) , and elderly Vaughn Taylor ( as " Gramp " ) . Mr . Taylor is looking forward to celebrating his 100th birthday . Ms . Gish has bought some new clothes , anticipating a healthy harvest . Mr . Dean is ending a summer affair with " city girl " Rebecca Welles ( as Arlene Ross ) ; but , he hopes to marry her , and leave the family farm . However , Dean is racked with restless guilt ; his two older brothers have already moved away , and he is the farm family's last hope . Father Begley thinks , " Farming's the most important thing in the world , " but Dean wants out . Suddenly , a violent hailstorm destroys the family's crop . Taylor dies , without realizing his 100th birthday dream . Then , Dean loses his girlfriend and joins the Navy ? This " Robert Montgomery Presents ? " drama certainly features a terrific " ensemble " cast . Mr . Montgomery promises " a talk " with Gish at the hour's conclusion ; but , it consists of only a " thank you " , and invitation to return for another teleplay . Mainly , " Harvest " is an opportunity to see Gish and Dean perform together , as mother and son . They do well , considering the medium . After performing a good scene together , Gish and Dean are unfazed by a stubborn coat rack ( there were no re-takes ) . By the fall of 1953 , Dean was appearing so frequently on television , he might as well have had his own daily dramatic program . He was a popular " juvenile " player . Dean's best scene may be the dinner he shares with the sophisticated " city " family in their summer cabin ; don't miss him offering to help " Herb " into his chair . The " city " and " country " table manners are fun to watch , thanks to Dean and Gish . Also , keep an eye out for " middle son " John Connell ( as Chuck ) , who outperforms ( albeit in a smaller role ) Begley , Dean , and Gish . Congratulations , Mr . Connell , you win the farm ! Montgomery hosts and narrates , in his typically pleasant manner . However , the drama's very LOUD " chorus " is so annoying , it just about turns " Harvest " into a Thanksgiving turkey . Harvest ( / 53 ) James Sheldon - Dorothy Gish , James Dean , John Connell
A Swell Bunch	Although she was past being a teenager when the original silent version of " The Road to Ruin " ( 1928 ) was made , beautiful Helen Foster ( as Ann Dixon ) is still an innocent young thing . After hanging out with bad girl Nell O'Day ( as Eve Monroe ) , Ms . Foster begins to smoke , drink , and have sex - nothing too unusual , when you consider the characters routinely being played by the likes of Bette Davis , Greta Garbo , and Mae West . But , things are worse for Foster ; she hasn't an abortionist worth his salt . . . Filmmaker Dorothy Davenport , aka the widow of Wallace Reid , might have considered casting the beloved couple's real life son Wally Jr . in the film . It might have been exploitive , but that , obviously , was too late a consideration . Despite the material , Glen Boles ( as Tommy ) , Bobby Quirk ( as Ed ) , and their gals are a swell bunch to follow ? before degradation takes its toll . The Road to Ruin ( / 34 ) Dorothy Davenport - Helen Foster , Glen Boles , Nell O'Day
Wedding Bell Blues	On his wedding day , nervous Harold Lloyd is one minute and four seconds late for a pre-nuptial meeting with impatient bride-to-be Bebe Daniels . Ms . Daniels scolds Mr . Lloyd , and persuades him to buy her " a few things " in a nearby store . After an hour of shopping , Daniels wants to go home for a frock change , leaving Lloyd to manage her towering purchases . Lloyd's method of getting the packages to Daniels ' home is the highlight of " I'm on My Way " . While Daniels dons a new outfit , Lloyd spends some time with neighbor " Snub " Pollard , who has been " married so long he has lost all sense of pain . " Mr . Pollard's bugling family and noisy neighbors give Lloyd second thoughts about going through with his own wedding plans . I'm on My Way ( 1919 ) Hal Roach - Harold Lloyd , ' Snub ' Pollard , Bebe Daniels
Gidget Gets Started	Sandra Dee gets to play the first " Gidget " ( combining " Girl and Midget " ) . She's seems too made-up and beautiful for the role , but she acts the perkiness well . James Darren has a good role with " Moondoggie " . Cliff Robertson is the " The Big Kahuna " of the beach . At different times , Ms . Dee's Gidget seems to want to : have fun , have sex , grow up , grow out , stay young , and / or learn to surf ( which is not at all unusual ) . Most of all , Gidget wants a boyfriend . This film seems much more significant in hindsight ; since , the Gidget character proved to be so enduring , and filmmakers discovered an audience for teenagers in swimsuits was ready for action . As a film , " Gidget " only fair , and its story is standard . I thought the most interesting part was Mr . Robertson's character - - do you want him to " grow up " and leave the beach , or should he become an old beach bum ? You do get an answer , at the end of the movie . Also interesting is how Robertson relates to the younger characters . The music is slight . Mr . Darren does the title song nicely ( later on ) ; and , the soundtrack often sounds like the melody to " Tammy " is about to begin . Gidget ( 1959 ) Paul Wendkos - Sandra Dee , James Darren , Cliff Robertson
Twenty-Three Skiddoo	" The nightmare begins when Walter Sparrow ( Jim Carrey ) , a mild-mannered dogcatcher , begins reading a tattered , used book called ' The Number 23 ' . Obsessed by the countless similarities between the degenerate main character and himself , Walter plunges headlong into the same dark , seductive world . When the book's main character commits an unspeakable act , Walter is terrified that he's destined to follow the same twisted path , " according to the film's official synopsis . " Pink has four letters , " the suicide blonde tells Mr . Carrey . " I don't get it , " he responds . Me neither . Not a bad idea , but not at all convincing . Please don't make " The Number 24 " . Now , if you take the letter " C " in Collins ( Lynn , who plays the blonde ) , and add it to the letter " T " in the main character Laura Tollins ' last name , you get 23 ! You see , " C " ( the 3rd letter ) + " T " ( the 20th letter ) = 23 . So , is " Laura Tollins " related to " Laura Collins " , the suicide blonde phoenix from " Dark Shadows " ? K-e-e-p Y-o-u-r E-y-e O-n T-h-e S-p-a-r-r-o-w . The Number 23 ( / 07 ) Joel Schumacher - Jim Carrey , Virginia Madsen , Logan Lerman
What Happened to Elvis ?	Elvis Presley ( as Mike Edwards ) goes to Seattle for their 1962 " World's Fair " ( set mainly in Culver City , though ) . Accompanying the singing pilot is his crop-dusting partner Gary Lockwood ( as Danny Burke ) . Along the way , they pick up cute little Vicky Tiu ( as Sue-Lin ) ; and , they agree to take her to the fair , for her uncle . Mr . Presley and Mr . Lockwood succumb to weaknesses for women and gambling , and lose little Miss Tiu . Presley sings ten songs ; he ogles shapely women , and falls for one Joan O'Brien ( as Diane Warren ) . Truly a FAIR film ; " It Happened at the World's Fair " is more disappointing in that it does , after all , star Elvis Presley , a man capable of so much more . Two of the ten new songs are worthy : " They Remind Me Too Much of You " is a strongly sung ballad ; and , " One Broken Heart for Sale " is a good , albeit medium-paced , rocker . The version of the latter song has an extra verse in the film , but the album version is punchier . Look out for future " Batgirl " Yvonne Craig ( Dorothy Johnson ) to really bust things up , in an early scene . At the fair , young Kurt Russell kicks Presley in the shins a couple times , after asking him , " Are you drunk ? " Not enough happened at the world's fair to justify the length of this movie . It Happened at the World's Fair ( 1963 ) Norman Taurog - Elvis Presley , Joan O'Brien , Gary Lockwood
This Apple Falls Very Far From the Tree	Ann Miler ( as Eve ) is a popular radio singer who wants to vacation after a successful season ; but , her handlers want her to film a movie . She leaves anyway ; then , her handlers give chase , forcing the star to hide out with William Wright ( as Ward ) , a traveling newspaperman . A series of misunderstandings threaten their chance for romance . This film was re-made as " You Can't Run Away From It " ( 1956 ) . It does compare favorably to that version ; I think the situation works better in an older , black and white film from ten years earlier ? and , this version is a re-make of an even earlier version , " It Happened One Night " . This one , " Eve Knew Her Apples " is really just okay . Ms . Miller is pretty . The production is weak , with the editing its most obvious distraction . Eve Knew Her Apples ( 1945 ) Will Jason - Ann Miller , William Wright , Ray Walker
Golden Years	In the modernizing old west , idealistic young married Ricky Nelson ( as Jeff Rose ) wants to become mayor of his corrupt town . Wife Kris Nelson ( as Hannah Rose ) is concerned about Mr . Nelson , especially after he gets beat up ; to help the Nelsons , her elderly grandfather Pat O'Brien ( as Oren Hayes ) summons his old Texas Rangers : Walter Brennan ( as Nash Crawford ) , Edgar Buchanan ( as Jason Fitch ) , and Chill Wills ( as George Agnew ) . Then , " The Over-the-Hill Gang " faces off against the less long-in-the-tooth gang led by Mayor Edward Andrews ( as Nard Lundy ) , Judge Andy Devine ( as Amos Polk ) , and Sheriff Jack Elam ( as Clyde Barnes ) . Former burlesque tease Gypsy Rose Lee ( as Cassie ) provides the old-timers with considerable feminine support ; it was her last screen appearance . The ordinary production scores points for casting and story idea , qualities which guaranteed a fair level of success on television .
Hunks Hunt Uranium	Hunky secret agent man Fabio Testi ( as Renzo ) beds women , hunts uranium , and pals around Venice with handsome hetero partner Assaf Dayan ( as Dan ) . Sexy Janet Agren ( as Helga ) provides the two with a amorous assignment , which Testi accepts . After bedding down with the quickly undressed damsel , Testi thinks she can offer no leads , but Mr . Dayan suspects otherwise . The best part of " The Uranium Conspiracy " is the lovely location scenery . The film's excitement grows much more exciting in its final act , with the dynamic duo of Testi and Dayan making an action-packed escape from some bad dudes . If that don't float your boat , order pizza , turn on the television , and watch something else . Agenten kennen keine Tränen ( 1978 ) Menahem Golan - Fabio Testi , Assi Dayan , Janet Agren
A Thrill and a Chill	In the dead of winter , pitiful little Adele DeGarde is sent out , by her mother , to beg on the streets ; the girl is unsuccessful , even with wealthy revelers , who are ending a celebration . Exhausted , little Adele lies down on some snowy steps , and falls fast asleep . Passing nobleman Owen Moore sees the girl , and pitifully drops a golden coin into her empty shoe . When passing gambler Charles Inslee spies the coin , he is unable to resist stealing it ; then , he uses " The Golden Louis " to win a fortune at the gambling table . A compassionate gambler , Mr . Inslee returns to share his winnings with little Adele ; but , she has wandered off ?
Fontaine of Love	London " Trafalgar Loan Co . " worker Derrick DeMarney ( as Michael " Mike " Ashburn ) must hold pretty young Joan Fontaine ( as Juliette " Julie " Evans ) for collateral against her uncle's £400 loan , due to an expensive pair of diamond earrings she wears . Ms . Fontaine claims the earrings have grown into her lobes , through excessive wear . Mr . DeMarney is engaged to boss Cecil Kellaway ( as Rufus Trent ) ' s beautiful daughter , Lilian Bond ( as Roberta Trent ) . Naturally , Fontaine and DeMarney find themselves becoming more and more attracted to each other . Fontaine looks very beautiful , as photographed by Roy Hunt ; early on , she looks especially lovely in an " magnifying glass " shot . The film is a fairly routine " programmer " . But , it features some cute scenes , and gets funnier in the second half ; the London setting , and British cast , help . Fontaine gets to perform the musical number " It Must Be Love " . No threat to Alice Faye or Ginger Rogers , Fontaine is better with the comedy ; but , she would soon find her greatest success with drama . Everything ends up as you'd expect . A livelier ending might have helped it add up to something more . Blond Cheat ( 1938 ) Joseph Santley - Joan Fontaine , Derrick De Marney , Cecil Kellaway
Burned !	" A man is unable to save his father from a fire that kills him and disfigures his sister . Sent away to a mental institution for evaluation , the man returns later to take up residence at his sister's home . Psychosomatically blinded by the incident , the man struggles with his life daily but finds things harder for him , when strange incidents begin to happen to him that has people doubting his sanity . Is it someone with a vendetta against him or is it something far more sinister ? " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Psycho-acting Anthony Perkins ( as Allen ) is good , gradually building up sympathy for his character's questionable point of view . Scarred sister Julie Harris ( as Katherine ) and girlfriend Joan Hackett ( as Olive ) provide fine support . Yet , this TV movie squanders everything in its final seconds , as the title " How Awful About Allen " is reprised . It's difficult to comprehend what is being suggested ; perhaps , it was meant to stifle the previous predictability . Good cast , though . How Awful About Allan ( / 70 ) Curtis Harrington - Anthony Perkins , Julie Harris , Joan Hackett
The Cruelest Day	It's Monday , April 1 at the morning " Megaphone " , the newspaper that's six months behind all big public events . Cub reporter Charley Chase ( as Jimmy Jump ) arrives to find the newsroom involved in " April Fool's Day " hi-jinks . Mr . Chase is the victim of several tired and true April fool jokes . For example , Chase drinks from a water dribble glass . Then , Chase sits in ink . And , Chase lights an exploding stogie . When the editor's wife telephones for help , after her house catches on fire , everyone thinks it's an April fool joke . Editor's daughter Blanche Mehaffey , whom Chase loves , wouldn't play a cruel April fool's joke on Chase , or would she ?
Angels with Dirty Faces	The script seems more coherent , compared to the last one . . . It's comic book live action storytelling . . . The production is very much like a string of music videos . . . The worst musical interlude is something involving angels Drew Barrymore ( Dylan ) , Cameron Diaz ( Natalie ) , and Lucy Liu ( Alex ) as " Sound of Music " nuns cruising a cute priest , then playing with bird poop . . . " Bosley " becomes a noun instead of a character , with Bernie Mac taking over the role - upping the level of " broad comedy " . The original series had a more subtle wit . The Angels don't show any more than they showed in the sexier " Charlie's Angels " ( 2000 ) . But , you do have a tighter story , and some much appreciated continuity . Original angel Jaclyn Smith ( Kelly ) makes a heavenly cameo appearance , and Demi Moore ( Madison ) " returns " from an untold intervening era . She seems a little like Kate Jackson , but takes a " wrong turn " . There is quite a long span before Moore emerges as a main character - after Barrymore's villainous former boyfriend takes center stage . Charlie's Angels : Full Throttle ( 2003 ) McG - Drew Barrymore , Cameron Diaz , Demi Moore
The Monster with the Invisible Touch	" A group of archaeologists is exploring mountains in a remote part of Greece when they stumble across an unexpected find . While blasting away the rock to find the hidden treasure , the explorers awaken a prehistoric creature with the power of invisibility . Only the shrieking cries of the approaching monster give its victims any warning to their terrifying fate , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Dubbed " Sound of Horror " in English , this Spanish horror film doesn't make a bit of sense , if you think about the plot . But , when you consider the time , and what the production must have cost , it manages to provide a fair bang for the buck . The direction , by José Antonio Nieves Conde , is exemplary . And , you get to see Soledad Miranda ( as Maria ) and Ingrid Pitt ( as Sofia ) play pretty roommates , potential rivals , and possible monster food . El sonido de la muerte ( 1964 ) José A . Nieves-Conde - James Philbrook , Soledad Miranda , Ingrid Pitt
Have Tea with Lillian Gish	Celebrated artist Roland Young ( as Priam Farrel ) is very successful ; but , he can't stand the limelight . Suddenly , his valet dies . As Young was reclusive , he is easily mistaken for the deceased servant . Then , Young meets lovely Lillian Gish ( as Alice Challice ) , who had been corresponding with his valet ; and , a romance blossoms . Unable to convince anyone of his true identity , Young happily marries Ms . Gish . Complications peak when the new " Mr . and Mrs . Henry Leek " are visited by the first Leek family . Dull version of the Arnold Bennett play " The Great Adventure " ( 1913 ) , which was most memorably filmed as " Holy Matrimony " ( 1943 ) . " His Double Life " is livened , however , by a rare 1930s film appearance by Gish . Though the presentation of the story is not at all convincing , Gish's performance is sincere . Her " tea party " with the original Leek family is the film's highlight . His Double Life ( 1933 ) Arthur Hopkins - Roland Young , Lillian Gish , Montagu Love
Deadpan Bedside Manners	Frank Powell ( as Dr . Harcourt ) , Florence Lawrence ( as Mrs . Harcourt ) and little Gladys Egan ( as Edith Harcourt ) are the perfect country family ; however , tragedy strikes their idyllic world when little Gladys becomes gravely ill . Fortunately , wealthy Harcourt is also " The Country Doctor " , and can sit by his daughter's bedside as she struggles to regain her health . Unfortunately , poor mother Kate Bruce and daughter Mary Pickford need Dr . Harcourt's services as Adele DeGarde , the girl in their family , is likewise bedridden . The good doctor is torn between his little girl and his responsibility as the town's doctor . G . W . Bitzer's Greenwich , Connecticut location footage is generous , and this film's highlight ; though , you'll wish it was better preserved . The story , dealing with a doctor's responsibility , is a good one . Both Mr . Powell and Ms . Lawrence go too far over-the-top in their portrayals this time around , however . Ms . Bruce and Ms . Pickford are more restrained , but little daughters Egan and DeGarde absolutely steal the show with their deadpan bedside manners , especially little Gladys !
Discriminating Vampires	In the near future , vampire and non-vampire people have a difficult time getting along . Renegade bloodsuckers don't help matters by creating vampire mischief among the tasty humans . In order to help a government plan to integrate vampires into mainstream society succeed , vampire cop Adrian Paul ( as Aaron Gray ) teams up with human cop Bokeem Woodbine ( as Steve Grant ) . Mr . Paul , who survived Nazis by becoming undead , is a vampire rights proponent . Paul is troubled by flashbacks , and has to avoid bloodlust . Mr . Woodbine has to overcome his prejudices against vampires , when he finds himself falling in love with sexy Chinese vampire Bai Ling ( as Lucy Westenra ) . Michael Oblowitz ' " The Breed " has a good supporting cast , and a stylish look ; but , the plot doesn't really dig . Most obviously , the mishmash of symbolism is confusing ; and , the movie becomes absurd . The " love story " between Woodbine and Ms . Ling has no teeth ; in fact , the shooting of a gay vampire's testicle is played as sexier . Nosferatu and Dracula are obviously referenced . And , so is horror queen Barbara Steele , who co-starred with Adrian Paul in " Dark Shadows " , as " Her name is Barbara Steele ? " introduces the film's most bloody victim . The Breed ( 2001 ) Michael Oblowitz - Adrian Paul , Bokeem Woodbine , Bai Ling
Felling the Cat	Young Lon McCallister has trouble making ends meet in depression-era Philadelphia , so he returns to his dead mother's rural hometown . There , he becomes involved with the town folk's soap opera past , and catches the eye of Peggy Ann Garner . Due to drought , a menacing cougar is on the scene , making the outdoors very dangerous for the movie's characters . . . There is a lot of fighting , with and without the cougar ; but , that's not the film's most interesting feature . More interesting is that the movie features a few " child stars " past their " Hollywood Prime . " On hand : Lon McCallister , from 1943's " Stage Door Canteen " and others , Peggy Ann Garner from 1945's " A Tree Grows in Brooklyn " and others , Skip Homeier from 1944's " Tomorrow , the World " and others , and Gene Reynolds from 1938's " Boys Town " and others . Mr . Reynolds won huge fame later , as a producer ( " MASH " ) . " The Big Cat " and the family dog win the acting honors . The Big Cat ( 1949 ) Phil Karlson - Lon McCallister , Peggy Ann Garner , Forrest Tucker
Hanging on the Telephone	Three burglars ( Owen Moore , Herbert Prior , and Anthony O'Sullivan ) lurk outside the Cullison estate . When the family butler and maid leave on a date , the burglars trick master-of-the-house David Miles ( as Robert Cullison ) into vacating the premises ; Mr . Miles doesn't know it , but the lurking trio are planning a robbery . After Miles leaves , the thieves terrorize helpless Marion Lenard ( as Mother Cullison ) and the three Cullison girls - - Mary Pickford , Gladys Egan , and Adele DeGarde . As the burglars bust in , Ms . Leonard's uses her telephone to desperately call for help ? For its time , " The Lonely Villa " likely packed an audience pleasing punch ; but it's rather ordinary , when compared to director D . W . Griffith's later revisitations of its story / situation . The location footage is a highlight , and the cutting of the Cullisons ' telephone cord is a nice touch . Ms . Pickford , with her relatively small stature , makes a convincing little girl . Real little girl Egan shines as the first Cullison who notices something is not quite right ? The Lonely Villa ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - David Miles , Marion Leonard , Mary Pickford
Show Girls Gone Wild	" A string of mysterious deaths and disappearances of young women have all been traced to a drama school , where all the girls were students . The district attorney suspects the school may be a front for a prostitution ring and sets out to investigate it . After the D . A . is blackmailed into dropping the investigation , a female reporter decides to go undercover to learn the truth , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Writer / director Elmer Clifton manages to squeeze a few drops of blood from this stone . A scene between villain Philip Van Zandt ( as King Peterson ) asking " Do you mind if I smoke ? " and hero John Archer ( as Jimmy Horton ) replying " I don't care if you burn " piques interest . Mr . Clifton and H . B . Warner ( as " Mac " McVeigh ) were bigger names during the silent film era ( look for Walter Long , also ) . Mr . Archer was a fine actor , who did not get the parts he deserved ; and it shows , in this film . Teenage Gale Storm ( as Mary Phillips ) , who unexpectedly became a 1950s TV and rock ' n ' roll era recording star , is irresistibly cute ; she , and brief pair of vivacious dancing girls , give the film some much-needed oomph . In spite of some strengths , " City of Missing Girls " remains oblique and recumbent . City of Missing Girls ( 1941 ) Elmer Clifton - John Archer , H . B . Warner , Gale Storm
A Chip Off the Old Blocks	Roy Rogers is summoned by Sheriff " Gabby " Hayes to save a modern day town from a gang of cattle-poisoning arsonists . Gabby believes Mr . Rogers , if elected Sheriff , will follow in the footsteps of his Roy Rogers namesakes ( including his father and grandfather ) . However , Rogers seems meek and mild ; though a popular man , townspeople wonder if he is up to the job . This is an interesting Rogers vehicle in that the character is presented as a hero perhaps not up to the task at hand ; no points for guessing how he does , finally ! There is the expected " shootout " to end the film , but it really peaks earlier as Rogers ' car is stolen ; he gets the car back in fine form . Rogers sings with Gabby , with Bob Nolan and the " Sons of the Pioneers " , and with some unfortunately intrusive dialog . Sons of the Pioneers ( 1942 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Maris Wrixon
Blimpie	Jules Verne had some great books , and there were some good film adaptations , but this isn't one of them . Vincent Price has a go at Verne's Mad Dictator , but is done in by a wavering budget . Some of the sequences are just silly . It's also silly to see Charles Bronson aboard ; he is not used to his best advantage . Mr . Bronson might have been better as the Master Robur . I couldn't figure out what was supposed to be going on with the men dangling by that rope - a statement about bad cooking on a blimp ? Robur has a warning , but this movie can't properly relay Verne's message , as presented . Master of the World ( 1961 ) William Witney - Vincent Price , Charles Bronson , Henry Hull
Just Say No For a Day	This film peaks near its beginning with a production number featuring Doris Day and Gene Nelson dancing with both an infinity mirrored wall and the New York skyline showing outside ( of some huge windows ) . The later production number , a blend of " No , No Nanette " and " Tea for Two " , is tellingly anti-climatic . The plot is easy - Ms . Day has to say " No " to everything for a day . But , the movie goes on and on with several songs and dances having little / nothing to do with the story . Other characters and sub-plots are thrown in ; with all the extra songs and dances , I have no trouble believing everything in this film was not in the original " No , No Nanette " . Some of it all is very good - Day and MacRae sing well , Gene Nelson dances well , and Eve Arden does her thing - but this feels more like a string of songs and scenes than a movie . Tea for Two ( / 50 ) David Butler - Doris Day , Gordon MacRae , Gene Nelson
Griffith Chalks Up One for the Indians	In a peaceful Indian ( aka Native American ) village , Owen Moore ( he's Silver Eagle ) courts squaw Lottie Pickford ( she's Minnewanna ) . Inevitably , white conquerors arrive ; at gunpoint , they force the Indian tribe to abandon their land . For nefarious reasons , the conquerors keep lovely Lottie for themselves , sadly separating her from departing sweetheart Moore . Must the Indian sweethearts remain forever apart ? ( Mary's sister ) Lottie Pickford is a beguiling Indian squaw . Director D . W . Griffith's " The Red Man's View " scores points for its point-of-view ; however , it remains a relatively weak and unimaginative drama .
Mary Pickford Goes Up a Hill to Fetch a Pail of Water	Boyhood chums James Kirkwood ( as Joe Fielding ) and Harry Solter ( as Sam Walters ) are both smitten with fair lady Mary Pickford ( as Kittie Ryan ) . When she goes up a hill to fetch a pail of water , both Mr . Kirkwood and Mr . Solter want to help . Ms . Pickford shows a preference for Kirkwood , and allows him to carry her pail , which leaves the jealous Solter fuming . While Pickford does not return Kirkwood's favor either a kiss or an embrace ; still , the two men decide she's worth dying for - - and , they agree on a duel to the death ? Pickford steals the show ; her scolding of the men , and successful " reconciliation " scene is a highlight , along with the outdoor New Jersey landscape , of " The Renunciation " . Consider the possibility that Pickford's production of " fiancé " Billy Quick might be due to her character's quick thinking , after she realizes her rivals ' plan to duel .
Jack Lord Takes the Pilot Seat	Dark-suited good guy Jack Lord ( as Jabin " Jab " Harlan ) , who likes to operate " Above the Law " , has been hired to track down the man who framed an innocent Kansas man . To achieve his mission , Mr . Lord allows a criminal named Scanlon ( John Kellogg ) to escape capture by Reese ( Neville Brand ) . Instead of bringing in Scanlon , Reese takes Lord into Laredo . There , Lord briefly meets Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) ; and , he argues with Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) about working outside the law . Undaunted , Lord sets out to complete his mission , with Reese tracking his progress . . . This episode is an obvious " try-out " for Jack Lord as a TV series star ; and , he does have the presence and ability to carry the hour . Lord is quite good in the " western " genre ; and , his Emerson ( and Shakespeare ) quoting vigilante character is very appealing . This premise , if a " pilot " , did not become a television series . In a few years , Lord would find great TV success as police detective " Steve McGarrett " on " Hawaii Five-O " . Reese provides good " sidekick " support ; and , Lola Albright ( as Lilah ) is a strong guest star . This isn't much of a " Laredo " episode ; but , it is a fairly effective showcase for the guest star . Laredo - Above the Law ( / 66 ) Richard Benedict - Jack Lord , Neville Brand , Lola Albright
Go Fish	On the Fire ( 1919 ) Hal Roach - Harold Lloyd , ' Snub ' Pollard , Bebe Daniels Harold Lloyd is employed as " The Chef " for a fancy restaurant . Mr . Lloyd is obviously not one to labor over a hot stove ; instead , he has the kitchen equipped with all kinds of common gadgets . The gadgets , including gardening tools , help him prepare food , while Lloyd relaxes with a cigarette . The kitchen may be imaginatively set up , but it isn't funny . Later , when Lloyd goes out to wait on tables , the Hal Roach comedy picks up considerably . Lloyd is worth waiting for . " Snub " Pollard plays an amusing assistant chef , plate slinger , and bottle washer ; and , Bebe Daniels is an expectedly irresistible restaurant patron .
En Garde !	Reese ( Neville Brand ) interrupts an abduction , saving handsome Donnelly Rhodes ( as Don Carlos ) and beautiful Madlyn Rhue ( as Dona Dolores ) from apparent death . As a reward , the young couple's dying father gratefully gives Reese a partnership in his estate . As it turns out , the old man's estate includes land ownership of most of the county , including the city of Laredo . Unaware the duo are part of a land scam , Reese is elevated to tycoon overnight . Chad ( Peter Brown ) and Joe ( William Smith ) ponder life at Company B without Reese , and Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) gives him a leave of absence . Reese joins Mr . Rhodes and Ms . Rhue on the Board of Directors at the bank . As the fraudulent owners steal the Laredo citizens ' assets , Capt . Parmalee suspects the new landlords may not be kosher . This is a nicely performed , albeit mediocre , episode . Rhodes , Rhue , and banker Barry Kelley ( as Quinn O'Connell ) doing very well in their featured roles . The regular cast shines , too , with Chad humorously trying to make Reese a " gentleman " worthy of the title , by teaching him to fence . Listen for Peter Brown to speak both Spanish and French . The Would-Be Gentleman of Laredo ( / 66 ) Earl Bellamy - Neville Brand , Peter Brown , Donnelly Rhodes
Promoting Israel	" The Wandering Jew " , or " The Life Story of Theodore Herzl " , is a propagandized biography of the Austrian who is considered the founder of Zionism - - the political movement which resulted in the creation of the country Israel in what was Palestine . Mr . Herzl's movement was successful , of course ; in 1948 , following World War II , the nation of Israel was returned to existence . This film clearly considers the movement to be God's will . If the restoration of Israel was divinely inspired , the film certainly isn't - - it's relatively unexciting . More interesting is the history of discrimination and persecution of the Jewish people ; countered by their determination , and vision . There are many remarkable intertitles , which seem as if they could have been written decades later . For example , one reads : " The holocaust of persecution . An era of gruesome carnage and massacre of Jews unparalleled since the persecution of the Christians by the Romans . Christendom , appalled at the fanatical barbarity ? " Father Rudolph Schildkraut ( as " The Wandering Jew " ) and son Joseph Schildkraut appear intermittently ; the younger Schildkraut went from this appearance to US stardom in " Orphans of the Storm " ( 1921 ) , and beyond . " The Wandering Jew " seems to be differ from the title character , perhaps he is a Moses type ; it's a confusing , and possibly unflattering , character . Ernst Bath staidly plays Herzl . Camera movement is minimal .
William Smith Loses His Shirt	When old friend Albert Salmi ( as Cletus Grogan ) visits pal Reese ( Neville Brand ) in Laredo , accidents begin to happen . Mr . Salmi thinks he is a " Jinx " . Reese decides to help his friend overcome superstition by having Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) sign him up as a Texas Ranger . Then , Chad ( Peter Brown ) hurts his shoulder ; and , Joe ( William Smith ) is kidnapped by Shelley Morrison ( as Linda Little Trees ) and her Native American Indian gang . . . Is the " Jinx " real ? Good direction ( Paul Stanley ) , performances , and a promising storyline are stopped dead by the reappearance of Laredo's comic-relief Indians , now led by ludicrous licorice-munching " Linda Little Trees " . Ms . Morrison , to her credit , performs the part endearingly and inoffensively , however . Salmi is another a fine guest star . This is the first episode to feature Smith's " Joe " more prominently than his co-stars ; and , he plays most of the episode with his shirt off , which arouses Morrison , who ties him to a tree and proposes ! Morrison , Salmi , and Smith are worth watching for . Laredo - Jinx ( / 65 ) Paul Stanley - William Smith , Albert Salmi , Shelley Morrison
Donna Reed answers the Call	With her film career fading , Donna Reed answered the television call . That black thing ringing in each episode's catchy theme song is what a " telephone " looked like in the 1950s - and , it must have been an upscale model . Producer husband Tony Owen and the ever elegant Ms . Reed assembled a terrific TV family : Donna Reed ( as Donna Stone ) , Carl Betz ( as Alex Stone ) , Shelley Fabares ( as Mary Stone ) , and Paul Peterson ( as Jeff Stone ) . They looked like a family even before the arrival of Paul's little sister ( 1963 ) . In the first aired episode , Donna tries to arrange a skiing weekend for the family , because she and the kids aren't seeing enough of father Alex . Donna can't understand why their obstetrician friend Jackie Kelk ( as Burt " Bo " Boland ) can get off , but not Alex . This one's okay , but the seventh episode's " Three-Part Mother " plays like a better series introduction . Weekend Trip ( / 58 ) Andrew McCullough - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Jackie Kelk
Donna and the Family Stone	Although aired later , this episode seems to introduce the series ( perhaps , it was the " pilot " ) . The show opens with Donna Reed ( as Donna Stone ) rising from her twin bed ; she wears a sexy nightgown , and looks lovingly made-up . Her charming voice-over introduces the Stone family : pediatrician husband Alex ( Carl Betz ) , 14-year-old daughter Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) , and 11-year-old son Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) . Donna wears a brand new dress to serve breakfast , but Alex doesn't notice . Everyone is adjusting well , as they've moved from the city to small-town " Hilldale " - except Donna , who simply can't attend all the functions her busy family has scheduled . Don't worry , she'll manage . Three-Part Mother ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Paul Peterson
Comedy Off Course	William Haines ( as Jack Kelly ) is a shipping clerk , and an avid golfer ; he is much more interested in the hobby than the livelihood . Mr . Haines ' golfing prowess earns him a two week membership in the ritzy " Oakmont Country Club " , where he meets fetching young Joan Crawford ( as Allie Monte ) . Of course , Ms . Crawford assumes the dashing Haines is a well-heeled member of the " golf set " . Will she still love him if she finds out he is poor ? Haines ' wardrobe is remarkably ill fitting in the opening scenes ; and , as a result , he rather badly tears the right sleeve of his jacket . It's quite noticeable after he enters the workplace , following the initial golfing scene . Also , watch for Haines to tap another man's derrière , very quickly , as he passes the man , after entering the shipping company . Haines and Crawford are a great screen team ; especially , their rapport is evident when he shows her how to improve her golf game - which develops into a courtship . But , overall , " Spring Fever " is fairly routine . There are a few witty title cards , and scenes . George K . Arthur ( as Eustace Tewksbury ) stands out among the fine supporting cast . Considering the situation and cast , the film is a letdown . It might have been improved by more directly involving Haines and Mr . Arthur in some more comic interplay ( on the golf course ) . Spring Fever ( 1927 ) Edward Sedgwick - William Haines , Joan Crawford , George K . Arthur
Basketball Builds Better Boys	After some juvenile delinquents are caught stealing sporting goods , " Big Town " reporter Hillary Brooke ( as Lorelei Kilbourne ) coerces boyfriend , and " Illustrated Press " managing editor , Phillip Reed ( as Steve Wilson ) into taking responsibility for the gang of five , during their probationary period . Mr . Reed coaches the young men in a basketball team called the " Big Shots " , and covers their human interest story in his paper . But , leader-type " Big Shot " Stanley Clements ( as Tommy Malone ) is tempted by underworld types . Can Mr . Clements , Darryl Hickman ( as Harold " Skinny " Peters ) , Carl " Alfalfa " Switzer ( as Frankie Sneed ) , Roland Dupree ( as John " Pinky " Jones ) , and Tommy Bond ( as Waldo " Dumb Dumb " Riggs ) stay out of reform school ? Big Town Scandal ( / 48 ) William C . Thomas - Phillip Reed , Hillary Brooke , Stanley Clements
Don't Mess with Witches	" A woman is put to death after bring accused of witchcraft . Her daughter confronts the man who accused her mother of the crime , and discovers the true reason for the accusation , but loses her life in doing so . The youngest daughter is taken in by the man's family and raised by them , with the intent to marry her off to the man's son . When the girl comes of age , her decreased sister returns to exact her revenge upon the family , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " This story takes place at the end of the fifteenth century , " we are advised . Director Antonio Margheriti and the crew give it a great look . That , an attractive cast , and the moody atmosphere can't make up for the fact that the film plays itself out very slowly , and winds up nowhere special . Barbara Steele ( as Mary / Helen Karnstein ) looks particularly stunning ; probably , she inspired the US title : " The Long Hair of Death " ( but , what a way to go ) . Strange how drastically Halina Zalewska ( as Elizabeth Karnstein ) changes her mind about George Ardisson ( as Kurt Humboldt ) , after Ms . Steele ( re ) emerges on the scene . I lunghi capelli della morte ( 1964 ) Antonio Margheriti - Barbara Steele , George Ardisson , Halina Zalewska
Donna Plays Baby Detective	At the breakfast table , Donna ( Donna Reed ) reminds her family that Fintan Meyler ( as Kathleen ) , an Irish woman with no boyfriends , will be coming to clean the house today . After Alex ( Carl Betz ) leaves for work , Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) goes to see if milkman Paul Picerni ( as Tony ) has arrived ; instead , she finds an abandoned baby in a basket , left on the Stone's doorstep . An accompanying note says , " Dear Mrs . Stone , his name is Willie . He's a good boy and hardly ever cries . Please love him and take care of him for me . God bless you . " Initially , Donna and Mary feel motherly ; but , Jeff doesn't want a baby brother . Alex returns , and wants to call the police . Donna decides to play baby detective ; and , he gets to the bottom of the baby mystery - with predictable results . This first episode written by John Whedon has a " social consciousness " angle ; and , Mr . Picerni's portrayal of the well-meaning milkman is its highlight . The Foundling ( / 58 ) John Whedon - Donna Reed , Paul Picerni , Fintan Meyler
As the Worms Turn	A parasite that's " a combination of aphrodisiac and venereal disease , and will hopefully turn the world into one beautiful , mindless orgy " is unleashed in a luxurious Canadian hotel . Despite director / writer David Cronenberg's script , " Shivers " isn't any great shakes as a bloody erotic horror . Mr . Cronenberg shows promise , however ; and , there are at least three sexy scenes . First , you have luscious Lynn Lowry ( as Forsythe ) sexily undressing . Also , still beautiful Barbara Steele ( as Betts ) takes a bath ; and , later , engages Susan Petrie ( as Janine Tudor ) in a seductive Lesbian kiss . Other than that , the movie features more bad hair than anything else . Cronenberg could have gotten off more steam by setting the maniacal sex parasites loose in a college . Paul Hampton ( as Roger St Luc ) emerges as the last man standing . Imaginatively re-titled " They Came from Within " and " The Parasite Murders " . Shivers ( 1975 ) David Cronenberg - Paul Hampton , Lynn Lowry , Barbara Steele
Happy , Happy Birthday Donna	Donna ( Donna Reed ) says she wants nothing special for her birthday , but Alex ( Carl Betz ) isn't so sure . He becomes aware Donna has been admiring a ( reduced to ) $65 beaded bag , at the town's upscale " Carter's " , and thinks she is trying to arrange for him to buy her the bag . Meanwhile , Jeff is broke , and asks sister Mary to lend him some money ( incidentally , Mary loses five cents on the dollar ; and , Jeff needs to watch out for tables ) . Writer Nate Monaster and convincing appearances by Mary Treen and Angela Greene had me wondering . . . Ms . Reed , of course , conveys her character properly . The Beaded Bag ( / 58 ) Nate Monaster - Donna Reed , Carl Betz , Mary Treen
It's Not an Earthquake , It's Only Uncle Fred	Chaos reigns in the Stone house , thanks to a visit from boastful and gregarious Rhys Williams ( as " Uncle Fred " Sutton ) . Soon , Mr . Williams ' outspokenness causes a rift between Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) and her boyfriend . He also fails to open a Saturday playground for Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) , and insults one of Alex ( Carl Betz ) ' s patients . As the well-meaning visitor's sister , Donna ( Donna Reed ) is employed ask him to leave , with predictable results . . . The young Stone siblings are clearly entertained by Williams ' guest appearance , which must have been a lot of fun . The Busy Body ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Rhys Williams , Carl Betz
Boxing Camp for East Side Kids	Bobby Jordan ( as Danny ) thinks Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs ) could be a champion boxer , so he tricks " The East Side Kids " leader into signing up with a training camp for young boxers . At first , Mr . Gorcey is disgruntled - but , eventually , he works out , with young Mr . Jordan as his trainer . Bowery mates Donald Haines ( as Skinny ) and David Gorcey ( as Peewee ) cheer leader Gorcey in his match with handsome Kenneth Howell ( as Alan ) . When Gorcey tries to help out fellow camper Bobby Stone ( as Willie ) , he is falsely accused of stealing . To clear his pal , Jordan comes out swinging ? Pride of the Bowery ( / 40 ) Joseph H . Lewis - Leo Gorcey , Bobby Jordan , Kenneth Howell
The Eyes Have It	Along the coast of Cornwall , duplicitous Charles Laughton ( as Sir Humphrey Pengallan ) helps budding romantic twosome Maureen O'Hara ( as Mary ) and Robert Newton ( as Jem Trehearne ) fight smuggling pirates . Everyone comes to the conveniently shore-situated " Jamaica Inn " , where leader Leslie Banks ( as Josh Merlyn ) and his gang hang out . Alfred Hitchcock directed this old English costume drama , before taking his work to Hollywood . So , there are some understandably well-directed moments ; and , the coastal and cave scenes are nicely done . However , " Jamaica Inn " is a poorly staged version of Daphne du Maurier's novel . The actors and director make it mildly entertaining ; but , the story does not captivate . Apparently , the cast had a contest involving outrageous eye make-up , which Mr . Laughton obviously won ( by a hair ) . Jamaica Inn ( 1939 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Charles Laughton , Maureen O'Hara , Robert Newton
Strangers in the Night	" A young woman suffers from the delusion that she is a werewolf , based upon a family legend of an ancestor accused of and killed for allegedly being one . Due to her past treatment by men , she travels the countryside seducing and killing the men she meets . Falling in love with a kind man , her life appears to take a turn for the better when she is raped and her lover is killed by a band of thugs . Traumatized again by these latest events , the woman returns to her violent ways and seeks revenge on the thugs , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Rino Di Silvestro's " La lupa mannara " begins with full frontal , writhing , moaning dance by shapely blonde Annik Borel , who ( as Daniella Neseri ) mistakenly believes she is a werewolf . The hottest part is when the camera catches background fire between her legs . The opening " flashback " reveals her hairy ancestor was ( probably ) a lycanthropic creature . Ms . Borel is , unfortunately , not a werewolf ; she is merely a very strong lunatic . As a film , " Werewolf Woman " ( in English ) would have been better if Borel's character really was a female werewolf ; with her sexual victimization a great bit of characterization . But , as far as 1970s skin and blood flicks go , this one is hard to beat . Bouncy Borel is either nude or sexily clad throughout the film , which features a fair amount of gratuitous gore . Dazzling Dagmar Lassander ( as Elena ) and hunky Howard Ross ( as Luca ) are good supporting players .
Water Under the Bridge	Seafaring young Robert Wagner ( as Gilbert Barrows ) wants to impress pretty blonde Dolores Hart ( as Elinor Harrison ) ; so , he innocently takes her on a cruise with a gang of bank robbers , led by disearnest Ernie Kovacs ( as Bugsy " The Captain " Foglemeyer ) . Mr . Wagner thinks Mr . Kovacs and crew are experienced sailors ; but , they prove to be the gang that couldn't sail straight . Ms . Hart and curvy bad-girl Carolyn Jones ( as Virginia ) get tipsy . Frankie Avalon ( as Rodney ) swings , sings , and twirls . Frank Gorshin , Jesse White , Harvey Lembeck , and Sid Tomack are all aboard . Kovacs is good ( unexpectedly and unfortunately , this was his last screen appearance ) . Some of the others in the cast are curiously ordinary . A hurricane gets the cast wet . Mr . Avalon is fairly successful , focusing on light comedy ; he was , at time , successfully transitioning to a movie career . On the other hand , Avalon's singing of " Opposites Attract " reveals his less successful foray into the swingin ' Sinatra arena . The song , and a version of the " Sail a Crooked Ship " title were non-hit tracks on an Avalon LP . The film's comic highlight may be Wagner's use of Hart's bra as a slingshot . It's that funny . Sail a Crooked Ship ( 1961 ) Irving Brecher - Robert Wagner , Ernie Kovacs , Frankie Avalon
Kathleen Freeman Butts In	Donna ( Donna Reed ) and Alex ( Carl Betz ) return home from a dinner party to learn that neighbor Kathleen Freeman ( as Celia Wilgus ) almost called the police , due to a noisy " party " at the Stone's house . Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) confesses , " Some of my friends stopped by , " including a bongo drummer . Their parents warn Mary and Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) , " People expect a doctor and his family to set an example . " So , when Jeff injures his arm in the drummer's stolen car , he's afraid to see his father for treatment . Posing as " John Smith " , he goes to another pediatrician . . . This cute episode is highlighted by the dependable and delightful Ms . Freeman's first appearance in the series . Jeff's Double Life ( / 59 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Paul Peterson , Kathleen Freeman
In the Deep End	It's a " fatal attraction " for handsome high school swimmer Jesse Bradford ( as Ben Cronin ) when sexy " Swimfan " Erika Christensen ( as Madison Bell ) can't get into her sticky locker . After Mr . Bradford helps the voluptuous Ms . Christensen get into the locker , she succeeds in getting into his swimming trunks . Bradford wants their wet encounter to remain a " one night stand " , but Christensen wants more . She goes psycho . Soon , high school life for Bradford and sweet , steady girlfriend Shiri Appleby ( as Amy Miller ) is filled with misery ? and murder . " Swimfan " is smoothly directed by John Polson , nicely photographed by Giles Nuttgens , and contains some engaging performances - but , the film is really very ordinary . The story misses opportunities to plot new ground . And , the " younger " performers are clearly too old to be in high school ( they might have tried a " community college " setting ) . The supporting cast includes Richard Burton's daughter Kate ( a very sweet lady ) , and John Ritter's son Randy ( nepotism doesn't run in the Ritter family , it gallops ) . Swimfan ( 2002 ) John Polson - Jesse Bradford , Erika Christensen , Shiri Appleby
Kiss My Asp	In Hawaii , surfing motorcyclist Nathan Phillips ( as Sean Jones ) witnesses a gruesome murder . FBI agent Samuel L . Jackson ( as Neville Flynn ) puts Mr . Phillips in the " witness protection program " to protect him until he can testify against the bad guys . Mr . Jackson commandeers a plane headed for Los Angeles . Jackson and Phillips take off ; in flight , stewardesses Julianna Margulies ( as Claire ) and Sunny Mabrey ( Tiffany ) get hot for them . Some stereotypical-type passengers are along for the ride . They are all surprised , on the plane , by hundreds of stowaway snakes . The snakes are poisonous , " hyper-aggressive " , and extremely nippy - and , they demonstrate an early preference for human sex organs . Yikes ! " Snakes on a Plane " is imaginatively titled , at least . Unfortunately , it's not as successful as something like Ron Underwood's " Tremors " . And , there is no performance like Shelley Winters ' in " The Poseidon Adventure " . The rampaging snakes simply aren't very interesting . Some of them are cute . There is excitement , and a little humor . The music , especially the opening and closing songs , is cool . This would be a great movie to see in flight , on a plane ( as I am tired of seeing movies about cute bees ) . Snakes on a Plane ( 2006 ) David R . Ellis - Samuel L . Jackson , Sean Jones , Julianna Margulies
Historical Hooey	This " story inspired by the tradition of Betsy Ross " is historical fiction . Accordingly , white-wigged Francis X . Bushman ( as George Washington ) requests seamstress Enid Bennett ( as Betsy Ross ) to design " The Flag " for the impending United States of America , because the Revolutionary forces fly a confusing assortment of banners . While Mr . Bushman commands the Rebel forces , Ms . Bennett is housing forlorn Alice Calhoun ( as Edith Brandon ) , who has a husband fighting for the opposing Royalists . Noble warrior Johnny Walker ( as Charles Brandon ) and Bushman's Washington fight a bloodless Revolutionary War like perfect gentlemen . The " enemies " seem to know they will , someday , be World War I allies . Hollywood hooey most notable for Ray Rennahan's Technicolor photography , and Bushman's appearance . The Flag ( 1927 ) Arthur Maude - Cast : Francis X . Bushman , Enid Bennett , Johnnie Walker
Tim Burton Goes Ape	The good news is that this re-make doesn't completely ruin the original ; still , if you haven't seen the 1968 " Planet of the Apes " , view the older film first . That film's " landmark " moment is one of the all-time great moments in science fiction films . The " memorial " in this new version is a science fiction failure , a cheap stunt , which makes no contextual sense . What else ? well , this film has all-talking , clean-shaved humans . The sophisticated 1968 model apes are abandoned in favor of goofiness . The " attraction " between human Mark Wahlberg ( as Leo Davidson ) and chimp woman Helen Bonham Carter ( as Ari ) dies on the vine . And , worst of all , Roddy McDowall is no longer available . . . Planet of the Apes ( 2001 ) Tim Burton - Mark Wahlberg , Tim Roth , Helen Bonham Carter
No Sign of Life in the Russell Crowe & Meg Ryan Romance	Hostage retrieval expert Russell Crowe ( as Terry Thorne ) is recruited to retrieve the South American businessman husband of Meg Ryan ( as Alice Bowman ) . The Marxist rebel kidnapping coke-heads want an impossible to obtain $3 , 000 , 000 for the safe return of " K & R " ( it means " Kidnap and Ransom " ) victim David Morse ( as Peter Bowman ) . The " Proof of Life " title refers to a picture taken of the victim ; with a currently dated newspaper , it proves he is alive when ransom is demanded . For some reason , Ms . Ryan pretends to smoke cigarettes ; either it's an attempt to convey her character's frayed nerves , or Ryan is trying to send " kiss me " smoke signals to Mr . Crowe . In one scene , supporting actor David Caruso ( as Dino ) acts well enough to let the viewer know something is going on between the Crowe and Ryan , who underplay their romantic attraction to the point of lethargy . Some of the location scenery is very beautiful , but the film is disappointingly dull . Proof of Life ( 2000 ) Taylor Hackford - Russell Crowe , Meg Ryan , David Morse
Kenneth Branagh's " Frankenstein "	This curious , good-looking version of Mary Shelley's " Frankenstein " was promoted as faithful to the original work - and , although is follows events much more closely than the familiar version , its changes make it a more different , distant work than you might expect . The overriding theme is not man creating artificial life , and the consequences of this action . Instead , this film is about Kenneth Branagh ( as Victor Frankenstein ) desiring Helena Bonham Carter ( as Elizabeth ) . As he is unable to consummate their relationship , the sexually frustrated Mr . Branagh goes crazy and creates a artificial , monster man . Both are drenched in goopy embryonic fluid , with Branagh displaying his chest most prominently . The created Robert De Niro ( as Frankenstein's Creature ) wants to mate , just like his creator . But , when Branagh is about to have sex ( finally ) with Ms . Carter , Mr . De Niro interrupts . After a near encounter with De Niro , Carter expires . Then , she is brought back to life , with the same face gashes De Niro displays . By the way , why do the creatures have these face gashes ? Anyway , now you have two sexually frustrated men vying for the same , once pretty " Bride of Frankenstein " - and , they don't care how she looks anymore ! Will Branagh ( or even De Niro ) ever get to consummate with Carter ? Two dizzying hours later , will you care ? Frankenstein ( 1994 ) Kenneth Branagh , Robert De Niro , Helena Bonham Carter
Hart to Heart	William S . Hart ( as Jim Treen ) , the most eligible bachelor in Canyon City , is finally getting hitched , to pretty blonde waitress Leona Hutton ( as Molly Stewart ) . His fiancée doesn't know it , but Mr . Hart is secretly the western town's " Most Wanted " bandit . However , Hart is planning to go straight , due to his marriage plans . Unfortunately , Ms . Hutton discovers Hart's secret stash , whilst cleaning up his untidy cabin ; so , she calls off the wedding . Next , Hutton succumbs to the charms of mining swindler Frank Borzage ( as W . Sloane Carey ) . Serviceable entertainment from superstar Hart ; he was ranked no less than # 1 at the box office , by Quigley Publications , for the years 1915 and 1916 ( ahead of Mary Pickford ) . The principles perform capably . Later on , Frank Borzage was quite a director ; and Leona Hutton , a suicide . . . A Knight of the Trails ( / 15 ) William S . Hart - William S . Hart , Leona Hutton , Frank Borzage
Turtle Soup for the Soul	Ronald Reagan ( he's Bill ) and Eleanor Parker ( she's Sally ) are very unsteady in this " comedy / drama " about a soldier and an actress falling in love when circumstances force him to spend the night with her ( notorious New York hotels during wartime , you know ) . Eve Arden ( she's Olive ) walks away with the acting honors . Mr . Reagan doesn't portray the temptation or love very well . ; he does have a good comic scene , moving very smoothly as he hides out in the kitchen from advancing Ms . Arden ( who also has her sights on Reagan ) . Ms . Parker unevenly attempts to add some dimension to her role , with varying success ; watch how she takes a sip out of drinks to even them out ( I guess ) . Particularly , watch for the scene where Reagan has to help Parker out of her dress - and imagine what Rock Hudson and Doris Day would have done with the comic overtones obviously intended in the script . That scene serves as good review . Oh , and sometimes it looks like Reagan can't believe her hair , either ! " The Voice of the Turtle " aka " One for the Book " is worth a little look . The Voice of the Turtle ( 1947 ) Irving Rapper - Eleanor Parker , Ronald Reagan , Eve Arden
Checking In , Checking Out	The " Hotel Continental " has seen 50 years of romance , intrigue , and tragedy . But , in one day , the bustling building is going be demolished , " until the last brick is carted away . " Its " last night " attracts many nostalgic patrons to the " Continental " , but most importantly ( for the sake of this motion picture ) , it attracts embezzler Theodore von Eltz ( as James Bennett ) . The suave Mr . Von Eltz has just finished a stint in prison , and needs to collect a stash of money before the hotel closes . Von Eltz checks in as " A . R . Cooper " , and maneuvers his way into the suite where he stashed the money . Along the way , he falls in love with suicidal Peggy Shannon ( as Ruth Carleton ) . Von Eltz doesn't know it , but the duplicitous Ms . Shannon has ulterior motives ! You will need to check your brain at the door of the " Hotel Continental " , if you want to fully enjoy the movie . There is NO WAY this building is ready to be torn down . Every fixture remains in place - probably , even the soap and towels haven't been removed . The place is , also , doing rather brisk business . Mostly , director Christy Cabanne follows the Von Eltz / Shannon storyline , with drunken Irishman Bert Roach ( as Charlie Layton ) providing comic relief . Mr . Cabanne was a D . W . Griffith " Biograph " veteran , as was Henry B . Walthall , who has a small role ( as Tommy Winthrop ) . " Tiffany Productions " got this film out in time to get some box office overflow from MGM's impending " Grand Hotel " . Hotel Continental ( 1932 ) Christy Cabanne - Theodore von Eltz , Peggy Shannon , Bert Roach
A Cool Characterization from Delphi Lawrence	" A scientist is working on a suspended animation process where a human being is frozen and then revived later . Deciding to use himself as a guinea pig , the scientist has his assistant place him into suspended animation to prove the process works . While in the process , the scientist's ex-wife ( sic ) is murdered ( sic ) and he becomes the prime suspect in her death , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Actually , the woman is not " the scientist's ex-wife " , and nobody is conventionally " murdered " . The scientists in question are dedicated veteran Mark Stevens ( as Dr . Frank Overton ) and his attractive young assistant , Marianne Koch ( as Dr . Helen Wieland ) . They are drawn to each other at work , a fact first noticed by Mr . Stevens ' perceptive wife , Delphi Lawrence ( as Joan Overton ) . The cybernetics storyline seems most interesting , initially ; but , Ms . Lawrence's characterization is the best part of " Der Fall X701 " ( re-titled " Frozen Alive " ) . Lawrence pouts , shouts , drinks , and smokes up the screen ; she not only steals her scenes , but also the entire movie .
Summer of ' 69	Summer means a break from high school for Wes Stern ( as Kenny Leeds ) , Ricky Kelman ( as Mike Decker ) , and Wink Roberts ( as Tommy Kingsley ) . The three young men ride bikes , go swimming , and think about having sex . After his widowed father goes off on a pleasure trip with a sexy secretary , Mr . Stern is sent to live with his grandparents , in Buffalo . Meanwhile , Mr . Kelman and Mr . Roberts are sent to summer camp . Stern is lonely , and writes to his friends about traveling across the border to Canada ( at Niagara Falls ) , where claims to be a regular customer at a whorehouse he calls " Rosie's " . Naturally , Kelman and Roberts want a piece of the action , and surprise Stern with a visit . The lads are eager to sample the prostitutes Stern has bragged about - but , of course , the brothel doesn't exist . After seeing the more asexual Canadian sights , the three pick-up beautiful Jacqueline Bisset ( as Anna ) , and take her to their hotel room ? Just ridiculous . Stern , the leading man , is supposed to be playing a young teenager ( he will be returning to high school in the fall ) . He is obviously too old , but has a goofy quality that helps make the movie's " coming-of-age " theme bearable . Stern's plaintive questions to Ms . Bisset about why girls don't like him is nicely played . Bisset has about one and a half sexy scenes ( you'll see a lot more of Niagara Falls ) . So , why would Bisset's English accent be a problem at the Canadian border ? The First Time ( / 69 ) James Neilson - Wes Stern , Jacqueline Bisset , Ricky Kelman
Rosalind Russell's Incredible Journey	Rosalind Russell is a patriotic widow with time on her hands . She decides to volunteer her services as a spy for the C . I . A . Agreeing her retiring housewife manner makes her a good candidate for undercover work , the C . I . A . accepts " Mrs . Pollifax - Spy " , and assigns her a mission - she is to obtain some microfilm from an operative in Mexico . The plan goes badly , however ; Mrs . Pollifax is handcuffed to Darren McGavin , then kidnapped by Communists . The film starts off nicely , with Ms . Russell in good form , convincing both the C . I . A . and the viewer that " Mrs . Pollifax - Spy " is a good concept . Don't be fooled into thinking the movie is about a lady James Bond , however . Russell as Pollifax is abducted quickly , and spends the entire film in DANGER - she endures prison , scales mountains , and braves the raging rapids . It all looks silly , and unrealistic . We don't get a chance to see her succeed in a few cases , getting to know the character and seeing her worth . We have no idea why the " mission " is important . Mr . McGavin only begins to help later in the film ; otherwise , he's bedridden and uninterested . A " lady sleuth " role might have been a better choice for Russell , at this point in her career . Mrs . Pollifax - Spy ( / 71 ) Leslie Martinson - Rosalind Russell , Darren McGavin , Dana Elcar
It's Water Under the Bridge	In the beautiful hills of Scotland , Lassie is a good-for-nothing collie . Afraid of water , the dog lets sheep drown . So , owner Rhys Williams ( as Milton ) trades her in , to lovable old doctor Edmund Gwenn ( as William MacLure ) . Mr . Williams ' son Tom Drake ( as Tammas Milton ) is studying doctoring with Mr . Gwenn , but his father wants him to be a farmer . Mr . Drake is courting pretty young Janet Leigh ( as Margit Mitchell ) . A colorful MGM gloss makes " Hills of Home " pleasant viewing , at times . The movie winds up far less carefully made than the initial scenic images suggest , however . It's nice to see Donald Crisp return to Lassie's supporting cast ; his scenes with Gwenn provide some Scottish accented fun . Lassie veteran Tom Drake and starlet Janet Leigh are nice , but the lack of a child co-star hurts the story . Lassie's crossing of a river's broken bridge , to save her master , it a film highlight ; though , it's difficult to accept Lassie was ever afraid of water .
Luke's Lagoon	Luke Halpin ( as Sandy Ricks ) is home alone when he's informed said home is going to be taken away by the state of Florida ; apparently , the state has let the land to the Ricks family , and they need it back . Mr . Halpin's father Brian Kelly ( as Porter Ricks ) is away , and mother Martha has passed away since the original " Flipper " ( 1963 ) . Halpin is majorly concerned , because losing the home means losing the shore where he lives with pet dolphin Flipper . Halpin and Flipper run away from home ; incredibly , they find an isolated island nearby , and take up residence . AND , wouldn't you know it ? - kidnappers are also nearby ; they snag a British father , and let his wife Helen Perry ( as Julia ) and daughters Pamela Franklin ( as Penny ) & Francesca Annis ( as Gwen ) drift to Halpin's island paradise . Ms . Franklin performs well as Halpin's emerging co-star . Halpin's performance is touching ; he and Flipper carry the film . With all of the newness and nuances gone , this sequel is certainly not up to the original . The story is so wildly implausible , Flipper should have shouted , " RE-WRITE ! " Just for starters , Ms . Perry and " Gwen " must have very poor vision , hearing , and critical thinking skills not to figure out about Halpin . And , the songs are awfully lush . The ending holds some excitement , if you last . Halpin is still cute - older by a few years , due to the first " Flipper " being on the shelf for a few years . Flipper is still cute , too ; and , TV father Brian Kelly is on board , replacing Chuck Connors as father Ricks . Flipper's New Adventure ( 1964 ) Leon Benson - Luke Halpin , Pamela Franklin , Brian Kelly
That Giant Sucking Sound	" The ' U . S . S . Cygnus ' is perched precariously at the edge of a Black Hole - the vast , empty nothingness where space and time end . Anything that crosses its border enters a universe of the complete unknown . And so begins a story that only Disney's film magicians could tell . A story of robots and humanoids . Of human genius and madness . And a spectacular descent into nature's ultimate mystery - ' The Black Hole ' , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Peter Ellenshaw , Frank Phillips , and the Disney crew create some marvelous visuals , but this story is mind-numbingly dumb . It seems to be a combination of " Star Wars " ( a combination Jack Kirby and " Lost In Space " ) , " 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea " , and ( last , but not least ) " The Bible " ( ? ) . Whatever they were attempting does not work . The story is laughable , unfortunately ; at least , Roddy McDowall ( as Vincent ) and Slim Pickens ( as Bob ) manage to " save face " . The Black Hole ( 1979 ) Gary Nelson - Robert Forster , Maximilian Schell , Yvette Mimieux
Pretty Vacant	Adonis-like Peter Gallagher ( as Michael Pappas ) and gorgeous blonde girlfriend Daryl Hannah ( as Cathy Featherstone ) go to the Greek islands , for a hot vacation . Despite their youth and beauty , the couple feels their sexual sparkplug needs recharging . Ms . Hannah reads a " How to ? " book , and introduces some bondage and candle wax into the relationship . But , after seeing sexy French sunbather Valérie Quennessen ( as Lina ) , Mr . Gallagher has a better idea ! Writer / director Randal Kleiser's " Summer Lovers " is more of a modeling than a film assignment for the three stars ; but , to their credit , they try to act , as well as look , good . The lovely location footage is adorned by acres of young , tanned skin . A generous amount of nudity is on display . Soft core rock tunes and protruding Greek sculptures attempt to pound home a point , but there isn't much going down , here . And , the leading ladies never really hook up , on-screen . It's nice to see veteran babe Barbara Rush ( as Jean Featherstone ) and former " Lucy " - extra Carole Cook ( as Barbara Foster ) give the storyline a kick the pants , when they discover the ménage à trois . Ms . Rush and Ms . Cook are always an asset . Hans van Tongeren , who was a promising young actor , has a good supporting role ( as Jan Tolin ) ; sadly , he committed suicide around the time this film was released . These interesting asides don't make the film anything greater than lightweight fluff , however . Summer Lovers ( 1982 ) Randal Kleiser - Peter Gallagher , Daryl Hannah , Valérie Quennessen
A Brief History of Spine	" Stephen Hawke is a moneylender whose compassion for his clients is only outshined by his devotion to his lovely daughter . What she and the rest of the public don't know is that Stephen Hawke is leading a double life . At night , he becomes ' The Spine Breaker ' , a notorious killer with the habit of viciously killing his victims in the most horrible ways imaginable , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Silly movie , enriched as much as possible by two under-appreciated British stars - murderous Tod Slaughter ( as Stephen Hawke ) and Shakespearian Eric Portman ( as Matthew Trimble ) - both deserving better productions . The Crimes of Stephen Hawke ( 1936 ) George King - Tod Slaughter , Eric Portman , Marjorie Taylor
An Extended Episode of " The F . B . I . "	It's " The F . B . I . " starring Broderick Crawford , with special guest star Ruth Roman . The film begins promising - you expect a great interwoven , mysterious plot ; but , it doesn't really work out that way . Instead , it's an extended TV crime drama , with stuff that may have been a little too sexy and violent for the time ( so , couldn't they have put SOME bruise make-up on the blind woman ? ) . The title " Down Three Dark Streets " refers to three seemingly unrelated crimes Mr . Broderick's F . B . I . solves . It seems like you need a notepad to keep track of events , but you'll get along by paying attention to the extortion plot involving Ms . Roman . Performance-wise , it's Roman's film . There are a lot of recognizable faces , though . Martha Hyer gives a Marilyn Monroe-type performance , as directed ( Arnold Laven ) . Other than that , there are some Los Angeles-area location scenes that are very nice to see ; the location scenery is the movie's highlight - climaxing by the " HOLLYWOOD sign " . Down Three Dark Streets ( 1954 ) Arnold Laven - Ruth Roman , Broderick Crawford , Martha Hyer
Cheap Freak Show	Enterprising " Times Herald " reporter John Harron ( as Jerry Ross ) investigates " The Murder in the Museum " of a city councilman . This " Museum " isn't what you may be expecting ; although there appear to be a few paintings on display , it's really a traveling freak show - " The World's Largest Collection of Natural and Unnatural Wonders " . Among the attractions : an armless man , a bodiless woman , and the mysterious Henry B . Walthall ( as " Professor Mysto " aka Bernard Latham Wayne ) . Patrons seem more interested in scantily-clad dancing women ; unfortunately , they are told to keep it " tame it down plenty " when " the law " is spotted . The " Sphere Museum " is also a front for drug-runners ( which has attracted police and politicians ) . Just before the murder , Mr . Harron meets shapely blonde Phyllis Barrington ( as Lois Brandon ) ; and , the two fall in love . Mr . Walthall is appropriately mystic ; his casting , alongside the brother of frequent co-star Robert Harron , is inspired . Unfortunately , this production is very poor . The cast and crew manage to get through the picture smoothly enough , considering the obvious lack of rehearsals and re-takes . The Murder in the Museum ( 1934 ) Melville Shyer - John Harron , Henry B . Walthall , Phyllis Barrington
Flesh and Blood	Undercover New York police officers Eric Roberts ( as Kit Adrian ) and Romano Orzari ( as Jay Flowers ) go up against a ruthless Russian mafia , pretending to work for bleached-blond crime lord Shawn Doyle ( as Anton Seaberg ) . Mr . Roberts invites even more danger by sleeping with the enemy's estranged wife , luscious Lucie Laurier ( as Lena ) . This film's obvious intent is to bring female flesh and human blood to the home box office crowd , without resorting to anything hard-core . The female flesh is real , and the human blood is fake . On a cheap blood and guts level , " Stiletto Dance " is successful . Mr . Orzari and Yaphet Kotto ( as Captain Sands ) provide star Roberts with solid support . But , it's really Mr . Doyle's characterization of the temperamental bad guy , who keeps it moving . Stiletto Dance ( 2001 ) Mario Azzopardi - Eric Roberts , Shawn Doyle , Romano Orzari
Sold Out	The head of a common New York family , Jane Gail ( as Mary Barton ) , works with her younger sister Ethel Grandin ( as Loma Barton ) at " Smyrner's Candy Store " . After Ms . Grandin is abducted by dealers in the buying and selling of women as prostituted slaves , Ms . Gail and her policeman boyfriend Matt Moore ( as Larry Burke ) must rescue the virtue-threatened young woman . " Traffic in Souls " has a reputation that is difficult to support - it isn't remarkably well done , and it doesn't show anything very unique in having a young woman's " virtue " threatened by sex traders . Perhaps , it can be supported as a film which dealt with the topic in a greater than customary length ( claimed to have been ten reels , originally ) . The New York City location scenes are the main attraction , after all these years . The panning of the prisoners behind bars is memorable , because nothing else seems able to make the cameras move . Traffic in Souls ( / 13 ) George Loane Tucker - Jane Gail , Matt Moore , Ethel Grandin
Daisy Picks Leslie Howard	After his engagement to alluring socialite Myrna Loy ( as Cecilia Henry ) , Connecticut publisher Leslie Howard ( as Tom Collier ) learns former friend and lover , artist Ann Harding ( as Daisy Sage ) , is returning to an apartment they shared . Professing her undying love , Ms . Harding startles Mr . Howard by proposing he marry her , instead ; and , as Harding notes , she is accepting Howard's numerous past proposals . Howard is conflicted , but chooses to marry Ms . Loy . Yet , Howard can't forget Harding - does he love Loy , Harding , or both ? " The Animal Kingdom " is a sleepy , spineless version of Philip Barry's stage play - but , it has a good cast . The Animal Kingdom ( / 32 ) Edward H . Griffith - Leslie Howard , Ann Harding , Myrna Loy
Scent of a Woman	Stopping by Henry B . Walthall's " Parfumerie " , Nobleman Francis J . Grandon finds himself attracted by the scent of a woman - - it's Perfumer Walthall's young wife Florence Barker . Later , Mr . Grandon is unable to forget his attraction . . He thinks Ms . Barker is " formidable " ; and , he invites her to an upcoming fete . Baker politely declines , claiming she has nothing to wear . Not one to take " non " for an answer , Grandon insists upon taking Barker out shopping . Baker is a woman who can't resist a new outfit ; so , she goes off with her infatuated pursuer . Soon , she is dressed like a Queen , acting royal ; and , she forgets poor husband Walthall . He tries to win her back , but is rebuked . After his wife becomes the mistress of Noble Grandon , Walthall contemplates suicide ; however , he is saved by a convenient priest . So , when the French Revolution begins , Walthall becomes one of its leaders , revolting against the aristocratic tyranny represented by those like the Nobleman who stole his wife . Soon , Walthall and his revolutionaries reach Barker and Grandon - - what terrible revenge might Walthall seek ? In this " Story of the French Revolution " , from director D . W . Griffith , New Jersey is dressed up as France , for an exciting outdoorsy finish . Walthall , in bushy eyebrows , excels ; note how he smells a garment near the end , to confirm his wife's presence . As a story , " The Oath and the Man " fails to suspend a great amount of disbelief .
Thank God I'm a Country Boy	Elvis Presley plays a troubled young " country boy " who faces The Law after administering a deadly punch . He receives parole ; then , the court has him move in with his uncle , and attend counseling sessions . There are three women who incur Elvis ' attentions - Hope Lange is the " sophisticated " psychiatrist , Tuesday Weld is the " sexy " cousin , and Millie Perkins is the " nice " girl . The story's structure is much like " Jailhouse Rock " . It differs from that film in that Elvis more prowess as a actor than a singer . What hurts the film is a plodding story which becomes to hard to understand . It seems to be about the difference in societal classes . The religious imagery gets very heavy when , during a " flood " , people march into a motel " two by two " with Elvis quoting the Bible . Elvis ' status as an undiscovered writer is made believable during a scene where the script give him some imaginative dialog , which he delivers well . Eventually , the film turns into a soap opera - more contrived than authentic . A couple of songs are nice , but they add nothing to the story . Wild in the Country ( 1961 ) Philip Dunne - Elvis Presley , Hope Lange , Tuesday Weld
Joan Woodbury Works It	As a young lass , beautiful Joan Woodbury ( as Rita Adams ) was orphaned , after her " stool pigeon " father was shot to death . As a young woman , Ms . Woodbury finds herself struggling to keep a job , as her murdered father's ex-convict status makes Woodbury a bad business risk . Woodbury rooms with understanding songstress Linda Ware ( as Donna Andrews ) , who advises Woodbury to get in touch with old orphanage friends John Archer ( as Bob Elliott ) and Jack La Rue ( as Mickey Roman ) . But , none of her friends can help when Woodbury is the victim of a scam , which lands her in prison . Upon release , Woodbury decides to give the male mobsters a run for their money ? Re-titled " Gangs , Inc . " , this is an obviously weak , cheap mobster melodrama . Still , it's a lot of fun to watch Woodbury work wonders with inferior material . She plays the innocent growing more sophisticated " Rita " quite convincingly ; and , she tosses in a great bit as a blonde hooker . Woodbury must be added to the list of unfortunately underutilized Hollywood actresses of the past . " Paper Bullets " also features an early Alan Ladd ( as Jimmy Kelly aka Bill Dugan ) . Ms . Ware , who sang the hit " An Apple for the Teacher " with Bing Crosby , sings a couple of fair ' 40s numbers nicely . But , mainly , it's Woodbury's show . Paper Bullets ( 1941 ) Phil Rosen - Joan Woodbury , Linda Ware , Alan Ladd
Joan Bennett Shows Some Leg	Joan Bennett is tempting as " The Housekeeper's Daughter " . Ms . Bennett is given some great lines , fine direction ( Hal Roach ) , and neat things to do - like putting those thigh bells on ! She has a past , which comes back to haunt . . . she was involved with Victor Mature and a bunch of gangsters . Bennett desires the son in the house she tends , and he is a reporter working on a crime which begins to involve Bennett's past life . There is an interesting accidental " Houseboat Murder " to solve . Adolphe Menjou and William Gargan are okay as a couple of reporters . Overall , I found the " slapstick " is often more annoying than enjoying . " Benny " makes a mean cup of coffee . The Housekeeper's Daughter ( 1939 ) Hal Roach - Joan Bennett , Adolphe Menjou , William Gargan
A Connecticut Yankee in Marie Dressler's Court	On Long Island , crooner Rudy Vallee and His Connecticut Yankees are mistaken for a more famous band , by neighboring socialite Marie Dressler ( as Mrs . Whitehall ) . The ruse , which started innocently , goes too far , and threatens Mr . Vallee's budding relationship with Ms . Dressler's niece , Sally Blane ( as Jean Whitehall ) . It all works out while Vallee sings several songs , including " I'm Just a Vagabond Lover " and " A Little Kiss Each Morning ( A Little Kiss Each Night ) " . " The Vagabond Lover " does not capture the Vallee hysteria , unfortunately . It is his first feature length film . The songs are stylistically representative , but dull ; " Honey " had already appeared in a " short " , and the film was completed too early for " The Stein Song " to be included . Ms . Blane ( Loretta Young's sister ) is very pretty ; but , the most beautiful woman in the film is most definitely Dressler . It is her first feature length sound film . Later , Vallee would become a surprisingly effective ( considering this performance ) character actor . The Vagabond Lover ( 1929 ) Marshall Neilan - Rudy Vallee , Sally Blane , Marie Dressler
George K . Arthur plays The Boob	Country boy George K . Arthur ( as Peter Good ) is in love with Gertrude Olmstead ( as Amy ) , but she has taken up smooching with city-slicker Tony D'Algy ( as Harry Benson ) . Mr . Arthur dons western Tom Mix-type clothing to appear more manly , but Ms . Olmstead is unimpressed . Arthur suspicions that Mr . D'Algy is really a criminal bootlegger are proved to be correct ; and , Arthur must rescue Olmstead from D'Algy's clutches ? Though he is a likable character , this is a dated-to-the-point-of-unfunny comedy feature for Arthur . Most unfunny is Charles Murray ( as Cactus Jim ) ' s running gag about hiding his endless supply of booze - - helped , no doubt , by bootleggers . Joan Crawford ( as Jane ) lifts spirits considerably , with her turn as a crack revenue agent ; and , D'Algy is a good kisser . " The Boob " is more of a curiosity than a comedy ; and , it's a chance to see some silent performers in well-preserved celluloid .
Gorilla and the Ritzs	" This Ritz Brothers vehicle features them as detectives hired to protect lawyer Walter Stevens ( Lionel Atwell ) from ' The Gorilla ' , a killer working under the guise of an escaped circus animal . Garrity , Harrigan , and Mullivan ( Jimmy , Harry , and Al Ritz ) discover that is really heiress Norma Denby ( Anita Louise ) who may be the target of the killer . To complicate things even further , a real escaped gorilla shows up to befuddle our trio of detectives , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Another in the long line of comedy in the haunted house capers , " The Gorilla " works well if you're familiar with the Ritz Brothers , and unfamiliar with the often filmed storyline . It will also help if you like movies featuring men in gorilla suits . Director Allan Dwan and photographer Edward Cronjager make it look all right . The cast is strengthened by a high-key performance from literary maid Patsy Kelly ( as Kitty ) , and a low-key play by butler Bela Lugosi ( as Peters ) ; their names , " Kitty " and " Peters " , are certainly amusing . The Gorilla ( 1939 ) Allan Dwan - Harry Ritz , Patsy Kelly , Bela Lugosi
Preying For You	In 1955 , seedy Brooklyn private investigator Mickey Rourke ( as Harry Angel ) is hired by spooky Robert De Niro ( as Louis Cyphre ) to find an old " big band " singer named " Johnny Favorite " . The trail of clues lead Mr . Rourke to seedy Louisiana , and he encounters sexy voodoo priestess Lisa Bonet ( as Epiphany Proudfoot ) . Dead bodies and hocus pocus reign . Rourke knocks boots with Ms . Bonet , as things get darker and bloodier ? Director Alan Parker , with great assist from cinematographer Michael Seresin , seemed to have something really good and stylish happening with " Angel Heart " - but , ruined it with an ending from hell . Angel Heart ( 1987 ) Alan Parker - Mickey Rourke , Lisa Bonet , Robert De Niro
Intolerance , Be Damned !	A story of Satan , who , according to the film , was originally God's " Angel of Light " . But , He wanted to be God-like . As punishment , God periodically orders Helge Nissen ( as Satan ) to " ' Continue thy evil doings ! ' " And , director Carl Theodor Dreyer traces the Evil One's deeds through the ages . The film concentrates on three historically set studies : the crucifixion of Christ , the Spanish Inquisition , and the French Revolution ; with the fourth , and last , leaf in Satan's book the ( then ) contemporary Russian invasion / occupation of Finland . Dreyer is clearly inspired by D . W . Griffith's infinitely superior , and highly recommended , " Intolerance " ( 1916 ) . Elith Pio ( as Joseph ) and Clara Pontoppidan ( as Siri ) give focal , heroic performances in the latter two stories . Blade af Satans bog ( 1921 ) Carl Theodor Dreyer - Helge Nissen , Clara Pontoppidan , Elith Pio
My Own Private Missouri	David Arquette ( as John ) is an aspiring actor . Lukas Haas ( as Donner ) is a gay youth tossed out of his home , by an intolerant father . Both wind up hustling , on Santa Monica Boulevard . Since Mr . Arquette arrived first , he has taught Mr . Haas the tricks of the trade , beginning with the most important dating question : " Are you a cop ? " This is a shorter version than the one posed by Arquette ; but , it's quick , effective , and easier for the trick to understand . Hass falls in love with Arquette , and wants to take him to " Camelot " , where the two would be lifeguards . But , Arquette is reluctant to go ; he wants to spend his Birthday in an expensive hotel room . Scott Silver's " Johns " has a very realistic set-up ; the unrequited love between the two young men , and their reasons for being where they are , certainly ring true . But , the film's premise becomes a tired , unrealistic cliché . If tricks were as bad as they are herein , the Boulevard would be deserted . The actors play their parts well ; they , and Mr . Silver , make you care about them as individuals , and wish for a happy culmination . The conclusion offered by Silver is as predictable as the sunset ; however , it is infinitely less satisfying ( and leaves a bad taste in your mouth ) . On the other hand , Silver has some good moves , and is able to assemble quite a good cast and crew , for a first directorial effort . Among the supporting players , Richard Kind's beautiful portrayal of an understanding hotel clerk is most outstanding . Even the other hotel customers seemed enchanted . There is a lot of Christian religiosity ? this is , arguably , a re-telling of the so-called " greatest story ever told " . Don't miss that Christ-like , barefoot Arquette's " John " is given a " crown of thorns " . And , also note that Haas ' deerly named " Donner " has a Judas-like moment . And , remember , Haas told Arquette he doesn't celebrate Christmas because , " I'm Jewish . " Great , Scott . What's the message ? Johns ( 1996 ) Scott Silver - David Arquette , Lukas Haas , Richard Kind
Clara Kimball Young has The Last Laugh	" A collection of travelers has gathered at the ' Red Rock Tavern ' , an old hotel , during a thunderstorm . All arriving for different reasons , the group is suddenly drawn together by the murder of one of the guests . Two store detectives staying at the hotel try to solve the case as other bodies turn up and the terror increases with each passing moment , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . An eclectic cast makes this " old dark house " variation fairly entertaining , albeit structurally flawed . The leading man and woman are " store detectives " Wallace Ford ( as Jimmy Kelly ) and Barbara Pepper ( as Marjorie Burns ) . But , the real treat is seeing former silent film superstar Clara Kimball Young ( as Mrs . Jamison ) , in one of her more meaty later year roles . The matronly Ms . Young was one of the biggest stars in films during 1913-1919 , and she still has her way with the camera . The Rogues Tavern ( 1936 ) Robert F . Hill - Wallace Ford , Barbara Pepper , Clara Kimball Young
Warner's Hollywoodland , 1944	Robert Hutton is a World War II soldier who dreams of meeting actress Joan Leslie . In Hollywoodland , dreams come true - so , in a trip to the " Hollywood Canteen " ( hosted by Bette Davis and John Garfield ) , Mr . Hutton meets Ms . Leslie . He kisses her . Later , he dates her ( as he is the one millionth soldier to visit the Canteen ) . Mr . Hutton's pal Dane Clark is around to take up some of the two hour running time . Many Warner Brothers studio stars appear . Some may not be as recognizable today as the were in 1944 . The main reason to watch " Hollywood Canteen " is for a dose of Hollywood-style music , circa 1944 - hits like " Don't Fence Me In " and " Sweet Dreams Sweetheart " . You also get to see the Los Angeles locale of the time . Hollywood Canteen ( 1944 ) Delmer Daves - Robert Hutton , Joan Leslie , Dane Clark
Otto Preminger in Wayne's World	When John Wayne goes to pick up Patricia Neal for a date ? and encounters his just discovered son ? who is appearing for a date with Neal's friend ? . well , you know you're watching a soap opera . It starts out a little like " Beach Party " - of-the-absurd , and moves to a reverse - " From Here to Eternity " , then muddles around . It ends with the " Big Battle . " There are some well-staged dramatic scenes ( Otto Preminger directed ) and some nice photography . It's nice to see Mr . Wayne with an age appropriate looking feminine interest in Ms . Neal , who lifts the film quite a bit with her presence . It's interesting to see Kirk Douglas ' and Mr . De Wilde's relative unsympathetic characterizations , which made me wonder about the filmmakers ' motives . Strange film , but admittedly star-studded , and worth a look . In Harm's Way ( 1965 ) Otto Preminger - John Wayne , Kirk Douglas , Patricia Neal
Why Do You Think They Call it " Dopokoke " ?	Good physician Charles Hill Mailes is always generous with only son Charles West ; but , the latter spends his father's money like it's going out of style . In order to keep his son's lifestyle luxurious , Mr . Hill Mailes invents Dopokoke " For His Son " . Dopokoke is a cocaine-laced soft drink . With the drug included , Dopokoke is a smashing success ! Robert Harron mans a busy Dopokoke fountain , where Mr . West and his friends enjoy quite a few pops . West's fiancée wards off the stuff , but secretary Dorothy Bernard succumbs . Soon , there are junkies among the cast ? This is a relatively highly entertaining early D . W . Griffith film , as it deals with the cocaine addiction . It was , likely , a topical film subject for Griffith ; in the past , the drug was legal ; and , it was once rumored to have been included among Coca-Cola's " secret ingredients . " Otherwise , the film is a morality play - - note that the father is aware of the danger in Dopokoke ; and , he uses the drug for selfish reasons , which come back to haunt him . Ms . Bernard gives the stand-out performance , as the father's secretary . For His Son ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Charles Hill Mailes , Charles West , Dorothy Bernard
Steele Away with Lara Parker	Remington ( Pierce Brosnan ) and Laura ( Stephanie Zimbalist ) go undercover to investigate intellectual theft , in the world of high fashion design . Not surprisingly , the investigation involves murder . Although the delightful Doris Roberts does not appear in this episode , the great guest cast helps fill the void . Joshua Shelley ( as Bulletz Bloustein ) and Dean Santoro ( as Julian Baron ) are the well-cast bickering brothers of fashion . Carl Weintraub ( as Karl ) is an appropriately nasty foil . Remington and Laura have a couple of their finer moments ; Bronson is especially noteworthy , giving sweat-panted Zimbalist a foot massage , and expressing great emotion when he thinks his partner has expired . And , best of all is beautiful featured Lara Parker ( as Lila Colbert ) . Ms . Parker has one of her major guest-starring roles ; once again , she shows enough performance ability to have been starred in her own television series . Remington Steele - Steele Threads ( / 83 ) Karen Arthur - Pierce Brosnan , Lara Parker , Stephanie Zimbalist
Another Operator Guards Her Trust	Dorothy Bernard ( as Grace ) is a railroad telegraph operator , admired by all , especially by men . Though men like W . C . Robinson try to tickle her fancy , she prefers Wilfred Lucas ( as Jack ) . After the two flirt , Ms . Bernard receives word that a $2 , 000 payroll will be arriving by train , and placed in her trust . This attracts some bad elements ; specifically , tramps Edwin August and Alfred Paget ; they are plotting steal the $2 , 000 . . . Director D . W . Griffith's " cross-cutting " makes " A Girl and Her Trust " an exciting early silent , improving on the his earlier " The Lonely Villa " ( 1909 ) ; however , the story situation is not nearly as good as the forthcoming " An Unseen Enemy " ( 1912 ) , with the Gish sisters , which also improves on " The Lonedale Operator " , which this film is practically a re-make of . . . Bernard performs very well as the heroine ; Mr . Lucas steals both her heart , and co-acting honors . Griffith's cast of " extras " is always extraordinary . Though memorable , the way Bernard uses : a bullet , a keyhole , and scissors as a gun may have you shaking your head .
Here We Go Again , Boys !	With his gang's clubhouse closed for repairs , Bobby Jordan ( as Danny Dolan ) moves " The East Side Kids " back to a ( horse ) stable hangout . There , young Mr . Jordan , hard-boiled Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs Maloney ) , Ernest " Sunshine Sammy " Morrison ( as Scruno ) , David Gorcey ( as Peewee ) , and Donald Haines ( as Skinny ) meet ageing horseman Clarence Muse ( as Ben ) . Jordan and Mr . Muse help Mr . Gorcey realize his dream - to become a professional jockey . For " That Gang of Mine " , Jordan is incredibly appealing , Gorcey is a natural jockey wannabe , and Muse contributes an engaging " guest " performance . Director Joseph H . Lewis makes the most of ordinary production values . That Gang of Mine ( / 40 ) Joseph H . Lewis - Bobby Jordan , Leo Gorcey , Clarence Muse
Vincent Price Murders His Wife	" A psychiatrist argues with his wife and , in a fit of rage , kills her . The psychiatrist discovers that the crime was observed by his neighbor and fears she will report him to the authorities . After the woman is unsuccessful in convincing her husband of what she saw , the psychiatrist approaches him and says she needs psychiatric treatment , and she should be placed under his care , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . He never really cuts loose , in this early starring appearance , but Vincent Price ( as Richard Cross ) is certainly one of the film's main assets . Lovely Lynn Bari ( as Elaine Jordan ) is the woman he tries to to please , by killing . And , Frank Latimore ( as Paul Stewart ) and Anabel Shaw ( as Janet Stewart ) do well in their roles as the handsome soldier and his possibly touched wife . Shock ( 1946 ) Alfred L . Werker - Vincent Price , Lynn Bari , Frank Latimore
William Boyd Loves a White Russian	William Boyd ( as Feodor ) is a Volga river boatman " whose broad breast and ringing voice never tired because he dreamed a dream of freedom . " Elinor Fair ( as Princess Vera ) is " in that delightful feminine state of intending to say ' yes ' but acting ' no ' " to Victor Varconi ( as Prince Dimitri Orloff ) , " an Officer of the Czar's Guard " who is " just a man waiting for a woman's ' yes ' or ' no ' . " Ms . Fair and Mr . Varconi become engaged , but the Princess falls in love with the un-Princely Mr . Boyd . Their entanglements are played out against the Russian Revolution . Nice looking film by Cecil B . DeMille , J . Peverell Marley , and others . The performances begin well ; especially future " Hopalong Cassidy " star Boyd - in his scene meeting Fair and Varconi , Boyd intensely shows anger , lust , and disgust . Unfortunately , the film peaks there . If you make it through the running time , you should watch for the scene when Boyd gives Fair five minutes say her prayers , before he means to kill her - she rips her dress a little to mark her upper chest with an " X " for his targeting convenience ! There are some additional titillating strip scenes ( which don't titillate , by the way ) . " The Volga Boatman " is as slow moving and predictable as its protagonist . Theodore Kosloff , Julia Faye , and Robert Edeson try to liven things up among the Red Russians . White Russian Varconi makes a wise decision at the end . Off-screen , Boyd and Fair would marry ; surprisingly , there is noting very extraordinary about their on-screen romance - they look better with Faye and Varconi . . . The Volga Boatman ( 1926 ) Cecil B . DeMille - William Boyd , Elinor Fair , Victor Varconi
Don't Let the Bed Bugs Bite Eric !	Mickey Rourke ( he's Charlie ) and Eric Roberts ( he's Paulie ) play a pair of poor Italian restaurant workers fired when the latter is caught stealing . Daryl Hanna is around to attract the lecherous glances . Geraldine Page and Kenneth McMillan are around to attract the awards conscious . Most obvious is the performance of Mr . Roberts - possibly , the movie fails because he puts more into his character than he puts into the key relationship with Mr . Rourke's character ; for whatever reasons , Roberts steals the all the attention . Even when Rourke hysterically trashes his home , it's because of Roberts more than anything ( in your mind's eye ) . Roberts adds some interesting bits to his character - the hair , the accent , the thing he does with his tongue . . . he is quite memorable . But , the film's main character , if you had to pick one , is supposed to be Rourke . That character doesn't work , either . The Italian gang led by the " Bed Bug " makes it a " dangerous crime comedy " when it isn't a " serious buddy film " . There is a story - a Roberts scheme to rob a safe peaks about mid-film ; it is well done , and involves Ms . Page's winning performance of a cop's mother . Though exciting , you'll find little blood ( even in a gruesome scene ) . An interesting , albeit failed , character study from director Stuart Rosenberg . The Pope of Greenwich Village ( 1984 ) Stuart Rosenberg - Mickey Rourke , Eric Roberts , Geraldine Page
Big Moo	This one compares relatively well with the other old " Little Women " and " Little Men " movies . It boasts an evenly keeled performance from Jimmy Lydon ( as Danny ) , who handles the material particularly well . Other Louisa May Alcott adaptations err by casting older , and far too cutely made-up , stars as Alcott's young characters . Possibly , due to his relative youth , Mr . Lydon gets less than " star billing " . Higher-billed veterans Kay Francis ( as Jo March ) and George Bancroft ( as Major Burdle ) provide strong adult support . Ms . Francis ' portrayal of an older " Jo " rings true . However , Jack Oakie ( as Willie the Fox ) has the most enjoyable role . In black-and-white , Nick Musuraca photographs Darrell Silvera's sets quite nicely . Still , the total effect sometimes too cute for comfort . Little Men ( 1940 ) Norman Z . McLeod - Jimmy Lydon , Kay Francis , Jack Oakie
A Chip Off the Old Block	In London , pretty dancer Anna May Wong ( as Ling Moy ) discovers she is the daughter of wicked Chinese warlord Warner Oland ( as Fu Manchu ) . Naturally , Ms . Wong is compelled to continue her father's murderous ways ; mainly , she wants to torture and kill members of the British Petrie family ( as in previous Fu films ) . Meanwhile , good detective Sessue Hayakawa ( as Ah Kee ) has tracked the Gang of Fu to London . The triumph of good over evil hits the expected snag when Mr . Hayakawa becomes attracted to his prey . Will the hunter get captured by the game ? Lloyd Corrigan's " Daughter of the Dragon " is far from the best " Fu " . It is the last appearance of Mr . Oland as the famous villain ; and , he is most effective , in his abbreviated appearance . The idea to cast Wong and Hayakawa was a good one ; however , their portrayals are clownish . Hayakawa , an otherwise fine actor , is obviously working on articulation . Victor Milner's photography is the film's main strength . Harold Minjir's comic relief role , as the nearsighted " Rogers " , is also quite good . The story moves along briskly enough to overcome some absurdities . Daughter of the Dragon ( 1931 ) Lloyd Corrigan - Anna May Wong , Sessue Hayakawa , Warner Oland
Taking a Powder	Rudolph Valentino ( as Philippe , aka the " Duke de Chartres " ) is a member of France's 18th century powder set ; he and royal cousin Bebe Daniels ( as Princess Henriette ) are quite a pair , but etiquette gets in the way . So , Mr . Valentino leaves the court of Lowell Sherman ( as King Louis XV ) and Lois Wilson ( as Queen Marie ) ; and , he relocates to Bath , England . There , he assumes the identity of ordinary barber " Monsieur Beaucaire " . Valentino enjoys life as a commoner ; nonetheless , he quickly assumes the role of a French nobleman , in order to romance Doris Kenyon ( as Lady Mary ) . Eventually , he realizes there's no place like home ? After a two year strike , Rudolph Valentino made " Monsieur Beaucaire " his comeback film . It's an elaborate , confusing , and mannered production . Nevertheless , in Valentino's case , absence did make the hearts of America grow fonder ; and , Valentino spent the next two years as the USA's top male Box Office Star . Probably , the position was enhanced due to the continued circulation of the star's previous hits . " Monsieur Beaucaire " is a valiant failure . Staid , light and shadow direction by Sidney Olcott , daintily made-up and costumed players , and elaborately designed scenes are featured . The story of a royal assuming the commoner's role is interesting ; but , despite the title , Valentino is only briefly seen in the entertaining role of barber . Possibly , the film's focus was lost during the making . One of Valentino's 1923 song recordings was added to the soundtrack ; listen for it when the star sings a serenade , near the film's beginning . A record wasn't released until later , but the song is chronologically correct , herein ; thematically , the Valentino recordings more closely fit other films , however . This recording , and Valentino's successful American tour , suggested a Garbo-like success in talking films was possible , had Valentino lived into the sound era . Monsieur Beaucaire ( 1924 ) Sidney Olcott - Rudolph Valentino , Bebe Daniels , Lois Wilson
Joseph M . Schenck presents Norma Talmadge in a Beautiful Production	East meets west when Chinese made-up Norma Talmadge ( as San San ) falls in love with visiting United States consulate Thomas Meighan ( as John Worden ) . Mr . Meighan is the answer to her prayer , " Oh , Buddha , please send love-man here to give me million sweet kisses . " Their " forbidden " union produces an interracially grown-up Ms . Talmadge ( as Toy ) , who falls in love with another American , Reed Hamilton ( as Philip Halbert ) . But , Talmadge's dark past threatens their relationship , as Mr . Hamilton's surprisingly prejudiced guardian refuses to bless the union . Despite featuring two of the biggest stars of the silent era , Talmadge and Meighan , and a very capable director , Sidney Franklin , " The Forbidden City " fails to make too much of an impression . The locales and sets are nice , especially during the early scenes . The moon is an appropriate eternal image . Talmadge's prayer to Buddha , and declaration " I American - I no need ancestors ! " make the film more amusing than dramatic . The Forbidden City ( / 18 ) Sidney Franklin - Norma Talmadge , Thomas Meighan , Reed Hamilton
Close , but No Whistle	A miscast " Little Women " , with a lot of expensive sets and photography ; colorful and overproduced . Margaret O'Brien is the best of the bunch ; she can actually play a " Little Woman " believably . " Christopher Columbus ! " but , June Allyson looks and sounds ghastly in this role ; the " older woman cast as young girl " thing worked much better in silents , with fuzzy B & W photography . Peter Lawford's tutor looks as young as his character . And , my grandmother said , " If I ever came to the breakfast table with the make-up Elizabeth Taylor has on , I'd have gotten a licking ! " They age into their roles with varying success , if you keep watching . In my opinion , this movie will appeal mostly to followers of lavish period productions , or fans of a specific individual / filmmaker . I don't see how 1949's " Little Women " could be better than either the original book or another filmed version . And , why wasn't there room in the budget to dub in a decent " whistle " for Ms . Allyson ? Little Women ( 1949 ) Mervyn LeRoy - June Allyson , Margaret O'Brien , Elizabeth Taylor
Piloting with Roger Davis and Dack Rambo	Handsome beach drifters Roger Davis ( as Marcus McAllister ) and Dack Rambo ( as Riley Briggs ) take their boat down the coast of Mexico , to look for pretty women and sunken treasure . While Mr . Davis spies on a nearby yacht party , Mr . Rambo goes scuba diving . Rambo surfaces without treasure , and the two watch jet-setters arrive at the party via helicopter . The men are shocked when a beautiful woman drops from the helicopter and disappears into the ocean . While Rambo goes underwater to look for her , Davis is nearly killed by a ship helmed by sinister Ray Milland ( as Evelyn Rose ) . Soon , Mr . Milland fishes both men out of the water . Milland is somehow connected to the lost lady , and wants Davis and Rambo to stop searching . The duo manage to escape Milland's clutches with a clue - the missing woman's compact . This leads them to widow Suzanne Pleshette ( as Anna ) , who was married to the lover of the missing woman . Davis falls in love with Pleshette , which irks Milland crew member Jorge Luke ( as Tomas ) . And , Rambo becomes obsessed with finding the woman they saw disappear into the ocean ? Rambo and Davis keep it going , but this high-rated " ABC Movie of the Week " doesn't end up being very compelling . Although they are higher billed , Milland and Pleshette are supporting players . Milland had just had a late career peak in " Love Story " and Pleshette would soon hook up with Bob Newhart . Rambo was coming off " The Guns of Will Sonnett " and Davis was in between " Dark Shadows " and " Alias Smith and Jones " . All very likable performers . Watch for Rambo to call Pedro Armendáriz Jr . ( as Angel ) by his real name , and be corrected - the two actors handle the name confusion smoothly . River of Gold ( / 71 ) David Friedkin - Dack Rambo , Roger Davis , Ray Milland
Be It Ever So Humble	D . W . Griffith's allegorical study of John Howard Payne , who composed the heart-tugging standard " Home , Sweet Home " . The director presents the drama in four parts : In " Part I . ( Prologue ) " , Henry B . Walthall ( as Payne ) leaves home to make his fortune in the big city , leaving Lillian Gish to pine away at home , with his mother . Mr . Walthall succumbs to a decadent lifestyle ( he becomes an actor ! ) ; and , he never returns home to find true happiness with Ms . Gish . Unfortunately , there is no East Hampton location footage featuring " Payne House " ; which would have been lovely to see , as I am a resident . Walthall and Gish are typically up for the task , in this pivotal episode . Josephine Crowell and Fay Tincher offer support ( from opposite sides of the fence ) . In " Part II . ( First Episode ) " , Robert Harron ( as Robert " Bob " Winthrop ) has better luck as " a fortune seeking youth from the east " who falls for country girl Mae Marsh ( as " Apple Pie " Mary ) . Though tempted to return to his Eastern lifestyle , Harron finally comes to his senses , after hearing " Home , Sweet Home " . This is the best " Episode " of the film , with Harron and Ms . Marsh proving a very pleasant pair . Marsh is especially memorable ; with a cute , lighter characterization than her illustrious co-actresses . Spottiswoode Aiken and Walter Long ( as Alkali Pete ) lend their support . In " Part III . ( Second Episode ) " , Jack Pickford gives mother Mary Alden a will to live after hateful brothers Donald Crisp and James Kirkwood shoot each other to death . Structurally and thematically , this is the weakest link in the overall story . Unlike the other episodes , there is a good deal of outdoor location footage ; highlighted by seacoast scenes , and Pickford's " The brothers are fighting , the brothers are fighting ! " warning ride . Fred Burns lends support , as the sheriff Pickford idolizes . This may have been intended as an individual film , praising good dullness over wicked excitement . In " Part IV . ( Third Episode ) : ' The Marriage of Roses and Lilies ' " , Blanche Sweet is tempted to carnally engage suave Owen Moore , but returns to the arms of sleepy Courtenay Foote , after hearing " Home , Sweet Home . " Here , the drama returns more solidly to the power of the song to change one's direction , in the face of temptation . Happily reversing the earlier episodes , the woman is the character tempted ; although , Ms . Sweet's looks more like innocent flirtation . Edward Dillon lends stalwart support . In " Epilogue " , Walthall is in Hell , or being pulled there by his lustful life . Gish , now an angel in Heaven , flies around , searching for her earthly beloved . Finally , in Gish's loving arms , Walthall ascends . Overall , " Home , Sweet Home " suggests Payne received salvation , in the afterlife , through the everlasting power of his song . Griffith's patchwork storytelling would significantly improve , in a couple of years ? Home , Sweet Home ( / 14 ) D . W . Griffith - Henry B . Walthall , Lillian Gish , Mae Marsh
It Takes a Milkman	Fish-loving college graduate Allan Lane ( as Bill Norman ) agrees to become a lowly milkman for 30 days , so his millionaire father will believe him worthy of a proposed six-month tropical expedition , aboard the family yacht . So , Mr . Lane begins enthusiastically delivering " Arlen Milk " . On his route , he meets pretty débutante Joan Fontaine ( as Sheila Harrison ) , whom he mistakes for her family's maid . Ms . Fontaine's family has fallen on hard times ; and , they want her to marry wealthy stuffed-shirt William Brisbane ( as Wally Martin ) . But , Fontaine would rather hook up with Lane the " milkman " ; and , he has fallen in love with Fontaine the " maid " . Lane , the future voice of " Mr . Ed " , and Fontaine make a charming pair of 1930s " screwball comedy " " milkmen " . There are a few cute moments , and the film's supporting cast is strong . Cecil Kellaway ( as Geoffrey ) and Hilda Vaughn ( as Mary ) are , of course , excellent , as the actual pair's servants . Mr . Brisbane has a great part ; and , he gets to sing . The story is mostly fair , with a few good moments . Fontaine's milk truck attack on the runaway couple's pursuers shouldn't be missed . The ending " double take " of kisses ends the film on a sweet note . Maid's Night Out ( 1938 ) Ben Holmes - Allan Lane , Joan Fontaine , William Brisbane
Knavery's Plain Face Is Never Seen	" ' O ' is Odin James ( Mekhi Phifer ) , the school's star basketball player and future NBA hopeful . He has the adoration of all , including the team's coach ( Martin Sheen ) and Dean's beautiful daughter , Desi ( Julia Stiles ) . Odin's troubled friend Hugo ( Josh Hartnett ) , the coach's son is deeply resentful of his father's preference of Odin on and off the court . When Hugo plots a diabolical scheme to sow the seeds of mistrust between ' O ' and Desi , it sets in motion a disturbing chain of events which erupts into a firestorm of breathtaking intensity . ' O ' is a stunning tale that will stay with you long after its final , powerful frame , " according to the promotional synopsis . And , like it promises : " O " features , " Hot young stars , a hip , driving soundtrack , plus a provocative tale of jealousy and betrayal combine to create this controversial modern-day version of Shakespeare's classic , ' Othello . ' " The Shakespearian plot is still good , after all these centuries . But , the transference of these events to a " high school " setting doesn't work . As a whole , the actors do not look or act between 14-18 years old ; at one point , Mr . James says they're eighteen ( a wise age to pick , from range available ) . Granted , with retention and steroids , many athletes look much older , presently - still , " O " doesn't balance this with age appropriate casting ( or behavior ) . Making the age matter worse is a script which really doesn't really ring true . This story , with its controversy likely related to violent real-life teenage mass murderers , doesn't possess the degree of teen angst and alienation necessary to bring that slant to the tale . And , it doesn't fit the " Othello " plot . The cast and direction are very good , though ? why didn't somebody suggest a college setting ? O ( / 01 ) Tim Blake Nelson - Mekhi Phifer , Josh Hartnett , Julia Stiles
Cat Scratch Fever	This film begins with a helpful definition of Stephen King's " Sleepwalkers " : " Nomadic shape-shifting creatures with human and feline origins . Vulnerable to the deadly scratch of the cat , the sleepwalker feeds upon the life-force of virginal human females ? " Then , in Bodega Bay , California ( an obvious reference to Alfred Hitchcock's " The Birds " ) , officer Mark Hamill ( in a cameo appearance ) discovers a home populated by hanging dead cats . From there , director Mick Garris moves the action to Travis , Indiana . . . We are introduced to shirtless hunk Brian Krause ( as Charles Brady ) and his still hot mother Alice Krige ( as Mary Brady ) . They are obviously a nostalgic duo , evidenced by their slow dancing to Santo & Johnny's 1959 hit " Sleep Walk " . A likely choice . Anyway , the son and mother are also lovers . But , Mr . Krause needs to suck the life force out of a virgin female to satisfy Ms . Krige , who is " famished " . Krause is too old for high school , but he attends anyway ; and , after rebuffing his gay teacher , he decides to hook up with implausible virgin Mädchen Amick ( as Tanya Robertson ) . Horror novelist King and some others appear in small roles . Together , Ms . Amick and Krause look a little like older versions of Brook Shields and Christopher Atkins . Hmmm . In Bodega Bay , with " The Birds " and the cats . It all must mean something , but what ? Sleepwalkers ( 1992 ) Mick Garris - Brian Krause , Mädchen Amick , Alice Krige
It's a Fair Film ( with Great Cameos )	Dennis Morgan and Jack Carson play " themselves " and Doris Day is a Warner Brothers worker who wants to be a star . Mr . Morgan and Mr . Carson are hardly convincing as " big stars " ; I don't think many would know of them and I had to look them up on IMDb . Ms . Day is trying too hard in this movie , losing the naturalness which charmed her " Romance on the High Seas " debut . This film's salvation is the slew of " cameo " appearances - - Joan Crawford and Edward G . Robinson are very good . The cameos steal ALL of the thunder from the three leads , however ; this should not happen in a successful film . Not to fault Morgan , Carson , and Day - - their material is just so mediocre . It's a Great Feeling ( 1949 ) David Butler - Dennis Morgan , Jack Carson , Doris Day
Giving it Up for James Cagney	James Cagney ( as Danny ) is a New York City truck driver who takes up boxing in order to finance his brother Arthur Kennedy ( as Eddie ) ' s musical career . Ann Sheridan ( as Peggy ) is Danny's childhood girlfriend - she gives up their romance for a dancing career , and ends up weeping profusely for it . The film begins as the " City for Conquest " characters are children , living in New York city's lower East Side . Each child mirrors his / her adult development ; for example , " Danny " fights , " Peggy " dances , and " Eddie " squeezes his music box . These opening scenes are well-done , and effectively introduce the characters . However , the switch from children to adult actors fails because the " Danny " boy is so unlike actor James Cagney - it's very startling when Cagney appears . The other children are very well-cast ; the boy playing Elia Kazan's " Googi " character looks especially like the adult " Googi " . The boy playing Mr . Cagney looks so different , you have to wonder if another actor might have been planned to star in this film . Additionally , the children are depicted as being about the same age , but the adult Cagney appears much older when they are adults ; he goes from being about Ms . Sheridan's age to looking like her father ! He looks too out-of-shape for the role , also , of the " Young Samson " . Frank Craven appears as " Old Timer " ; he seems to have great knowledge , but his role is confusing . Anthony Quinn is Ms . Sheridan's greasy dancing partner ( and abductor ? ) Murray Burns . For some reason , Mr . Quinn spent WAY TOO LONG in the make-up chair - his eye make-up is the film's heaviest ! Yet , the cast is worth watching . James Cagney is , after all , still Cagney . Mr . Kennedy and Mr . Kazan perform their parts very well . The structurally flawed story does move - and , Sheridan's profuse weeping could squeeze one out of you . City for Conquest ( 1940 ) Anatole Litvak - James Cagney , Ann Sheridan , Arthur Kennedy
A Sweet and Harrowing Story of the Early West	The story begins by introducing two married couples - - prospector Charles Gorman ( as Jack Hardy ) and his " Homesick for the East " wife Blanche Sweet ( as Alice ) ; and , Mexicans Charles Hill Mailes ( as Jim ) and wife Claire McDowell . The husbands meet at a saloon , where the Mr . Gorman makes a laughing stock out of the " good-for-nothing " Hill Mailes , then throws him out of the bar . Next , Hill Mailes joins a couple of cutthroats , and shoots " Indian " Robert Harron's father , just to watch him die . So , two of the film's characters seek revenge - - Hill Mailes wants to get even with Gorman for throwing him around ; and , Indian son Harron wants vengeance for his murdered father . Hill Mailes kidnaps his enemy's wife , Ms . Sweet ; and , despite advice from his Chief to keep the peace , Harron rounds up some Young Braves to go after Hill Mailes . Subtitled " A Story of the Early West " , " A Temporary Truce " compares very favorably with some of Director D . W . Griffith's more well-known " little epics " from the period . The southern California location sequences are exciting ; Griffith and cameraman G . W . Bitzer are , obviously , in the process of kicking up film-making a notch ( or two ) every year . Sweet gives a particularly fine performance as the kidnapped wife , and the other performers are , at least , interesting . Harron is noteworthy as the wronged Indian boy ; he steals the film , and tilts the story toward the unexpected side of the traditional " Cowboys and Indians " western . Extras include Mary's little brother , Jack Pickford , who joins Harron's Indian gang ; and , Mae Marsh is easy to spot as an murdered settler . It's strange to watch Ms . Marsh get attacked by Harron , so notable a future film partner !
Pacific Northwest Indian Wipe Out	Spencer Tracy ( as Major Rogers ) gets Robert Young ( as Langdon ) and Walter Brennan ( as Hunk ) drunk , so they'll become members of his Colonial American Rangers , and head for the " Northwest Passage " of the title . Along the way , they kill many Indians ( aka Native Americans ) . The photography is the film's main attraction . This must have seemed like a grand classic when released in 1940 ; however , the epic quality has been equaled many times , and this film doesn't have enough other qualities to maintain classic status . Mr . Young's painting and Mr . Brennan's teeth are not characterization traits to last through the ages . Mr . Tracy performs well , as usual ; however , his Rangers look a little old , as a whole , to be making this journey . The most exciting scenes are when the Rangers burn an Indian village , and wipe out its inhabitants . Watch for it in the middle of the film , not the end . Be warned , though - it's a visceral slaughter . Addison Richards ( as Ranger Crofton ) is particularly sadistic ; later , he gets his turn . . . Northwest Passage ( 1940 ) King Vidor - Spencer Tracy , Robert Young , Walter Brennan
Bilking the Public	" They're back . And then some . Twelve is the new Eleven when Danny Ocean and pals return in a sequel to the cool caper that saw them pull off a $160 million heist . But $160 million doesn't go as far as it used to . Not with everyone spending like sailors on leave . Not with Vegas big-shot Terry Benedict out to recover his dough . And , not with a mysterious someone stalking Danny and crew . It's time to pull off another stunner of a plan - or plans ? " according to the sleeve's synopsis . The first problem with " Ocean's Twelve " is that the main plot involves the original team's effort to RETURN the money from the first film , or DIE . " Ocean's Eleven " involved viewers is rooting for the superstar team to GET the money ; and , none of them were killed . This film stabs the earlier one in the back . Perhaps , George Clooney ( as Ocean ) and his all-star team weren't so smart , after all . Probably , they should they have killed Andy Garcia's " Benedict " . NOW , they have to steal more money , to pay their " debt " . That's no fun . The " In Jokes " are smarmy . On the plus side , the locations and music ( David Holmes ) are exemplary . The " laser field dance " in the great hall moves along stylishly . Attractive Catherine Zeta-Jones and Vincent Cassel are strong shove-ins to the cast - but , really , Steven Soderbergh should have considered the " Ocean's Ten " , " Ocean's Nine " , " Ocean's Eight " , " Ocean's Seven " ? progression , ending with a George Clooney monologue on aging gracefully . Ocean's Twelve ( 2001 ) Steven Soderbergh - George Clooney , Brad Pitt , Matt Damon
A Magic Show Murder Mystery	Holmes Herbert ( as Peter Dwight ) is a magician , and quick-change master-of-disguise ; he has assumed the role of Count Merlin , a " Master of Occult Services " . Margaret Livingston ( as Florence Dwight Talbot ) is his ex-wife , who , fifteen years earlier , took their baby daughter and hooked up second husband Rockliffe Fellowes ( as Richard " Dick " Talbot ) . Ms . Livingston isn't one to stand by her men , and has already decided to run away with her doctor , Philo McCullough ( as Walter Paynter ) . She goes to Mr . Herbert for a crystal ball reading , unaware he is her ex-husband ? You should know , initially , that the " crystal ball story " , early in the film , is the story of how Livingston took her daughter and left Herbert for Fellowes . It really isn't at all clear ( as either a bell , or a crystal ball ) . It's also astonishing how Livingston sits right down with Herbert for a dead-on perfect " reading " of their past , and doesn't know who he is , under the turban . She later says , " What a fool I was not to have recognized you ! " Indeed . Later , events are easier to understand . Circumstances lead to all the characters being in a house , during a storm . A murder is committed , and you're left wondering - who's the guilty party ? While there is some suspense , there are no real clues ( that I could see ) ; so you'll have to take a shot in the dark on this one . Herbert's is the film's main performance attraction ; he certainly is a master of disguise ! The Charlatan ( 1929 ) George Melford - Holmes Herbert , Margaret Livingston , Philo McCullough
Turn of the Page	After encountering rampaging Apache Indians , John Wayne ( as Hondo Lane ) and his dog lick their wounds at Geraldine Page ( as Angie Lowe ) ' s ranch . The plain Ms . Page is waiting for her husband to return ; however , she and manly Mr . Wayne are attracted to each other . Wayne teaches Page's boy Lee Aaker ( as Johnny ) how to swim . Page thinks Apache Michael Pate ( as Vittorio ) and his Indians are nice , but Wayne considers them savages . No points for guessing who is right . Colorful western action , with some " in-your-face " moments , since " Hondo " was originally filmed for 3-D . The film winds up being far too glossy for its own good , however . The supporting cast is notably fun . Page has her first featured film role ; it's nowhere near her best work , but she received Academy Award consideration . Watch for the scene where Wayne tells her , " I'm part Indian and I can smell you when I'm downwind of you , " with Page seeming more comely than " homely " . Ward Bond , a grizzly Wayne film regular , is seem in relative good light . Mr . Pate and James Arness shine , in their Apache war paint ; Pate reprised his Apache role for the television series . And , Mr . Aaker and Tom Irish get to learn lessons in western drama .
Barbara Steele Away	" In the 18th Century , a terrible witch is punished by the townspeople she terrorized by being drowned in a lake . Two hundred years later , a newlywed couple is driving near the lake when their car crashes into the water . The husband comes to the surface unharmed but his young bride emerges from the water possessed by the spirit of the witch , looking for revenge upon the descendants of the townspeople who had killed her , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Writer / director Michael Reeves's " The Sister of Satan " is an exasperating feature . After showing great promise with " Witchfinder General " ( 1968 ) , Mr . Reeves died of a drug overdose . Although this film ( aka " The She Beast " ) should not be considered representative , the opening and a few other scenes are nicely done . The idea to bring the story into the " Dracula universe " was a good one - but , the comic aspects do not fit . Worst of all , the sizzling pairing of Ian Ogilvy ( as Philip ) and Barbara Steele ( as Veronica ) is given short shrift . The Sister of Satan ( 1966 ) Michael Reeves - Ian Ogilvy , Barbara Steele , John Karlsen
Hughes Kind of Woman	Gangsters hang in the nicest looking places . " His Kind of Woman " never , for me , becomes what it looks like it should be . It's just too long and complicated . I couldn't focus on any one plot or character . I found Vincent Price , Jane Russell , and the settings very enjoyable . I wish I could say they were distracting from a potentially great story - but , there is no great , cohesive story to match these surroundings . I don't think I have seen Mr . Mitchum drop a cigarette down the from of another thug's pants before - the guy seems to get over it quickly , so I guess it was a mild burn ! Mr . Price asks Mr . Mitchum , at one point , " How come you don't drink ? " Huh ? His Kind of Woman ( 1951 ) John Farrow - Robert Mitchum , Jane Russell , Vincent Price
Snatch the Pebble From My Hand	Chinese-American Kung Fu practitioner David Carradine ( as Kwai Chang Caine ) continues his wanderings in the American West , from the very successfully piloted TV-movie shown earlier in the year . For the most part , the series features a relatively high level of excellence in photography and performance ( with the obligatory martial arts scenes ) . It's surprising to read some controversy concerning Carradine's being cast in the lead role ; his convincing portrayal is , in hindsight , the driving force behind the series ' enduring worth . In episode one , Caine finds stability and happiness in a pseudo-family , after bringing orphaned Brandon Cruz ( as Peter Gideon ) to live on widow Lara Parker ( as Amy Allender ) ' s ranch . This is the " Shane " plot , with race replacing the original's natural father ( interestingly , Carradine starred in the 1966 TV version of " Shane " ) . Producers were wise to cast Mr . Cruz ( from " The Courtship of Eddie's Father " ) and Ms . Parker ( from " Dark Shadows " ) in the guest-starring roles ; certainly , they lured in additional viewers . Parker is especially effective ( and quite remarkably unlike her famous " Angelique " character ) ; she and Carradine convey an attraction that should have been the episode's primary focus . John Saxon ( as Raven ) is an effective home-wrecker . And , Mark Allen , another " Dark Shadows " alumni , appears very briefly , as a post office clerk who gives Cruz directions . A good start for " Kung Fu " . Kung Fu - King of the Mountain ( / 72 ) Jerry Thorpe - David Carradine , Brandon Cruz , Lara Parker
An Eyeful of Ashley	Good-looking Ewan McGregor ( as Stephen " The Eye " Wilson ) is a secret agent man assigned to stalk wigged-out Ashley Judd ( as Joanna Eris ) . Merrily posing through several stages of undress , Ms . Judd is a sexy serial killer . Mr . McGregor keeps his clothes on , but matches his prey in the emotionally disturbed department , as it turns out . Stephan Elliott's " Eye of the Beholder " is long on style , and short on substance ; unfortunately , its meandering story is difficult to follow . Still , whatever director Elliott , McGregor , and Judd are doing , they often make it look good . Cinematographer Guy Dufaux excels . The film is reminiscent of director Alfred Hitchcock , especially his " Rear Window " and " Vertigo " . The supporting cast includes Patrick Bergin , veteran Geneviève Bujold , and a non-singing k . d . lang . But , Jason Priestley ( as Gary ) gets the best part , and turns it into the film's strongest individual performance . Mr . Priestley is startlingly convincing as a bleached blond junkie on the make . Priestley is better with Judd and McGregor than they are with each other ; and , his characterization is the film's best representation of its obvious amoral intentions . Eye of the Beholder ( 1999 ) Stephan Elliott - Ewan McGregor , Ashley Judd , Jason Priestly
Bela Lugosi's Bat Attack	" All Heathville loved Paul Carruthers , their kindly village doctor , " according to the film's foreword , " No one suspected that , in his home laboratory on a hillside overlooking the magnificent estate of Martin Heath , the doctor found time to conduct certain private experiments - weird , terrifying experiments . " Bela Lugosi ( as Carruthers ) creates , in his laboratory , " The Devil Bat " to attack and kill the families of the men who he feels profited from his discoveries . After trying some of Mr . Lugosi's experimental new fragrance ( " Rub it on the tender part of your neck , " he suggests ) , the fatal Bat attacks begin . The deaths attract the attention of investigative reporter Dave O'Brien ( as Johnny Layton ) . As Mr . O'Brien moves closer to discovering Lugosi's dark secret , he places his own life in danger . And , he finds himself becoming attracted to beautiful Suzanne Kaaren ( as Mary Heath ) , a Bat target . . . Pleasantly surprising low-budget fun , from Lugosi and a likable cast . The Devil Bat ( / 40 ) Jean Yarborough - Bela Lugosi , Dave O'Brien , Suzanne Kaaren
The Best Movie Ever Made Starring John Beal and Joan Fontaine	Young New York City surgeon , and amateur pilot , John Beal ( as James Stanton ) rubs the older doctors at " General Hospital " the wrong way . Most of all , they consider his interest in flying an inappropriate hobby . After Mr . Beal gives the wife of another doctor a lift in his plane , it crashes ; and , the young woman dies . The accident becomes a national scandal , with the unwed Beal becoming romantically linked with his married passenger . After being put on probation , Beal gives up his privileged life , hitchhikes to California , and becomes a hobo . He is recognized by pilot friend Philip Huston ( as Dick Miller ) , who helps Beal get back up on his feet . Then , Mr . Huston , and pretty blonde nurse Joan Fontaine ( as Doris King ) help Beal turn his life around . Ms . Fontaine receives a special introduction in this , her first co-starring role . She is not only very obviously like her famous sister , but also very engaging . Fontaine's performances would grow more individual and adept , with increasingly better material . Although never growing into stars of Fontaine's stature , Beal and Huston are also quite good . It's nice to see the expressive Beal , who presided over the witchcraft trial of Quentin Collins on " Dark Shadows " , as a leading man . And , Huston essays a very convincing " drunk " scene . The Man Who Found Himself ( 1937 ) Lew Landers - John Beal , Joan Fontaine , Philip Huston
Robert Goldstein's Lost Spirit	During the American Revolution , part-Native American Indian royalist Adda Gleason ( as Catherine Montour ) conspires with enemy forces ( considering the war's outcome ) to become the first " Queen of America " . She gets a jumps start by being a favorite mistress of Great Britain's King George III ( Jack Cosgrove ) . During the war , Ms . Gleason falls in love with sympathetic Howard Gaye ( as Lionel Esmond ) , who unknowingly holds a shocking secret - he's not only the would-be Queen's lover , but also her brother ! That wasn't what got producer Robert Goldstein's " The Spirit of ' 76 " in trouble ; rather , it was the film's depiction of British atrocities , including rape and baby-killing , during the American Revolution . Moreover , Mr . Goldstein was a German ; at the time , the US and the UK were aligned to fight against the Germans in the Great War ( World War II ) . Goldstein was sent to prison for film-making , unfortunately ; and , no prints of his infamous film are known to have survived the ages . The best way to experience the spirit of the film is through the pages and pictures in Anthony Slide's book " Robert Goldstein and The Spirit of ' 76 " ( Scarecrow Press , 1993 ) . The book has to be more interesting than the film , which could be described as a D . W . Griffith-inspired flicker , with some well-staged scenes . The Spirit of ' 76 ( / 17 ) Robert Goldstein - Adda Gleason , Howard Gaye , Jack Cosgrove
Enochlophobia on the Rocks	Jerry Lewis ( as Christopher Pride ) wants to marry Janet Leigh ( as Elizabeth " Liz " Acord ) and move to Paris , where he has been commissioned to design a mural . But , Psychiatrist Leigh doesn't want to leave her patients ; especially three strikingly beautiful women , who can't seem to develop romantic relationships with men . Mr . Lewis decides to assume three different alternate identities , in order to warm up the three frigid women , and free up fiancée Leigh . Will things get too hot ? Leigh and the three women ( Mary Ann Mobley , Leslie Parrish , and Gila Golan ) are lovely looking ; but , don't watch for them to run around in bikinis and towels a lot - - there isn't much skin on display . James Best ( as Ben Mizer ) handles the role of Lewis ' straight man well . The supporting cast performs ably ; Kathleen Freeman and Buddy Lester are always fun to watch , drunk or sober . Lewis plays his " main " personality and four others - - " Warren " , " Ringo " ( not Beatle-influenced ) , " Rutherford " , and " Heather " . They are not complicated characterizations and , so , are not among is best . " Three on a Couch " is interesting in its overindulgence . It's the Lewis brand , with a drink in one hand , and a cigarette in the other . Note , the script and situations are drenched in alcohol . This gives the film a " drunk " , enochlophobic feel . The film's closing " party " has a surreal quality , with guests pouring into spaces they shouldn't fit . Lewis directs this " party " scene very effectively , by the way ; his directorial skill is sometimes overshadowed by his on screen persona - - he might have been wise to peruse a parallel career directing movies in which he does not appear .
Five Guys , One Safe , No Brains	Despite its intriguing title , this film has nothing whatsoever to do with " Dark Shadows " ; Collinwood is an area in Cleveland , Ohio . Mainly , the film involves " down-and-out working stiffs " Sam Rockwell ( as Pero ) , Michael Jeter ( as Toto ) , Isaiah Washington ( as Leon ) , William H . Macy ( as Riley ) , and Andy Davoli ( as Basil ) . They plan " the BIG heist " - but things go comically wrong . Of the other players , George Clooney ( as Jerzy ) stands out - or , would that be sits out ? - as an expert the gang of five hires , for $500 , to learn safe-cracking . It's quite nice that Mr . Jeter's performance is a highlight , since this is one of his last . If only this comedy " re-make " of the Italian " I soliti ignoti " were funnier ? Welcome to Collinwood ( 2002 ) Anthony & Joe Russo - Sam Rockwell , Michael Jeter , George Clooney
Slippery When Wet	Sultry young Barbara Stanwyck ( as Lily Powers ) livens up her father's speakeasy with sassy sex appeal . Raised as a tramp , Ms . Stanwyck rejects a regular sex partner arranged for " protection " , and thinks about changing her life . When her abusive father dies in his still , Stanwyck goes to wicked New York City . She finds a personnel office on 47th Street , and begins exchanging sexual favors for success . But , is she really happy ? " Baby Face " starts out great ; Stanwyck is typically captivating , especially in the opening scenes . Her character's plight is very effectively conveyed . Note how she opens the speakeasy window and blows steel mill town soot off the plants ; it's a wonderful bit of business . And , the sexual frankness is welcome . Unfortunately , the film descends into an increasingly silly sex melodrama . Though Stanwyck remains entertaining throughout , her " true love " story is not convincingly developed . The bewitched men : George Brent ( as Trenholm ) , Donald Cook ( as Ned Stevens ) , Alphonse Ethier ( as Adolf Cragg ) , Henry Kolker ( as J . P . Carter ) , and young John Wayne ( as McCoy ) are entertaining foils . But , Theresa Harris ( as Chico ) gives the film's best performance ; regrettably , her character's potential slips along with everything else .
Mickey Hargitay as " The Crimson Executioner " Cries Out for Blood !	" At a remote castle , a group of models and a photographer are on location for a photo shoot . What the group doesn't realize is the castle is not abandoned , as they were led to believe , as a deranged and muscular madman has taken up residence in the castle . He believes himself to be the reincarnation of an executioner who was assigned to protect the castle against invaders , and the photographer and models are his next victims , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Translated from the Italian as " Bloody Pit of Horror " ( but " The Crimson Executioner " would have made more literal sense ) . This film feature a stupendous " over-the-top " performance from good-looking muscle-man Mickey Hargitay ( as Travis Anderson ) . In real life , Mr . Hargitay was freshly divorced from buxom actress Jayne Mansfield . Herein , there are no women to rival Ms . Mansfield , which is good when you consider the contraption in Hargitay's dungeon that slowly slits into the bound models ' protruding breasts . Il boia scarlatto ( 1965 ) Massimo Pupillo - Mickey Hargitay , Walter Brandi , Luisa Baratto
The Sincerest Form of Flattery	Director Allen Holubar's wartime D . W . Griffith imitation ; " Heart of Humanity " most closely resembles " Hearts of the World " ( 1918 ) , with actress / wife Dorothy Phillips ( as Nanette ) unsuccessfully impersonating Lillian Gish . Mr . Griffith took his cast to Europe ; but , Mr . Holubar begins closer to home , " In the Heart of Canada , " where Ms . Phillips blossoms . Judging by their longing looks , Phillips could have her pick among widow Margaret Mann ( as Mary Patricia ) ' s sons . Phillips picks the eldest , William Stowell ( as John ) . Erich von Stroheim ( as Eric von Eberhard ) steals the show ; he is Mr . Stowell's predictably two-faced friend . Robert Anderson ( as Paul ) also repeats his ( goofy ) " Hearts of the World " characterization . Mr . von Stroheim's role is much bigger than in " Hearts of the World " . And , von Stroheim certainly may have offered directorial advice ; observe , for instance , the sequence wherein the spider crawls under the neck of the Virgin Mary as Stroheim attempts to have his way with Phillips . The Stroheim " rape " scenes are the best in the film . With Stroheim around , assisting ( possibly ) in direction , Phillips is much more effective . The Heart of Humanity ( / 18 ) Allen Holubar - Dorothy Phillips , William Stowell , Erich von Stroheim
Re-treading Lightly	Handsome California student Paul Walker ( as Lewis Thomas ) gets a break from college studying , and takes off in his new ( to him ) 1971 Chrysler Newport . In Salt Lake City , Utah , he springs his fun-loving , delinquent brother Steve Zahn ( as Fuller Thomas ) from jail . While on their way to pick up cute Boulder , Colorado coed Leelee Sobieski ( as Venna ) , the men hear a trucker named " Rusty Nail " on their CB radio . In a joke cooked up by Mr . Zahn , Mr . Walker pretends to be a sexy woman named " Candy Cane " ; and , he sets up a date with the horny " Rusty Nail " . Alas , the trucker can't take a joke , and decides to terrorize the travelers ! John Dahl's " Joy Ride " features some good locations and camera-work , which doesn't add up to as much as it should , due to the film's huge storyline familiarities ; it's sometimes suspenseful , and seldom scary . The lead character , and his likely complicated relationships with a troubled brother and potential girlfriend , come across as unusually bland . The intriguing " villain " ( well-voiced by Ted Levine ) is , also , not too intense . The earlier parts of the film are more interesting , and / or original ( the brothers in the hotel room , for example ) . The latter acts are less effective retreads . Notably , Walker and Zahn have a contrived public nude scene , courtesy of " Rusty Nail " . The " cornfield " part of " North by Northwest " is employed ; and , the old " gun and door " trick was used with more clarity and suspense by Thayer David ( as Count Petofi ) on " Dark Shadows " ( episode # 841 ) . Joy Ride ( 2001 ) John Dahl - Paul Walker , Steve Zahn , Leelee Sobieski
Mary , Queen of Lots	In Elizabethan England , Mary Pickford ( as Dorothy Vernon ) is contracted by her father , Anders Randolf ( as George Vernon ) , to marry cousin Marc McDermott ( as Malcolm Vernon ) upon reaching the age of eighteen . But , Ms . Pickford also wants to marry Allan Forrest ( as John Manners ) . The " Lord " and " Lady " set of Rutland Castle and Haddon Hall await her decision . Who will Pickford choose ? " Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall " is an expectedly opulent Pickford production . Its strength is in the rich sets and photography displayed on screen ; Pickford regulars Charles Rosher and Marshall Neilan contribute . Nepotism is represented not only by the presence of sister Lottie in a supporting role , but also by brother-in-law Forrest , who is a likable leading man . Pickford employs a touch of slapstick humor early in the running time ; possibly , as she playing a teenager . Reaching maturation , the character , and film , become exceedingly lugubrious . Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall ( 1924 ) Marshall Neilan - Mary Pickford , Allan Forrest , Anders Randolf
The Sound and the Fury	Howard Keel and Kathryn Grayson are once happily married co-stars who get back together to star in a musical stage version of Shakespeare's " The Taming of the Shrew " . They let their personal animosity affect their roles . The main movie seems to be about Howard Keel's production of " The Taming of the Shrew " . The framing has to do with Mr . Keel and Ms . Grayson quarreling . Both stories are musicals . I must confess , I didn't " get " this movie at all . A couple of gangster types somehow become part of the play . They throw stuff , like Mr . Keel's banana , at the audience . I wasn't alive in 1953 to see this , originally ; but , I remember the song " Another Opening , Another Show " from somewhere - it's played from time to time , but wasn't in the film " Kiss Me Kate " ( TCM just explained it was cut ) . I found the storyline and characters featuring Ann Miller and Tommy Rall much more entertaining . The songs were terrific . Kiss Me Kate ( 1953 ) George Sidney - Howard Keel , Kathryn Grayson , Ann Miller
Make-Up to Break-Up	Early film directed by D . W . Griffith ; with Blanche Sweet giving a noteworthy performance . She is a young woman forbidden , by her father ( Charles Hill Mailes ) , to wear make-up . When she goes to an ice cream social , she attracts little attention , while the Griffith men go for " The Painted Lady " . Dejected , she meets a stranger in town ( Joseph Graybill ) ; at last ! a man shows interest in the unpainted Ms . Sweet . They begin to meet secretly . Sadly , the man is really interested in her father's money - in disguise , he goes to rob Sweet's home ; then , our heroine gets a gun to confront the thief ? Sweet is entertaining in the starring role , relaying all the proper emotions with her face and gestures . There is a continuity distraction - note that the man's hat as he lies down seems to pop back on his head inexplicably . " The Painted Lady " ' s message doesn't really make too much sense . Why is Sweet is the only woman who suffers the consequences of frivolous femininity ? The Painted Lady ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Blanche Sweet , Charles Hill Mailes , Joseph Graybill
Rambo Against Satan	" A young couple is forced to confront the ultimate horror when Satan decides to claim the young woman as his own . The boyfriend consults with two priests in the hopes of getting guidance on his spiritual dilemma . The two priests in turn decide to perform an exorcism in order to rid the woman of her possession . The boyfriend and the exorcists are pitted in a battle for the woman's soul with Satan and his clan of worshipers , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . This television movie has its strengths ; however , the story is very weak , and the production values do not entirely satisfy the need for horrific moments . For example , the cats perform well - - but , they are not very scary . Still , writer Jimmy Sangster and director Paul Wendkos handle the assignment well . The reason the Satanists could not simply kill the hero was one of the nicer touches ( though , arguably , it's inconsistent ) . The unsatisfying ending suggests a sequel or series was planned . There are several fine performances . Dack Rambo ( as Andy Stuart ) is quite likable in the lead role ; he is very appealing as the persistent , romantic magazine writer who meets fashion designer Elyssa Davalos in San Francisco , after denting her car . Due to an opening prologue , we know Ms . Davalos is likely the woman chosen to birth the " Anti-Christ " . Davalos provides the " Rosemary's Baby " recall , and Kim Cattrall ( as Linda ) helps add " The Exorcist " to the proceedings . Thankfully , Mr . Rambo and his co-stars stay focused on their characterizations , and don't venture " over the top " . Priestly John Harkins ( as Father Wheatley ) is always a welcome supporting player ; he was unforgettable on " Dark Shadows " , blackmailing Chris Pennock and frightening Joan Bennett ; and , of course , Mr . Harkins delivered the eulogy for the dearly departed " Chuckles the Clown " , causing Mary Tyler Moore's laughing fit . Priestly Dan O'Herlihy ( as Father Kemschler ) was a part of the " Shadows " - swipe " Dark Mansions " and essayed many memorable characters ; his supporting roles in " RoboCop " and " Twin Peaks " are memorable . Devilish Richard Lynch ( as Rimmin ) , meddling Erica Yohn ( as Agnes ) , and resolute Peggy McCay ( as Irene ) are also appealing . If only the story were better ? Good Against Evil ( / 77 ) Paul Wendkos - Dack Rambo , Elyssa Davalos , Richard Lynch
Rosy Scenario	Wealthy American women Marian Lee ( as Mrs . Herriman-Smith ) and Helen Howard ( as Mrs . Jeanne Du Vivier ) are convinced the latter's house cleaner " Rosy Taylor " is a ghost , after they learn she has kept up chores after her reported death . Then , the story flashes back ? ? to begin in a French town , where pretty Mary Miles Minter ( as Rhoda Eldridge ) lives with her poor father , George Periolat ( as Charles Eldridge ) . When her sickly father dies , Ms . Minter learns he was a self-exiled American named Charles Sayles . Penniless , Minter gets a job as nursemaid to a wealthy woman voyaging to the United States ; so , Minter returns to her ancestral home . In America , Minter has trouble with lodging and employment . Finally , she manages to earn some money posing as the departed " Rosy Taylor " , servant for Ms . Howard . Then , while working , she is startled by the appearance of Howard's brother Allan Forrest ( as Jacques Le Clerc ) ; the hung-over man reports Minter to the authorities as a burglar , and she is sent to reform school . Minter escapes , and returns to work . Again , she meets Mr . Forrest , romance blooms , and mysteries unravel ? After a flashback , the film cleverly returns to the opening situation . Otherwise , this is a fairly routine Minter vehicle ; it resolves itself too quickly , and leaves promising characterization undeveloped . Minter is charming ; she was a genuine " child star " who remained very popular as a young woman , until her career ended in the wake of the scandal involving the shooting death of her then ( 1922 ) director / lover William Desmond Taylor . Supporting player Kate Price is memorable as kind-hearted landlady " Mrs . Sullivan " . Nitrate decomposition frequently mars the picture , but the film retains its integrity
The Passion of Pola Negri	The life story of French milliner's maid Pola Negri ( as Jeanne Marie Vaubernier ) , who becomes the famed mistress ( " Madame Du Barry " ) of Emil Jannings ( as King Louis XV ) . Unfortunately , the French Revolution catches " rags to riches " Ms . Negri on the wrong side of polite society . Her stalwart first love Harry Liedtke ( as Armand de Foix ) attempts to help out , but only to a point . This film is more important than entertaining , as it was director Ernst Lubitsch and cast's foray into much of the English speaking audience's world . The passionate performances raised both eyebrows and profits . However , the stodginess overwhelms scenes like lustful Mr . Jannings sending Negri into rapture by stuffing a scroll down her cleavage . Mr . Liedtke might have become bigger star in the USA , if fate were different ; he and Negri have great chemistry . Madame DuBarry ( / 19 ) Ernst Lubitsch - Pola Negri , Harry Liedtke , Emil Jannings
The Living Dead End	Bela Lugosi ( as Murder Legendre ) dabbles in odd things ; for example , he has created a crew of zombies to work sugar mills in Haiti . The island is a center of voodoo and mysticism , which makes it the perfect operational center for the hypnotic Mr . Lugosi . One evening , while walking around the local graveyard with some of his dead friends , Lugosi happens upon a coach carrying John Harron ( as Neil Parker ) and Madge Bellamy ( as Madeline Short ) . Mr . Harron and Ms . Bellamy are in Haiti to visit cruise acquaintance Robert Frazer ( as Charles Beaumont ) , and get married . Harron and Bellamy don't ( seem to ) know it , but Mr . Frazer has fallen in love with Bellamy . So , Frazer visits Lugosi , who considers turning the fair young Bellamy into a zombie . Actually , Lugosi seems to have planned the transformation from ( at least ) the opening scenes ( note when he snatches her spell enhancing scarf ) . Newlywed Harron is , of course , displeased with the whole affair . After drowning his sorrows , Harron begins to investigate the unfolding sinister events , enlisting the help of missionary Joseph Cawthorn ( as Dr . Bruner ) . Naturally , Lugosi contributes to some eerie visuals . Harron is strongest when suffering ; a nice scene has him getting drunk , with some shadowy figures closing in . Bellamy is strongest whilst spellbound ; a nice scene has her walking through a rock-like opening that matches the design on her dress . " White Zombie " is an entirely too stiff thriller , partially redeemed by some creepy atmosphere . The story might be improved by combining elements of the " Beaumont " character into the roles played by Lugosi and Harron ( just for starters ) . You may wonder about Lugosi taking what he calls a " fancy " to Frazer ; especially , when you consider the general gender of his staff . And , get ready to say , " Hi-ho Silver , away ! " when Brandon Hurst's butler makes his big splash . White Zombie ( / 32 ) Victor Halperin - Bela Lugosi , John Harron , Madge Bellamy
" F " in History	After graduating from West Point , handsome cadet Errol Flynn ( as Jeb Stuart ) finds romance with lovely Olivia de Havilland ( as Kit Carson Holliday ) , and fights abolitionist Raymond Massey ( as John Brown ) . Along the old Santa Fe Trail , politics is on everyone's mind . Mr . Massey wants to free slaves through terrorism ; but , Mr . Flynn believes the " Negro " problem will work itself out peacefully . Ms . de Havilland wonders whether Kansas should join the US as a slave , or free state . The slaves are frightened . " Santa Fe Trail " is very nice looking historical fiction . Director Michael Curtiz and company are clearly accomplished filmmakers . The co-starring team is charming , as usual ; and , Ms . de Havilland creates a great female characterization , with the limited material given . The best performance is offered by Van Heflin ( as Carl Rader ) ; his character grabs the spotlight very early , and never really lets go . Although it would have been out of the question in a Flynn film , it might have been nice to retool the script around Mr . Heflin's duplicitous character . Mr . Massey , a bug-eyed psycho at one point , would play a more flattering Brown in " Seven Angry Men " ( 1955 ) . The film plays too fast and loose with facts for comport . Its point of view is not vague : that the South recognized the immorality of slavery , and would have worked it out peacefully ; and , that abolitionists practiced unnecessary terrorism . This film's portrayal of " The Negro Problem " is offensive .
Two Girls , a Sailor , and a Variety Show	Extremely long World War II story about " Two Girls and a Sailor " ( portrayed by June Allyson , Gloria DeHaven , and Van Johnson ) . The threesome from the customary " love triangle " - will Sailor Johnson choose pert June Allyson or sexy Gloria DeHaven ? The film would be more accurately titled , " Two Girls , a Sailor , and a Variety Show " because the singing sisters aren't just shown at work - every act in their musical revue is shown . It's like a Musical spliced with a Variety Show ; and , it clocks in at over two hours without ever becoming anything more than low average . June Allyson , Jimmy Durante , Harry James , and Gracie Allen have fine moments ; and , it's nice to see " Inka Dinka Doo " and all of the other 1944 era acts preserved on film . Two Girls and a Sailor ( 1944 ) Richard Thorpe - June Allyson , Van Johnson , Gloria DeHaven
A Reform School Knock-Out	While waiting for the jury's decision at her murder trial , beautiful Loretta Young ( as Mary Martin ) recalls her life , in flashback . An unfortunate childhood ends with Ms . Young being sent to a reform school ; upon release , she falls in with a bad crowd , led by handsome Ricardo Cortez ( as Leo Darcy ) . In an attempt to go legit , moll Young meets suave lawyer Franchot Tone ( as Tom Mannering Jr . ) ; and , they fall in love . Then , predictably , Young's past catches up with her ? Young and chum Una Merkel ( as Bunny ) are remarkably good playing themselves as young girls , in the opening ; and , Mr . Cortez plays his final scene very well , as directed by William A . Wellman . An interesting , but irrelevant , newspaper headline reads , " Hitler Said to Be Gaining in Popularity " , after Andy Devine ( as Sam Travers ) ' s voice cracks . Midnight fun .
Don't Give Up Hope	Baby photographer Bob Hope ( as Ronnie Jackson ) is on death row , for a murder he didn't commit . While preparing for his stint in the ( laughing ) gas chamber , Mr . Hope tells his story , in flashback ? Hope isn't happy taking baby pictures . His real desire is to become a successful a private detective , like " Sam Spade " or " Philip Marlowe " . To wit , Hope is hired by beautiful Baroness Dorothy Lamour ( as Carlotta Montay ) , to solve the mystery of her missing husband / uncle ? Medium done Hope is better than most , not as good as some . The material is a bit lame , but Hope handles it expertly . Peter Lorre ( as Kismet ) and Lon Chaney Jr . ( as Willie ) lead a fine supporting cast . The frequent co-starred Ms . Lamour is a perfectly subtle spoof counterpoint to Hope's wisecracking coward . Alan Ladd and Bing Crosby bookend the film with two highly entertaining " cameo " appearances . The stuffing in-between gets a little too long and thin , at times . My Favorite Brunette ( 1947 ) Elliott Nugent - Bob Hope , Dorothy Lamour , Peter Lorre
A Neighborhood of Plain People in an American City of Today	An average family's life is disrupted when they inadvertently witness gangsters murder two men ; one is a policeman . Walter Huston ( as Whitlock ) is the district attorney who will become involved with the case . The family is headed by Frances Starr and Grant Mitchell ( as Ma and Pa Leeds ) . The Leeds ' have four children : George Ernest ( as Donny ) , Dickie Moore ( as Ned ) , Edward J . Nugent ( as Jackie ) , and Sally Blane ( as Sue ) . Just before the shootings , the Leeds family is visited by Ma's drunken father Charles " Chic " Sale ( as Private " Gramps " Summerill ) . The Leeds family is terrorized by the gangsters ; of course , they do not want any of the family to identify the shooter ( nicely mugging Ralph Ince ) . The gangsters strong-arm and , eventually , kidnap one of the Leeds boys ( Ernest as Donny ) . But , interestingly , Mr . Sale ( as " Gramps " ) seems to put his " country " over his grandson , and agrees to become " The Star Witness " . Sale's drunken old grandfather portrayal is more than a little hard to take ; and , the character is an odd vehicle in which to support the " patriotic " point-of-view expressed by " The Law " ( Huston ) . Ernest does an excellent job , especially in the scene with ex-baseball player Mike Donlin ( as Mickey ) ; and , William A . Wellman directed the film's action sequences well .
Debbie Reynolds and Tony Randall are an Odd Couple	Rambunctious Debbie Reynolds ( as Mariette Larkin ) gets the urge to mate with tax collector Tony Randall ( as Lorenzo Charlton ) . And , he wants to mate with her ! - How ? - Well , farming father Paul Douglas ( as Sidney " Pa " Larkin ) doesn't pay taxes ; he trades things , and raises piglets . Maryland " Ma " Una Merkel raises children , and bakes blueberry pies . Ms . Reynolds rides a pig into wealthy neighbor Philip Ober ( as Wendell Burnshaw ) ' s mansion , prompting Mr . Ober to summon Mr . Randall from the IRS ( Internal Revenue Service ) . Will Randall collect taxes , Reynolds , or both ? Reynolds and Randall are not a very convincing romantic couple . They should have considered casting , perhaps , Sandra Dee and Troy Donahue . Randall dances a drunken melody of " Frère Jacques " / " I've Got You Under My Skin " . This is followed by an impossibly implausible ( even for this type of film ) implied sex scene , with Reynolds . Director George Marshall gives it an appropriate feature-length " sit-com " treatment ; but , the material makes the increasing slapstick more painful than funny ( witness the " barn " fight scene ) . The supporting cast , with its old pros and fresh faces , is a treasure trove , however . The Mating Game ( 1959 ) George Marshall - Debbie Reynolds , Tony Randall , Paul Douglas
Mike Fright	MGM's " Hollywood Revue " often comes off like an elaborate amateur " Talent Show " from an otherwise uninvolved in show business group of people . It could be any school , or workplace . Everyone gets a role , and a few people stand out . The early appearance by Joan Crawford sets the tone . She is clearly not at her best , performing a song and dance ; but , she is enthusiastic . So , the company's workforce goes through their assigned tasks , for better or worse . As a variety show , the movie is sometimes good ; but , the brighter spots can't justify its length . It's also a chance to see some big name " stars " in a disappointing light . Without a doubt , the three MGM stars shining brightest are the non-appearing Greta Garbo , Lon Chaney , and Ramon Novarro . Mr . Navarro would have appeared ; but , he was abroad , with his family . Of those appearing , Conrad Nagel and Jack Benny ( his debut ) do well hosting . Mr . Nagel is especially good , singing " You Were Meant for Me " ( to Anita Page ) well enough to have pursued a singing career . Nagel and Bessie Love were already " sound " investments for MGM . The middle rendition of " Singin ' in the Rain " ( the black and white one ) is nice looking ; and , it's a terrific song . Plans to make the " Hollywood Revue " an annual embarrassment were canceled . The Hollywood Revue of 1929 ( 1929 ) Charles Reisner - Jack Benny , Conrad Nagel , John Gilbert
The People versus Don Knotts	Clean and decent ornithologist Don Knotts ( as Abner Peacock IV ) is about to see his poor-selling bird-watching magazine peck it in . Meanwhile , smut-peddling publisher Edmond O'Brien ( as Osborne Tremain ) loses his magazine's license , due to pornographic content . To continue printing his bosomy babes , O'Brien tricks Knotts into turning over his periodical's editorial content . After sending Knotts off on safari , O'Brien turns the tame " Peacock's Magazine " into a titillating masturbatory aide . Knotts returns to find himself corralled into becoming the defendant in a " free speech " case . With assistance from enterprising editor Anne Francis ( as Lisa La Monica ) , Knotts is transformed into a Hugh Hefner-type publishing giant . Then , Ms . Francis falls in love with playboy Knotts . . . Knotts can't help but be funny ; this particular characterization was perfected in his role of " Mr . Furley " on the TV series " Three's Company " . His " Abner Peacock " is little less sure , perhaps necessarily so , considering the times . Note , the screeching and shouting was not part of Knotts ' later routine . Under-appreciated writer / director Nat Hiken cleverly mixes satire and sexy women . " The Love God ? " is colorful , and features a delightful supporting cast . Unfortunately , by the last act , the film's direction , and humor , has pointedly unraveled . The Love God ? ( 1969 ) Nat Hiken - Don Knotts , Anne Francis , Edmond O'Brien
Spanish Trail Mix-Up	With " The Great Southwestern Tent Show " in town , cowboy king Roy Rogers ( as Roy Rogers ) learns a featured attraction , his singing " Sons of the Pioneers " pals , have a $10 , 000 I . O . U . debt due . From sleepwalking constable Andy Devine ( as Cookie Bullfincher ) , Mr . Rogers learns about a convenient $10 , 000 reward for the capture of a bandit known as " The Gypsy " . Rogers wants to capture the Spanish outlaw , and pay off his friends ' debt . But , Rogers ' target , Tito Guízar ( as Rico ) , may not be the guiltiest gun in the west ? This colorful " cross-over " western for singing cowboys Rogers and Mr . Guízar is better than " The Gay Ranchero " ( 1948 ) , a similar vehicle . Pretty Dale Evans stand-in Jane Frazee ( as Candy Martin ) arouses romantic feelings in both men ; she has an amusing introductory scene , with Rogers collecting her undergarments from a fallen suitcase - watch as he holds her slip in his teeth ! Estelita Rodriguez ( as Lola ) is memorable . The songs are smooth and forgettable , except for Ms . Rodriguez ' lively " Guadalajara " . The ending is well staged . On the Old Spanish Trail ( 1947 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Tito Guízar , Estelita Rodriguez
Don't Take Any Wooden Yen	Suave submarine skipper Cary Grant ( as Cassidy ) leads a Christian crew from San Francisco to Tokyo Bay , to fight the Godless Japanese . A flag-waver , " Destination Tokyo " sailed into theaters while World War II was being fought . Debuting director Delmer Daves and his cast manage to deliver some engaging performances , despite a stereotyped script , and some occasionally toyish production values . Star Grant is enjoyable , albeit not entirely successful , in an atypical war hero role . Soldiering John Garfield ( as Wolf ) and Dane Clark ( as Tin Can ) head up a likable crew . Veteran fellow traveler Alan Hale ( as Cookie ) goes through the motions , which is enough . Mr . Clark and John Forsythe ( as Sparks ) make good early career impressions . John Ridgely ( as Raymond ) , Warner Anderson ( as Andy ) , and Tom Tully ( as Mike ) are also featured . The uncredited cast is noteworthy , including Whit Bissell ( as Yo Yo ) and Carlyle Blackwell Jr . ; the latter's father , Carlyle Blackwell ( Sr . ) , was one of Hollywood's first genuine " superstar " actors . The most amusing " dramatic " interplay culminates with inexperienced William Prince ( as Pills ) deciding to operate on impossibly doe-eyed Robert Hutton ( as Tommy ) ' s ruptured appendix . Ouch ! Destination Tokyo ( 1943 ) Delmer Daves - Cary Grant , John Garfield , Dane Clark
Missed It by That Much !	Gary Cooper plays a singing cowboy named Melody Jones who is mistaken for a robber named Monte Jarrad ( they have the same initials ) . Loretta Young is his love interest Cherry de Longpre - she helps out Mr . Cooper and pal William Demarest . The odd character names are a a clue this was intended as a comedy . With a couple of exceptions , the comedy isn't all that funny . There are other times when " Along Came Jones " didn't look at all comic ? so , I was confused . The best part of the film is the first kiss between Cooper and Ms . Young . It happens after they do a saddle switch . Cooper wipes his lips on his sleeve and kisses Young . Then she says , " Thank you ! " in brilliant movie star focus - do not miss this kiss ! The worst part of the film was the obvious cheap looking way they rode along on their horses in front of a projection screen . Even worse that that is the fact that you can't really tell , from the overall film , how we ( audiences ) are supposed to take the movie . Whatever the filmmakers intended missed , obviously . I'll take it as a comedy with top stars and a couple of good laughs . Along Came Jones ( 1945 ) Stuart Heisler - Gary Cooper , Loretta Young , William Demarest
Lost and Found in Las Vegas	Since this captures Elvis at the beginning of his white jump-suited Vegas years , it's valuable . The song performances range from great to rushed , depending on what kind of effort Elvis wants to put into a particular song . As a total performance , it is good - but , it doesn't tell the whole musical story that is Elvis Presley . As a documentary , it's no great shakes . Since we knew Elvis was an extraordinary vocalist , what else doe the film show ? I was surprised by the backstage " banter " sessions - it looked , to me , like some of Elvis ' friends and personnel were confused about their own relationships with " The King " . They seemed , at times , more like idol-worshiping fans than real friends - laughing at bad jokes and demonstrating random subservience . Elvis ' fame must have been difficult all those concerned . Elvis - That's the Way It Is ( 1970 ) Denis Sanders - Elvis Presley , James Burton , Red West
It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad Magician !	This was enjoyable , but certainly no classic . It's fun to watch the actor Vincent Price in these insane roles . I was surprised to read , in the credits , Eva Gabor was a player ; I thought she looked familiar , but she did not have the familiar wig from later years . The furnace was hot , but the disguises were easy to see through , I thought . The final scene had good suspense , but I knew Mr . Price's character was going to hop on that conveyor belt . Lenita Lane and Jay Novello seemed very familiar as the Prentiss couple . They must have played these kind of roles in other films ; they should starred in a TV sit-com . The Mad Magician ( 1954 ) John Brahm - Vincent Price , Mary Murphy , Eva Gabor
Watch for Garbo	This film begins with a failed set-up : specifically , Ms . Garbo's younger sister marries , and it is implied that Garbo is becoming an " old maid " . Suddenly , Mr . Marshall's doctor character reveals he has been in love with Garbo since they were 12-year-old schoolchildren . At last , Garbo has a suitor ! At last , Dr . Marshall finds a woman ! Then , the entire supporting cast is wiped away as the quickly wedded couple moves to China . In China , Garbo wears funny hats and attracts the attention of Mr . Brent . Now , the film is a " love triangle " . Next , cholera erupts , giving the doctor's life much purpose ( a " War on Cholera " ) . About an hour into the film , Garbo begins to give flashes of a fascinating acting performance - peaking in the scene where she makes coffee for estranged husband Marshall . Her skills are wasted , however , in this poorly executed film . The Painted Veil ( / 34 ) Richard Boleslawski - Greta Garbo , Herbert Marshall , George Brent
A Light Touch of Class	Suffering hard times in South Bend , hefty Marie Dressler ( as Marie Truffle ) moves her poverty-stricken family to New York . There , she moves in with her generous , more well-to-do sister Polly Moran ( as Polly Rochay ) . Ms . Dressler joins Ms . Moran at work in her " Beauty Parlor " and " Reducing " salon , with calamitous results . Dressler is frequently funny , and Moran mostly so ; but , the comedy suffers whenever the focus becomes their respective daughters ' love story . Dressler and Moran squabble over the younger women's interest in the same man , which becomes an issue about class . Still , Dressler is terrific , especially in the first half . And , capable daughters Anita Page ( as Vivian Truffle ) and Sally Eilers ( as Joyce Rochay ) strengthen the weaker parts . Reducing ( 1931 ) Charles Reisner - Marie Dressler , Polly Moran , Anita Page
A Glad Look at an Old Book	Eleanor H . Porter's eternally optimistic " Pollyanna " ( Elizabeth Archard ) makes an earnest , faithful multi-hour English teleplay . But , faithful adaptations need to take the change of medium into consideration , and this production falters in following the novel rather laboriously . Its long , detailed establishment of characters and events results in some unnecessary dullness . Note the more well-known versions : 1920's " Pollyanna " ( Mary Pickford ) translated very nicely into the silent film format , while 1960's " Pollyanna ( Hayley Mills ) added too much " sugar " ( an unnecessary additive , considering this story ) . And , viewing too much of " Pollyanna " in one sitting is not for the faint of heart - you may want to start out with small doses . Cheers to Ms . Archard and her young leading man , Stephen Galloway ( as Jimmy Bean ) , as both demonstrate the presence and skill to have had more substantial acting careers . Slightly older Paddy Frost ( as Nancy ) and Robert Coleby ( as Timothy ) are also very engaging . Elaine Stritch ( as Aunt Polly ) , Ray McAnally ( as John Pendleton ) , and the location are also worth a look . Pollyanna ( - / 73 ) June Wyndham-Davies - Elizabeth Archard , Elaine Stritch , Stephen Galloway
When Time Isn't Kind	Most old films noted as " of historical interest only " are actually very entertaining . " Rio Rita " is not . It is one of the better examples of the " historically interesting " film . It's also helpful if you view it as a extravagantly filmed stage production . The 1927-28 stage musical , produced by Florenz Ziegfeld , was a colossal success . And , the too long film version was voted 1927's fourth " Best Picture " , in the annual poll conducted by " Film Daily " . The opportunity to see " Rio Rita " on screen , in partial color , with popular Bebe Daniels ( as Rita Ferguson ) in her first speaking ( and singing ) role , proved irresistible at the box office . Ms . Daniels did not equal her 1920s silent successes , but extended her popularity into the early " talkie " era . Check out the debuting comedy team of Wheeler and Woolsey ( with Dorothy Lee ) in " Hips , Hips , Hooray ! " for a better representation of their work . Rio Rita ( 1929 ) Luther Reed - Bebe Daniels , Bert Wheeler , Robert Woolsey
Love Minus Zero	Cute theater usherette Clara Bow ( as Helen " Bunny " O'Day ) agrees to apartment sit for a friend , and unexpectedly finds the premises serve as a center for illegal gambling . There , she meets suave , but crooked , Norman Foster ( as Douglas " Doug " Thayer ) . Mr . Foster is hot-and-bothered , and Bow is head-over-heels . " I thought you had ' It ' , " he tells her . Although Bow had long admired Foster's looks , she is put off by his forwardness . But , he pursues her to the alter . Can their marriage survive his underworld ties ? Paramount photography by Victor Milner gets " No Limit " off to a terrific start . The locations are great . Bow seems more self-assured than in previous " talkies " ; her voice was never as big a problem as were her nerves . It's difficult to believe Foster would fail to recognize Bow , even in the dark ; but , he is both a convincing and endearing heel . Stu Erwin ( as Ole Olson ) plays the unfortunate " dumb Swede " . The film provides an opportunity to see the first Mrs . Bing Crosby , pretty Dixie Lee Crosby ( as Dotty " Dodo " Potter ) . And , don't forget , Gary Cooper appears in " Fighting Caravans " . No Limit ( 1931 ) Frank Tuttle - Clara Bow , Norman Foster , Dixie Lee Crosby
The Great Missed Opportunity	Heralded , " This story is based on a true incident . Men of the Saint Louis Police Department play the same parts they did in the actual crime , " which is one of the less interesting elements about this film . Directors Charles Guggenheim and John Stix ' documentary-style approach is more interesting . And , an early Steve McQueen stars ; although , obviously , this is before he found a feature film persona that worked . Trumping all in the interest department , however , is the homosexual relationships between the characters , both real and imagined . Mr . McQueen ( as George Fowler ) is a college drop-out , trying to lead the straight life . He is tempted into a life of crime , however , by ex-girlfriend Molly McCarthy ( as Ann ) ' s brother David Clarke ( as Gino ) . McQueen and Mr . Clarke have partnered up ; but , the roommates have had a difficult time finding honest work . So , they involve themselves with a bank heist , masterminded by Crahan Denton ( as John Eagan ) . The fifth wheel in the cast is getaway driver James Dukas ( as Willie ) . Mr . Dukas gives the film's best performance ; and , he has the most interesting role . Dukas began with head honcho Denton when he was a younger , thinner " kid " , a fact Denton cruelly enjoys mentioning ; and , the two obviously became lovers . They have a terrific bickering scene , which ends with Denton ordering Dukas , " Go take a bath , Willie . " Denton wants the younger McQueen to drive his getaway car , which makes Dukas very jealous . Too bad that jukebox could only afford to play one record . With a bigger budget , " The Great St . Louis Bank Robbery " coulda been a contenda .
Clara Bow Calls It Quits	Fresh-faced student Richard Cromwell ( as Chris Miller ) jumps off a train , to join father Preston Foster ( as Nifty Miller ) ' s traveling carnival . Mr . Foster wants his son to stay away from the sleazy side-show folk , and pursue his interest in becoming a lawyer ; but , Mr . Cromwell wants to spend some quality time with his dad . With the kid around , Foster must move bed-partner Minna Gombell ( as Carrie ) to other quarters ; so , she slips under the covers with Clara Bow ( as Lou ) . Ms . Gombell doesn't appreciate losing her bed-space to Cromwell ; so , she asks Ms . Bow to seduce him . Bow says she doesn't want to be a " cradle robber " , but changes her mind for $100 . 00 . Bow and Cromwell try to make it believable , after her swimming scene ( to their credit ) ; but , watching them is like watching Mae West seduce Charles Ray . A re-make of " The Barker " doesn't seem like an inappropriate vehicle ; however , " Hoop-la " exploits the plumper Bow's past and ( at the time ) notoriety . This is precisely the kind of exploitation Bow should have been moving away from , at this point in her career . Not an awful film , all things considered . But not enough for Bow to carry on after all the " Hoop-la " . So Bow , born within only two years of Joan Crawford , Greta Garbo , and Katharine Hepburn ? sadly , retired . Hoop-la ( 1933 ) Frank Lloyd - Clara Bow , Richard Cromwell , Preston Foster
Giving Global Warming the Cold Shoulder	Global Warming is accelerated to incredible levels , propelling the planet Earth into another Ica Age . Most frequently , the cameras find climatologist Dennis Quaid ( as Jack Hall ) and estranged son Jake Gyllenhaal ( as Sam Hall ) . Both men are strong , and smart . Mr . Quaid is one of the few who knows the seriousness of the matter . Mr . Gyllenhaal is smarter than his calculus teacher ; he does appear like he's been " kept back " a few years in high school , but this is probably because teachers are jealous of Gyllenhaal's intelligence . Quaid has not won any " Father of the Year " awards ; but , he really loves his son . Can Quaid save Gyllenhaal from the Global Warming monster ? Indulgent cliché-ridden idiocy ! Some money was obviously spent on " The Day After Tomorrow " , which means there are exciting , well-produced scenes . Roland Emmerich is an obviously very skillful filmmaker ; but , his story premises favor mindless blockbusters over enduring classics . The story renders its serious subject unintentionally ( ? ) nonsensical ; although , it is , admittedly , only a movie . Emmy Rossum ( as Laura Chapman ) and Sela Ward ( as Lucy Hall ) are the lovely love interests . Capable Ian Holm ( as Terry Rapson ) doesn't have much to do . Everyone watches FOX " News " channels . No wonder ! The Day After Tomorrow ( 2004 ) Roland Emmerich - Dennis Quaid , Jake Gyllenhaal , Emmy Rossum
Train in Vain	Railroad rider Grant Withers ( Bill White ) is a bit of a carouser , overindulging in alcohol and romancing salty waitress Joan Blondell ( as Marie ) . His best pal Regis Toomey ( Jack Kulper ) has settled down with sweet pea planting wife Mary Astor ( as Lily Kulper ) . After a drunken escapade , Mr . Withers gets tossed out of his boardinghouse ; then , he moves in with the Kulpers . There , he falls in love with Ms . Astor , his best friend's wife ? Highly improbable melodrama , with a nonsensical , but somewhat riveting , ending . J . Farrell MacDonald ( as Peg Leg ) and James Cagney ( as Eddie ) are entertaining , in supporting roles . Director William A . Wellman , photographer Barney McGill , and the rain give the film a very nice " look " ; but , it's train in vain . Other Men's Women ( 1931 ) William A . Wellman - Grant Withers , Mary Astor , Regis Toomey
The Sanitarium in the Sierras	Roy Rogers returns to an old boyhood hometown in the Sierras , where he discovers poachers killing off the area deer . Mr . Rogers finds an abandoned fawn , and brings it to " The Sanitarium " - an animal refuge run by old friend Harry Cheshire ( as Cap . Foster ) ; there , he finds Mr . Cheshire treating the fawn's mother for a bullet wound . When the animal-loving Cheshire stumbles upon the gang of poachers , he is murdered . Rogers must find those responsible . Sheriff Andy Devine ( as " Cookie " ) lends an occasional hand . The characterizations are very good ; especially , the introduction , and disposal , of the character played by Harry Cheshire ( " Cap Foster " ) . The characters played by Stephanie Bachelor ( " Miss Loring " ) and Hal Landon ( " Bert " ) are also nicely drawn . Memorably , Rogers is dramatically beaten and left for dead in a meat freezer . Of course , Rogers escapes frozen death - and the ensuing shootout is quite exciting . During the obligatory shootout , note that the shots fired actually mean something ; there is no pointless shooting , so a sense of real danger prevails . " Good Girl " Jane Frazee and " Bad Girl " Loring have a cool fistfight , too . Bob Nolan and the Sons of the Pioneers demonstrate some excellent harmony and backing vocals on " A Cowboy Has To Sing " . On the other hand , " Oh , What a Picture " is dreadful - not only for Mr . Devine's " comedy " vocal , but also for ruining the dramatic pace of the film . A redundant comedy interlude follows almost immediately ( " What are You Going to Do Then ? " ) ; only one , if any , is really needed . The title song " Springtime in the Sierras " has a strained film tie-in . Springtime in the Sierras ( 1947 ) William Witney - Roy Rogers , Jane Frazee , Andy Devine
Mermaid Doris Loses Her Bottom	The script , pacing , and editing of " The Glass Bottom Boat " fail Doris Day and Rod Taylor . It's a shame , because the movie seemed to have had a lot to offer . Surprisingly , Ms . Day plays an attractive divorced woman who has given up on romance ; instead , she enjoys her job , and a " family " of animals . Mr . Taylor , we assume , is otherwise interested in twentysomethings , but he is attracted to Day . Their introductory scene has Day half-naked , so we know Taylor is aware her sexual allure is not faltering . I thought their relationship was far to underplayed - Day subtlety touches on it in a scene following a romantic encounter ; but , we know too little of the lead characters ' past . The supporting players are fantastic - Paul Lynde looks great as a woman , showing he could have also played Endora on " Bewitched " ( as well as Uncle Arthur ) ! BUT , the script doesn't gel - it's a shame Taylor revealed he thought Day's character was too stupid to be a spy . Later , he says he loves her banana cream pies ; yet , we are left believing he really thinks she is stupid . They should have yelled , " RE-WRITE ! " The Glass Bottom Boat ( 1966 ) Frank Tashlin - Doris Day , Rod Taylor , Paul Lynde
Whispering Past the Railroad	Colorful , but dull , tale of two friends " working on the railroad . " Alan Ladd plays the friend who falls a little more to the good side of the tracks - and Robert Preston plays the friend who bends over more on the wrong side of the tracks . Of course , there is a Woman between them ? she married one , but longs for the other - or , maybe she loved / loves them both ? The sets and photography are lovely . There is a big railroad and train running through town , which means robbers , and a lot of shooting , are obligatory . I guess the ending could be interpreted as a little open-ended , but I think Mr . Preston decides whether Mr . Ladd lives - or dies . . . Whispering Smith ( 1948 ) Leslie Fenton - Alan Ladd , Robert Preston , Brenda Marshall
Torn Between Two Lovers	Marion Leonard ( as Fanny ) and James Kirkwood ( as Ben ) seem to be a happily married couple . One day , Mr . Kirkwood goes out on a hunting jaunt , in a canoe ; when he rises to fire at some game , the canoe capsizes . Apparently a poor swimmer , Kirkwood is rescued by nearby hunter Frank Powell ( as Ed ) . Mr . Powell helps dry Kirkwood off , and the two crawl under a blanket for the evening . The next morning , Kirkwood thanks Powell for his kindness , and goes on his way . Then , Ms . Leonard meets Powell , while on one of her shopping trips ; and , they kindle an attraction . Soon , Leonard and Powell are meeting regularly , and decide to run away together , leaving Kirkwood in the cold ? Remarkable 1909 story , content-wise , from D . W . Griffith , G . W . Bitzer , and the good folks at Biograph . Leonard's performance as a " torn-between-two-loves " woman is a highlight , ahead of its time . Her leading men do are quite good , also , with some implausible situations . " Fools of Fate " is a cut above the usual , due to its interesting premise , and Marion Leonard's performance .
Boys in the Hood	A success in its day , " Boys Town " is the story of how a Priest saves his " Home for Juvenile Delinquent Boys " . He takes in boys that society can't manage , and operates under the motto : " There is No Bad Boy . " Spencer Tracy and Mickey Rooney star as Priest and head Bad Boy . I was interested in seeing two great stars , Mr . Tracy and Mr . Rooney , work together . They don't . Norman Taurog directs . Rooney fails from going over-the-top , and Tracy sometimes look bored . They each have some moments . You can't fault Rooney for playing a part with the enthusiasm of " Strike Up the Band ! " when they give him scenes like the " black face " bit in " Boys Town " . Tracy doesn't get to wear any " black face " , so he comes off better . It looks like the only Black face in " Boys Town " is the one painted on " Whitey " . I like the " candy scenes " scenes . I liked the tribute to FDR by Tracy and Gene Reynolds ( as " Tony " ) . I didn't think the film was as good as its " message " ; the ingredients put in to the film do not mix well . It doesn't HAVE to be , but it isn't very realistic , either . A too sentimental presentation ( of a worthy message ) with some famous performances . Boys Town ( 1938 ) Norman Taurog - Spencer Tracy , Mickey Rooney , Gene Reynolds
Whip It	After Mary Pickford ( as Marget MacTavish ) loses her father at sea , she becomes " The Pride of the Clan " ; this makes Ms . Pickford the leader of her Scottish island community . For most young women , the responsibility would prove too daunting ; but , the spunky Pickford perseveres . She whips the town into shape . Pickford finds romance with Matt Moore ( as Jamie Campbell ) ; but , a secret from his past threatens their future . This was the lesser of the collaborations between Pickford and director Maurice Tourneur . The perpetually stormy coastline photography is a strength , with Marblehead , Massachusetts doubling for Scotland . John van den Broek and Lucien N . Andriot handled the camera . Despite the promising storyline , Pickford's role as leader of her community disappoints . She appears to be a divine link between the people and God . When the Church needs parishioners , Pickford runs around town cracking her father's whip , which frightens worshipers into their pews .
San Franciscan Trolls	Teen idol Noah Hathaway ( as Harry Potter Jr . ) moves into a San Francisco apartment , with his family . Right away , little sister Jenny Beck ( as Wendy Potter ) follows a bouncing ball into the building's dank basement . There , she sings " Pease Porridge Hot " , and gets possessed by " Troll " . Young Beck and Phil Fondacaro ( as Torok ) set out to turn the apartment into a fairyland for trolls . Mr . Hathaway sees through little sister's personality switch ; but , parents Michael Moriarty and Shelley Hack don't believe bratty Beck is a demon . So , Hathaway turns to gracefully aging witch June Lockhart ( as Eunice St . Clair ) for help . Julia Louis-Dreyfus ( as Jeanette ) makes a sexy debut , alongside off-screen partner Brad Hall ( as William ) . Hathaway and Ms . Lockhart are great assets ; but , the film's story is much more nonsensical and uninteresting than fantastical and intriguing . Troll ( 1986 ) John Carl Buechler - Noah Hathaway , Phil Fondacaro , June Lockhart
Medicine Show People	Roy Rogers , George " Gabby " Hayes , and Sally Payne are members of " Professor Blackstone's Medicine Show " . Their offering of tuneful entertainment and elixir receives a poor reception in the town of Deadwood , led by Bad Man Hal Taliaferro ( as Ripper ) . They decide to stick around and extinguish the " Bad Man of Deadwood " and his wicked gang . The Rogers / Hayes / Payne trio ( plus cute pet ) are a treat as " Medicine " show people . This is an above average , concise Rogers western . Carol Adams ( as reporter Linda Barrett ) is a good romantic interest for Mr . Rogers ; though , they don't flirt enough . It's great to see silent star Monte Blue and weasely Jay Novello among the fine supporting players . It's all lower cost level movie stuff , but ever so pleasant . Bad Man of Deadwood ( 1941 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Carol Adams
A Bird in the Hand Is Worth Two in the Bush	Ricardo Cortez plays playboy detective Sam Spade , in this first version of novelist Dashiell Hammett's " The Maltese Falcon " . Bebe Daniels ( as Ruth Wonderly ) is the femme fatale with whom he becomes involved , along with Dudley Digges ( as Gutman ) and Otto Matieson ( as Dr . Cairo ) ; for various reasons , they all seek " The Maltese Falcon " . It's an exceptionally rare piece ! The production " look " of this early " talkie " is nowhere near as good as " The Maltese Falcon " ( 1941 ) , which was directed by John Huston , and starred Humphrey Bogart . However , this 1931 version is more enjoyable that you'd expect ; it is especially recommended as a viewing addendum to its better known re-make ( s ) . Mr . Cortez and Ms . Daniels liven things up with some sexual play ; this was so subdued in the 1941 version , it was almost sexless . Mr . Matieson and Una Merkel ( as secretary Effie ) are the best supporting performers . In this version , the characters ' actions make more sense . There are a few noticeable story differences ; for example , this one ends quite differently . . .
" The Virginian " is For Pardners	Dustin Farnum is " The Virginian " , a cow-puncher who arrives to settle in Bear Creek , Wyoming ; where , he meets , and falls in " lov " ( sic ) with newly arrived schoolteacher Winifred Kingston ( as Molly Wood ) . His life is complicated when his best friend Jack W . Johnston ( as Steve ) gets involved with town gangster William ' Billy ' Elmer ( as Trampas ) . The part , early on , with Mr . Farnum and Hosea Steelman ( as Lin McLean ) exchanging guests ' babies while they dance and drink whiskey , is amusing . There are some interestingly set-up outdoor shots from director Cecil B . DeMille . The story is sometimes odd ; for example , Mr . Johnston takes up with Mr . Elmer , it's stated , as Farnum " neglects " him to be with Ms . Kingston . Later , Johnston writes something on a newspaper - " good by ( unreadable ) i couldn't speak to you without ( unreadable ) the baby Steve " . I watched it with my finger on still , and still couldn't figure it out . Among the featured players . Johnston delivered the best performance . Farnum and Kingston , who had just co-starred in " The Squaw Man " ( 1914 ) , would later marry . The Virginian ( / 14 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Dustin Farnum , Winifred Kingston , Jack W . Johnston
It's All Greek to Sea	Robert Wagner ( as Tony Petrakis ) and Terry Moore ( as Gwyneth Rhys ) are an attractive couple ; and , the color cinematography is lovely in " Beneath the 12-Mile Reef " . Gilbert Roland ( as Mike Petrakis ) heads up an entertaining supporting cast . Mr . Wagner's hair is darkened to appear more Greek ( but his on-screen sister's locks are spared ) . Ms . Moore is fetching . Still , Edward Cronjager ( photographer ) and Bernard Herrmann ( musician ) are director Robert Webb's most valuable players . The film helped put Wagner on the map ; he won a " Photoplay Gold Medal " as filmdom's best new actor ; moreover , he and Moore easily made Martin Quigley's Annual Top 10 " Stars of Tomorrow " list , for 1953 . Beneath the 12-Mile Reef ( 1953 ) Robert D . Webb - Robert Wagner , Terry Moore , Gilbert Roland
PickFair	Mary Pickford ( as Katherine ) and Douglas Fairbanks ( as Petruchio ) star in Sam Taylor's abridged version of William Shakespeare's " The Taming of the Shrew " . Ms . Pickford is best during the well-photographed Karl Struss storm , and post-storm , scenes ; and , Mr . Fairbanks give the best overall performance in the picture . Pickford improves much upon her previous " Coquette " ; and , Fairbanks proves himself a fine " talking " film actor . While relatively well-received , at the time of release , this " Shrew " fell considerably shy of being highly regarded . Still , for what it is , it's more enjoyable than embarrassing . Certainly , it should appeal to admirers of Pickford and Fairbanks . The Taming of the Shrew ( / 29 ) Sam Taylor - Mary Pickford , Douglas Fairbanks , Edwin Maxwell
" A Star is Born " with love and music , but no liquor .	Betty Hutton ( as Pearl White ) works in a clothing factory ; she sings to her co-workers , and dreams of stardom . When famed stage actress Constance Collier ( as Julia Gibbs ) comes in for a costume , Ms . Hutton reveals she is a fan . Since Ms . Collier doesn't have the $98 for an ordered garment , Hutton offers to deliver it to the troupe , and retrieve payment . There , Hutton receives no $98 ( nobody has the money ) ; instead , she is invited to audition for " The Farrington Players " a Shakespearian troupe . Although she can't act , handsome John Lund ( as Michael " Mike " Farrington ) hires her . Of course , they fall in love . After Hutton ruins one too many plays , she leaves " The Farrington Players " , and gets a job working for William Demarest ( as George " Mac " McGuire ) in the fledging motion picture industry . At " Artcraft Pictures " , Hutton becomes a big star , in movie serials like " The Perils of Pauline " . BUT , stardom has its pitfalls ? This is a very glossed over version of silent film actress Pearl White's life . Hutton plays well in the re-created " silent " scenes ; though neither she nor the script offer any real characterization . Billy De Wolfe ( as Timmy Thompson ) is good in a supporting role ; he inexplicably teaches her how to " project " after her very successful stage audition ( again , it's the script ) . De Wolfe would have made a nice rival for Hutton's affections . Collier steals the show , and she gets to say , " Greetings , fellow thespians ! " An early song , " The Sewing Machine " , is performed poorly by Hutton - - you would have the impression she can't act or sing ! However , she sings and performs the additional songs well . " Rumble , Rumble , Rumble " is the musical highlight . If you think you've heard " The Sewing Machine " somewhere , it's really just a re-make of " McNamara's Band " , which was a big hit for Bing Crosby when this movie was being made . Possibly , the filmmakers liked it , and ordered up a copy . If you're watching for original silent screen actor appearances , like William Farnum , don't blink .
The Strange Case of Dr . Suzuki and Mr . Stanford	" An American reporter traveling in Japan stops to meet and interview a reclusive Japanese scientist at his mountain laboratory . The scientist greets the curious newsman and , after getting to know him , concludes the reporter is the perfect test subject for his latest experiment . After injecting the reporter against his will , the scientist discovers his serum changes the man into a . . . " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Don't join " The Manster " in progress , as its opening scenes are very striking . The erotic sight of two young Japanese women bathing is interrupted as mad scientist Tetsu Nakamura ( as Robert Suzuki ) must immediately deal with his violent brother ( " An experiment that didn't work out " ) , while his wife ( another " experiment that didn't work out " ) screams in her cage ? Mr . Nakamura takes charge of the situation by killing his brother ; then , Peter Dyneley ( as Larry Stanford ) conveniently shows up ; a self-described " brilliant and highly underpaid foreign correspondent " , Mr . Dyneley wants to interview Nakamura about his research on " the secrets of evolution " . Nakamura is a very perceptive mad scientist ; he senses Dyneley is a sex-stared alcoholic , who lies about his age . Dyneley laps up Nakamura's offer of booze and flooze . With some re-writes and re-takes , George Breakston ( who directed " Andy Hardy " ) might have had a genuine classic . Still , " The Manster " is some good fun . The Manster ( 1962 ) George Breakston - Peter Dyneley , Tetsu Nakamura , Jane Hylton
Roman Polanski Goes to Hell with Johnny Depp	After being hired by Frank Langella ( as Boris Balkan ) , " Johnny Depp unlocks the gates to hell , in Roman Polanski's newest thriller . Depp stars as Dean Corso , an unscrupulous rare-book dealer who is hired to locate the remaining copies of ' The Nine Gates of the Shadow Kingdom , ' a demonic manuscript that can summon the Devil . Corso becomes embroiled in a conspiracy involving murder , theft , and satanic ritual ; and , ultimately finds himself confronting the devil incarnate , " according to official synopsis . In order to look old , bookish Depp occasionally has a chalk-like substance added to his temples . He treats rare old books indelicately , and sometimes blows tobacco smoke on them . Despite these early warnings , " The Ninth Gate " becomes intriguing , as Depp's character unfolds the mysteries of three Satanic volumes , and their differing illustrations . Emmanuelle Seigner and Lena Olin are obviously bad news , but Depp messes with them anyway . The major film's main weakness in that it doesn't go anywhere with its promising storyline ; and , most importantly , it lacks a satisfactorily ending . You might even call it incoherent ( see for yourself , if you dare ) . Darius Khondji's cinematography , and wheelchair-bound devil worshiper Barbara Jefford ( as Baroness Kessler ) are strengths . The Ninth Gate ( / 99 ) Roman Polanski - Johnny Depp , Emmanuelle Seigner , Barbara Jefford
Back in the Saddle	After driving some errant Native American Indians away from a wagon train , Reese ( Neville Brand ) , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Joe ( William Smith ) want a break ; and , Reese has a toothache . But , the concerned ladies of Laredo report the disappearance of British schoolmaster Richard Haydn ( as Jonathan Pringle ) , who was to have arrived from London . Despite his aching tooth , Reese is sent , by Capt . Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) out to find the wayward Mr . Haydn . The going gets tough when an old foe , Ken Lynch ( as Anson Jones ) , recognizes Reese , and seeks revenge for a past prison term . After several lackluster episodes , " Laredo " gets back in the saddle . This episode has good direction ( Paul Stanley ) , writing ( Edward J . Lasko ) , and photography ( William Margulies ) . The opening action is taken from prior adventures ( the flaming arrow hitting the wagon train is a dead giveaway ) ; but , the stock footage , new location , and set material blend very well . Mr . Brand's toothy " Reese " is at his most memorable ; and , though underutilized , the series co-stars all appear - and to good effect . Hank Patterson ( Fred Ziffel of " Green Acres " ) , and Lynch's mob ( Len Lesser , Paul Mantee , Erik Holland ) lead a strong supporting cast . Laredo - A Very Small Assignment ( / 66 ) Paul Stanley - Neville Brand , Richard Haydn , Ken Lynch
Vanity , Thy Name Is Woman ?	Attorney Frank Morgan ( as Paul Held ) is called upon to defend a friend , doctor Paul Lukas ( as Walter Bernsdorf ) , who has just shot his wife ) to death . After listening to Mr . Lukas describe how he discovered his wife was having an affair , Mr . Morgan sees similar behavior in his own beautiful young wife , Nancy Carroll ( as Maria Held ) . " All men suspect their wives , " Morgan says . So , secretly , Morgan follows Ms . Carroll to her lover's arms . Then , Morgan decides to clear his client , and use his closing argument as a rationale for murdering his own unfaithful wife . . . " The Kiss Before the Mirror " is a strange , almost offensive , and downright dumb story ; but , it's done with a fine director ( James Whale ) and an interesting cast . Jean Dixon ( as Hilda ) almost saves it , with her pointed courtroom comment to Morgan . Donald Cook , Walter Pidgeon , and Gloria Stuart are good-looking lovers . From now on , viewers , you must carefully watch how women put on their make-up - it could help you decide whether or not to shoot them ( just kidding ) . The Kiss Before the Mirror ( / 33 ) James Whale - Frank Morgan , Nancy Carroll , Paul Lukas
Behind Blue Eyes	This film was unjustly nicknamed " I Was a Teenage Jesus " , as star Jeffrey Hunter neither was , nor does he look , like a " teenager " . Rather , his appearance quite matches the idealized " Jesus " very much accepted by many Christians . Actually , Mr . Hunter is , overall , the correct age to be portraying Jesus Christ ; although he is perhaps , a little too " hunky " looking . H . B . Warner , who starred in Cecil B . DeMille's original " King of Kings " was far too old . Admittedly , Mr . Warner was , with the help of a softening lens , more successful essaying the role than Hunter . The angling direction , by Nicholas Ray is interesting , if uninspiring . Miklos Rozsa's music is lovely , contributing greatly to the film's reverence . There are some nice supporting performances ; I enjoyed , for example , Hurd Hatfield's " Pilate " ? and some of the others were amusing , at least . " King of Kings " has a big , colorful look - - but , it's one of the duller entries in the Biblical epic genre . It's a handsome production , but it might take a miracle for me to sit through " King of Kings " again . King of Kings ( 1961 ) Nicholas Ray - Jeffrey Hunter , Hurd Hatfield , Robert Ryan
The Family Beast of Burden	Lois Wilson ( as Lulu ) is the spinsterish member of the Deacon family : " The family beast of burden , whose timid soul has failed to break the bonds of family servitude . " Her brother-in-law is patriarchal Theodore Roberts ( as Dwight Deacon ) ; running the house with an iron fist , he is both a dentist and a Justice of the Peace . As the latter , he accidentally marries Ms . Wilson to his visiting brother Clarence Burton ( as Ninian Deacon ) while they are out for dinner . Schoolteacher Milton Sills ( as Neil Cornish ) is also interested in Wilson ; though , curiously , nobody seems to notice this for the longest time . Ethel Wales tries , unsuccessfully , to look old enough to play the family grandmother . Lois Wilson's fine acting ability is clearly evident ; at different times , she is like both Lillian Gish and Bette Davis - see , for example the scene where she " lets her hair down " upon meeting Mr . Burton ( Gish ) , and her confrontation , finally , with Mr . Roberts ( Davis ) . The story is ambitious : " Lulu Bett " and the other members of the Deacon household are clearly being controlled by the " Master " Deacon ; and , " Lulu " is practically a slave . Yet , the various characters are shells of something larger - and their shells are not filled with enough characterization , background , or motivation to make this movie really work . Notable as directed by Cecil's brother William deMille . Miss Lulu Bett ( 1921 ) William C . de Mille - Lois Wilson , Theodore Roberts , Milton Sills
Moving Forward	Years ago , Norma Talmadge ( as Grace Briggs ) and her crooked partner Eugene Palette ( as Jimmy Briggs ) helped locksmith and gang leader Ralph Lewis ( as John Higgins ) commit burglaries . After falling in love , Ms . Talmadge and Mr . Lewis married . Later , Lewis was arrested , and went to prison for his crimes . Upon release , he and Talmadge decide to make amends . After " Going Straight " , they change their name to " Remington " , made babies , and lead a happy , prosperous life . Presently , while Talmadge and Lewis remorsefully recall their life of crime , Mr . Palette remains crooked to the bone . He hooks up with little Georgie Stone ( as Jimmy ) , a helpless waif and criminal adjunct . When Palette re-encounters his now prosperous pal , he blackmails Lewis by threatening to reveal wife Talmadge's participation in their past crimes . Since Talmadge was never caught , she would ( presumably ) have to serve some years in prison . Eventually , Palette's demands increase . . . Going Straight ( / 16 ) Chester & Sidney Franklin - Norma Talmadge , Eugene Palette , Georgie Stone
Southern Hospitality with Julie Harris	The outlaw " Jamison Gang " , led by Donnelly Rhodes ( as Bob ) , sends Bruce Dern ( as Durkee ) to scout out for Laredo's Rangers . They rightly fear the Rangers will interfere with their plans to pick up a wealth of silver , buried under a farm . Instead of scouting , Mr . Dern turns informer . Rangers Reese ( Neville Brand ) , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Joe ( William Smith ) are sent out , by Parmalee ( Philip Carey ) , to confront the Jamison Gang . Along the way , the meet widow Julie Harris ( as Annamay ) , who also wants to claim the silver-enhanced farm ? Ms . Harris is a charming guest star , working very well with Mr . Brand ; in fact , the entire guest cast is exceptional . This episode , which aired fourth in the first season , should have been the series premiere . It features an abundance of the series ' hallmarks : humor and action . And , the characterization either lacking or ill-chosen in earlier episodes begins to form . Reese is noted to have " led on " two women , with undelivered promises of marriage ; this figures , later , into the plot , and conveys the " rule " about the Rangers remaining single . The most interesting bit of characterization occurs when , early in the episode , Chad's lady-killing reputation is confirmed ; skirting the network censors , Brown is discreetly shown being interrupted during a sexual encounter . Laredo - Rendezvous at Arillo ( / 65 ) Harvey Hart - Neville Brand , Julie Harris , Peter Brown
Piercing the Iron Curtain	Knife-wielding seaman Christopher Jones ( as Leiser ) is recruited , by British spies , to sneak through the Iron Curtain , in Germany ; there , he is to confirm suspicions the East German Communist are building missiles . Mr . Jones ' mission is , at first , complimented by , but later , compromised by the urge to mate ; especially after he encounters delicious Pia Degermark ( as Anna ) . Writer / director Frank Pierson's adaptation of John Le Carré's Cold War novel is , in the end , disappointing ; but , it has some strengths . Shirt-shedding Jones ' Polish-French-English dubbing is very well done . Mr . Pierson's direction holds interest . Jones and Ms . Degermark are very beautiful ; unfortunately , both would have short-lived starring careers . Another promising young performer , Anthony Hopkins ( as Avery ) , makes a good impression ; and , veterans Ralph Richardson and Paul Rogers give the picture some gravitas . The Looking Glass War ( 1969 ) Frank Pierson - Christopher Jones , Anthony Hopkins , Pia Degermark
The Bowery Boys Meet The Beatles	In a striking opening sequence , Leo Gorcey ( as Slip Mahoney ) , Huntz Hall ( as Horace Debussy " Sach " Jones ) , William " Billy " Benedict ( as Whitey ) , Buddy Gorman ( as Butch ) , and David Gorcey ( as Chuck ) appear in menacing plastic masks , at the " Bowling Green Van & Storage Company " . The police arrive on the scene , and arrest the gang of five for robbing the place - but , they didn't commit the crime . Leader Gorcey and company claim they are celebrating Halloween ( in April ) . To bail out " The Bowery Boys " , Bernard Gorcey ( as Louie Dumbrowsky ) puts up his " Sweet Shop " as collateral ; and , lawyer pal Gabriel Dell ( as Gabriel " Gabe " Moreno ) arrives to defend his old friends . Awaiting trial , Mr . Benedict receives information on the real robbers via his " short wave " radio . Acting on Benedict's lead , Gorcey and Mr . Hall plead " guilty " as charged , so they can investigate the case inside the " state pen " . Hall's " Triple Trouble " performance is especially good . And , there are a great bunch of supporting crooks to watch out for - George Chandler ( as Squirrelly Davis ) , Pat Collins ( as Bat Armstrong ) , Paul Dubov ( as Pretty Boy Gleason ) , and Joe Turkel ( as Benny the Blood ) . Also note , " Bowery Boy " Benedict gets a little more screen time than he's usually allotted . Unfortunately , the story really isn't very interesting . Hall ( " I'll have a ham on rye " ) and Gorcey ( " The proper alliteration is you or me " ) have a courtroom scene which certainly suggests this film may have been seen by Beatles in Liverpool , England . Lennon and McCartney were admirers of Gorcey and Hall - and , in this film , a common sense of humor shows . See if you can identify moments resembling " Magical Mystery Tour " and " Band on the Run " , herein . Later , Hall appeared on The Beatles ' " Sgt . Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band " album collage ( Gorcey was removed after demanding a fee ) . Triple Trouble ( / 50 ) Jean Yarbrough - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , William " Billy " Benedict
Buster Keaton and " Captain Marvel Adventures "	Donna believes , " Christmas should be warm and friendly and peaceful . " Instead , she finds it to be cool , contentious , and chaotic . The recipients of her fruitcakes are unable to hide their disappointment , and Donna has to buy a last minute gift for Alex . Moreover , Mary won't shop until she's sure she'll get a gift in return , and Jeff is keeping a " profit-and-loss ledger " for the year . Donna wonders what happened to the Christmas spirit of giving . She finds answers when she gets to know the generous janitor at the Hilldale Hospital - indeed , very special guest star Buster Keaton ( as Charlie ) . This episode must have endeared Donna and her television family to millions of viewers . It isn't terribly well done , but it isn't terrible . The appearance of Mr . Keaton is a treat . And , the hospital children are very sweet . In their hospital beds , they read a very rare edition of " Captain Marvel Adventures " - the cover is visible , but it doesn't match any cover I could find , web-surfing . Since the comic book ended publication in 1953 , it's strange to see a decent copy last through ( at least ) five years in a children's hospital ( or , TV prop room ) . A Very Merry Christmas ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Buster Keaton , Carl Betz
Shelley Fabares wants Jimmy Hawkins	Donna ( Donna Reed ) realizes daughter Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) has a teenage crush , after she forlornly washes the same dish five times . Indeed , Mary wants to go to the " Varsity Prom " with handsome Jimmy Hawkins ( as George Haskell ) , the basketball star who works in the school library . But , Mary thinks she has " all the sex appeal of a wet mop . " Donna thinks Mary should be " attractive and desirable . " Father Alex ( Carl Betz ) worries about the " desirable " part , and Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) thinks his sister's yen for men is dumb . Donna tries to help Mary out , but young Haskell develops a crush on mother Donna , instead ? The plot is a sitcom staple . No wonder Mr . Hawkins falls for Donna ( a former nurse ) ; she is attractive even when she tries to dress " down " as a haggard housewife . Hawkins and Ms . Fabares are a very cute couple . And , it's easy to see why Hawkins was frequently asked back on " The Donna Reed Show " . Hawkins was Reed's son in " It's a Wonderful Life " ( 1946 ) . Later , he had parts in two of the three movies Fabares did with Elvis Presley , " Girl Happy " ( 1965 ) and " Spinout " ( 1966 ) . Donna's advice to Mary was good , " Build him up and laugh at his jokes . " Change Partners and Dance ( / 58 ) James V . Kern - Donna Reed , Jimmy Hawkins , Shelley Fabares
Violence with Big Blue Eyes	After a prison stint , hoodlum James Dean ( as Joe " Joey " Harris ) hopes to pick up where he left off , with wife Naomi Riordan ( as Barbie Andrews Harris ) , and pursue a career in auto mechanics . When Mr . Dean discovers his wife has left New York City , he goes to ask a mutual friend , delicatessen proprietor Rudolph Weiss ( as Poppa Golden ) , where Ms . Riordan might have gone . Dean's tendency for violence surfaces , and he beats the old man up , for advising Riordan to leave town . Dean , also a wife abuser , returns home to father Ted Osborn ( as Fred Harris ) ; happily , he discovers this is where Riordan is living . His wife and father eventually accept Dean declaration he is abandoning his criminal ways . Then , investigator Robert F . Simon ( as Lieutenant Case ) arrives ; unfortunately , Dean's beating victim may die ? This is a disappointing TV-movie drama , due to the expectations raised by the fact that it was written by Rod Serling , and stars James Dean . The story wastes a good deal by having Dean commit his crime at the onset . This makes Dean's character initially unlikable , and unlikely to be redeemed ; and , gives the viewer no chance to evaluate his later lying about the incident . Still , Dean does a great job with the material . He is especially effective in the " nostalgia " scene , hopelessly reminiscing about his past , and chewing his shirt collar nervously over the future . Dean is exceptional , putting great effort in creating the " poet and gangster " character called for in the script . " A Long Time Till Dawn " is , otherwise , rather ordinary . A Long Time Till Dawn ( / 53 ) Richard Dunlap - James Dean , Naomi Riordan , Ted Osborn
Eve Arden Brings Culture to Laredo	After the " Slaughter Gang " robs a bank in San Sabo , the Rangers capture the bandits , and return their booty to the local bank . There , they meet culture-peddling Eve Arden ( as Miss Em ) , who is refused for a bank loan . Ms . Arden impresses Reese ( Neville Brand ) with her flattery and ladylike manner . Reese , Chad ( Peter Brown ) , and Joe ( William Smith ) devise a plan to help Arden sell tickets to her lecture on culture . To sell tickets , a " hot tamale " from the " Silver Slipper " ( Rita D'Amico as " Carlotta " ) is added to the program . Arden lives this episode up considerably ; and , her character's comic duplicity fits the show like a glove . The story , however , doesn't really rise above that of very ordinary episodic television . At the time , Arden's was a rare and welcome screen appearance . Veterans Myron Healey ( as Sam Bolt ) and Lyle Talbot ( as the Sheriff ) are other notable additions to the " Laredo " guest cast . Lardeo - Which Way Did They Go ? ( / 65 ) Leon Benson - Eve Arden , Neville Brand , Peter Brown
Sometimes Too Subtle & Sometimes Too Obvious	The story is familiar - Oscar Wilde's Dorian Gray wishes his painting would grow old whilst he remain young . The sets , direction , and photography are beautiful . Through no fault of their own , the actors ' characters falter - for example ; Angela Lansbury is strikingly beautiful and terrific , but annoyingly sings " Goodbye Little Yellow Bird " ( foreshadowing ? ) , and Hurd Hatfield grows into the role , but annoyingly stabs a table ( more foreshadowing ? ) . Mr . Hatfield ends up impressing , but the film's early going makes it difficult . George Sanders is delicious , as usual . More often than not , the script is way too subtle . Why couldn't the frequent narration help explain things more mysterious , instead of things more obvious ? AND , the switching from " black and white " to " color " is a gimmick that almost worked the first time . The Picture of Dorian Gray ( 1945 ) Albert Lewin - Hurd Hatfield , George Sanders , Donna Reed
Beauty and the Biograph Girl	Florence Lawrence ( as Mabel Jarrett ) lives happily with her parents James Kirkwood and Flora Finch ; while waiting for her suitor Arthur V . Johnson ( as Tom Hearne ) ' s inevitable proposal of marriage . Another member of the household is Mary Pickford ( as Winnie ) , who is not only Ms . Lawrence's cousin , but also her best friend . Lawrence's life is torn asunder when she receives a burn , then scar , on her face , during an electrical accident . She perceives a difference in suitor Johnson's attentions , after he sees her scarred face . Most D . W . Griffith films from the period are notable for their technical innovations ; " The Way of Man " is more notable for the indelible performances Griffith elicits . Lawrence , aka " The Biograph Girl " , is especially memorable in her climactic rocky scene . Johnson is likewise convincing ; he is torn between his love for the scarred Lawrence , and the suddenly more lovely Ms . Pickford . Together , Lawrence and Johnson are an exciting on-screen team . Note how , in an early scene , Johnson kisses and strokes the very part of Lawrence's face which will later be scarred ; it's a Griffith touch that adds a subtle magic to the overall film . Despite its strengths , you have to wonder about " The Way of Man " regarding beauty as depicted in this film . Lawrence's burn does not seriously alter her looks , and Johnson obviously still has feelings for her - - she knows this , and still decides makes her decision - - perhaps , she is slightly crazed . The ending is somewhat refreshingly unexpected , though sudden ( the film becomes more rushed during the later playing time ) .
God on the Radio	" You know , " writer George Sumner Albee said , " wouldn't it be something if God would come on the radio and give people such a bad scare they'd wake up and behave themselves ! " That quote appeared in MGM president Dore Schary's book " Case History of a Movie " , which elevated " The Next Voice You Hear ? " far above its station . It also places the " germ " of the story in the days of radio , when the magical medium would be natural place for God to speak to " Joe Smith , American " . So , during the time it was written and filmed , this story must have seemed far less ludicrous . The story focuses on the Smith family : James Whitmore ( as Joe ) , Nancy Davis ( as Mary ) , and Gary Gray ( as Johnny ) . The names " Joseph " and " Mary " have Biblical implications , of course ; and , in the film , " Mary " is pregnant . These facts , like the " voice of God " itself , never progress past the point of mildly intriguing , however . The Smith family proves to be an underwhelming choice to follow , through God's supposed manifestation . Interestingly , the filmmakers combine all the world's Gods into one ; with the implication being that Jews , Muslims , and others hear a similar message . A couple of supporting performers are nice , but Ms . Davis ( later known as Nancy Reagan ) is the best thing in the film . Though a surprisingly thin pregnant woman , she still endeavors to look like she's carrying a child ; and , Davis gives the most realistic performance . She helps the other performers look believable , too , just by appearing on screen with them . For example , it looks like she covers for young Gray , when he almost knocks over a table . And , after a silly " drunk scene " , ending with Mr . Whitmore walking a straight line into EVERY stool on his way out of a bar , Davis ' presence dampens the mediocrity . Davis is genuine in her manner and looks ; she obviously worked on the character , with direction from William A . Wellman . Mr . Wellman keeps it interesting , for the most part ; and , the film provokes some thought . Finally , many at MGM would agree with the observation that God's voice , if heard , would likely sound like Lionel Barrymore ! The Next Voice You Hear ? ( 1950 ) William A . Wellman - James Whitmore , Nancy Davis , Gary Gray
Ooo , What a Lucky Man He Was	In early life scenes , Jesse James ( as Young George Jung ) is an ordinary , likable kid . He has a really nice , but unsuccessful in business , father ( Ray Liotta as Fred Jung ) . He has a hellish , selfish mother ( Rachel Griffiths as Ermine Jung ) . He has an overweight friend ( Ethan Suplee as " Tuna " ) . In 1968 , he has grown into Johnny Depp . Mr . Depp and pal " Tuna " move to California . They meet women on the beach , and get stoned . Depp also meets Paul Reubens ( as Derek Foreal ) , who turns him on to selling pot . Depp becomes a HUGE drug dealer . This movie had me going until the switch to California . I was distracted by Depp's different hairstyles . By the 1970s , Depp looked older than his mother . The way people age , and change hairstyles is screwy ; so , is the soundtrack song selection order . Depp's characterization is interesting , at least ; he has my respect for taking chances with his movie roles . Penelope Cruz ( as Mirtha ) lifts things considerably when she appears , but it's a long , long wait . For a film so effective in its " based on a true story " opening , I was surprised so few of the cast seemed to act like they took drugs . Depp performed well , however ; with his scenes hitting bottom , and recovering , being impressive ( see the beating and childbirth scenes ) . Emma Roberts performs very well as the daughter Kristina ; her scenes with Depp make you care about the character . Director Ted Demme was promising , but died shortly after this film . . . Blow ( 2001 ) Ted Demme - Johnny Depp , Penélope Cruz , Paul Reubens
Onward Christian Soldier	Drunken hillbilly Gary Cooper ( as Alvin C . York ) is the sharpest shooter in his Tennessee town , but he doesn't want to fight , after World War I breaks out . With bushy-eyebrowed parson Walter Brennan ( as Rosier Pile ) as a sponsor , Mr . Cooper seeks to become a " conscientious objector " . Older man Cooper has a hankerin ' for nubile young Joan Leslie ( as Gracie Williams ) ; he wants to buy some land and settle down with her , but is drafted . In the United States Army , a sobered and saved Cooper is reluctant to kill nasty Germans , due to his strong Christian beliefs . Can " Uncle Sam " make Cooper a real warrior ? Proximity resulted in this film being elevated far above its ration . When Cooper and his hound dog go to a mountaintop , God helps him reconcile Christianity and killing . At least , Cooper's performance is earnest . Staid Margaret Wycherly ( as Mother York ) , Dickie Moore ( as George York ) , and June Lockhart ( as Rosie York ) keep the home fires burning . She has relatively little to do , but lovely Ms . Lockhart essays the film's most natural performance . Expressive George Tobias ( as Pusher Ross ) , later " Abner Kravitz " on TV's " Bewitched " , provides " comic relief " during wartime . Shucks . Sergeant York ( 1941 ) Howard Hawks - Gary Cooper , Joan Leslie , Walter Brennan
The Roger Horror Picture Show ?	This ends with one very strange party ! I just watched it , and I don't remember the events preceding the party - Vincent Price is the Satanic host . He makes people act like pigs and other animals . A man in a gorilla suit provides the most gruesome moment . Ex-Beatle bird Jane Asher and David Weston are the young couple in love . This film seems to be making a directorial ( Roger Corman ) statement about something over and above an Edgar Allen Poe story , and I'm not sure what it is supposed to mean . Very colorful and symbolic nothingness is how I would describe . It's almost like you need some written directions . It reminded be of Fellini , Bergman , and The Rock Horror Picture Show ( but not as interesting ) . The Masque of the Red Death ( 1964 ) Roger Corman - Vincent Price , Jane Asher , David Weston
Never Gve a Sucker an Even Break	From a modern prospective , this is a most underwhelming film . Carol Dempster ( as Sally ) would seem , athleticism being one of her strengths , to be a natural choice to play a circus performer ; she is , however , mostly unremarkable . W . C . Fields ( as Professor McGargle ) is more graceful ; however , without his distinctive voice , he is somewhat disappointing . And , Alfred Lunt ( as Peyton Lennox ) , known for his brilliant stage presence , is difficult to appreciate . Of the three , Mr . Fields is the most watchable . The breathtaking beauty of earlier D . W . Griffith-directed films is noticeably absent . While some of the shots are lovely , nothing equals the artfulness evident throughout many past Griffith efforts . " Sally of the Sawdust " is beautifully preserved ( if only all Griffith prints were as well preserved ) ; and , it is an enjoyable comedy ( certainly more so in 1925 ) . It was adapted from Dorothy Donnelly's popular play " Poppy " ( 1923 ) , with Madge Kennedy and W . C . Fields . It was re-filmed as " Poppy " ( 1936 ) , with Rochelle Hudson and W . C . Fields . Norma Talmadge's popular film was an altogether different " Poppy " ( 1917 ) , and did not co-star W . C . Fields . Sally of the Sawdust ( 1925 ) D . W . Griffith - Carol Dempster , W . C . Fields , Alfred Lunt
Jeff's Finesse	Donna ( Donna Reed ) and Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) organize items the Stone family plans to donate to a charity auction . To their surprise , Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) gives up a two-week old toy rocket . Jeff is more interested in football , now , and decides to " use psychology " to get a new uniform from " pushover " mom . But , Alex ( Carl Betz ) fears they are spoiling the lad , and tells Jeff he must earn the money by working . With the boys ' football team due to be photographed for the local newspaper , Donna arranges for Jeff to " win " the uniform at the auction , with humorous results . This , and the upcoming " Change Partners and Dance " episode show , early on , why " The Donna Reed Show " was so successful . The adults were a known commodity , but children are more of a wild card . Together , " The Football Uniform " and " Change Partners and Dance " show casting Paul Peterson and Shelley Fabares as the Stone children was going to work like a charm . This episode features Peterson , and the other Fabares - and , they've got the ticket . The Football Uniform ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Paul Peterson , Donna Reed , Shelley Fabares
From Pigtails to Curls	In a New Jersey orphanage , pigtailed Marion Davies ( as Mamie Smith ) causes a slapstick ruckus ; consequently , she is brutally abused . Then , Ms . Davies ' luck changes ; and , she is sent to the loving home of motherly Hedda Hopper ( as Edith Caldwell ) . Ms . Hopper's husband is away , on an extended trip to Mexico . So , Davies helps raise Hopper's baby into cute young Jack Huff ( as Alexander " Zander " P . Caldwell Jr . ) . The years are kind to Davies , who grows from freckles and pigtails to beautiful complexion and curls . When Hopper passes away , Davies must fulfill a promise to find Huff's father , but the wicked orphanage from her past declares custody . Davies takes the boy , and sets off to meet adventure , danger , and Harrison Ford . The odd title " Zander the Great " refers to the Greek leader Alexander the Great ; to wit , Davies shortens little Alexander's name to Zander because , " Alexander is such a big name for a weenie baby . " Davies spends the much of the picture made-up like Mary Pickford ( a road taken by many , to be fair ) . The comedy and drama don't mix very well ; as usual , Davies is better with the former . Finally , the movie becomes a western . Director George Hill and the MGM team do some nice work ; especially , the beginning scenes with Davies , and the ending expiration scenes featuring George Siegmann ( as Black Bart ) . The sexual prowess of rabbits is a tiresome source of amusement . This was a big 1923 Broadway success for Alice Brady .
The Truth About Lying	Donna ( Donna Reed ) receives an unexpected call from Charles Herbert ( as David Barker ) , who enjoyed spending his Thanksgiving with the Stones ( see Episode # 10 , " Guest in the House " ) . " That problem child , " as Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) describes him , makes up a story about being lonely on his birthday . Of course , Donna arranges for Alex ( Carl Betz ) to pick the boy up , for birthday celebration with the Stones . After Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) gets in trouble for lying ( he shot his " air rifle " haphazardly ) , young Herbert hears Mary say , " People who tell lies don't go to Heaven . " Staying in Jeff's convenient extra bed , Herbert confesses his lie to Jeff , and considers an eternity in Hell . . . Inviting Charles Herbert back on the show was a wise move . This episode , understandably , comes up a little short when compared to the first ; but , Mr . Herbert's little " David " is always welcome . Oscar Rudolph's direction shows some flair , also . The subject matter may seem a little heavy for children watching in 1959 , but writer John Whedon and Ms . Reed lighten up on the prospect of going to Hell for lying . Nothing But the Truth ( / 59 ) Oscar Rudolph - Donna Reed , Charles Herbert , Paul Peterson
A Date with Stephen Pearson	When Jackie Kelk ( as Burt " Bo " Boland ) return from a trip to France , Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) is allowed to stay up late , and entertain the adults with her piano playing . Neither mother Donna ( Donna Reed ) nor Alex ( Carl Betz ) seem interested in watching Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) performing his new " magic show " act . Paul thinks his parents don't love him as much as they do Mary . His enterprising friend Stephen Peterson ( as Zachary " Zack " Blake ) tells Jeff it's " The Law of Vanishing Returns " - or , how a second child ( Jeff ) isn't as loved as the first born ( Mary ) . To prove she and Alex love their son as much as their daughter , Donna plans to have Jeff overhear a conversation she and Alex have , on the family's newly installed intercom system . . . Here is the expected sibling rivalry episode , which Mr . Peterson and Ms . Fabares can do just as well ( if not better ) in 30 seconds . The best scene has Jeff being lured out for a night on the town with the seductive older boy , Mr . Pearson , who steals the show in his second " Donna Reed " series appearance . Jeff vs . Mary ( / 59 ) Oscar Rudolph - Paul Peterson , Stephen Pearson , Donna Reed
Hats Off to D . W . Griffith	Early film short directed by D . W . Griffith ; it might be more accurately called a " short short " at barely three minutes . It is entertaining , though . The director is saying , " Ladies , please remove your hats ! " Why ? Because you can't match a movie when some woman parks herself in front of your seat , and leaves her HUGE hat on . There are some early silent film stars in attendance - obviously Flora Finch , Linda Arvidson , and Florence Laurence . Mack Sennett is the man with the finny nose and the checkered suit . The men are not easy to identify , with their backs turned ; but , that must be Robert Harron in the lower right of your screen , going crazy over " Those Awful Hats " . The film really MOVES ? all the time , there is movement ALL OVER the screen . Ms . Arvidson recalled , in her autobiography , " How many times that scene was rehearsed and taken ! It grew so late and we were all so sleepy that we stopped counting . But pay for overtime evolved from this picture . " Those Awful Hats ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - Flora Finch , Mack Sennett , Robert Harron
Overly Sentimental , but Captivating Drama	Loretta Young stars as the wife of University professor Kent Smith . Life seems wonderful ; however Ms . Young is told , after a second miscarriage , she can never have children . Later , she is speeding home , after some event , and hits a child with her car . A truck driver ( also on the road ) takes the boy , and leaves the desperate woman wondering what injuries she's caused . " Paula " begins as a seemingly routine Loretta Young drama , but keep your eye on the picture for a grabber . The story becomes very interesting as circumstances make Young a dramatic hit-and-run driver . The story builds suspense in several ways - - beginning as Young searches for the boy she hit , while the police search for Young . Although it's a great story , the script becomes more and more sentimental - - by the end , it's so maudlin you'll want to scream ( if you're not crying ) . Tommy Rettig is notable as the boy ; in fact , he is Young's co-star . Mr . Rettig also played one of Lassie's famous owners ( Jeff ) . Young and Rettig do well , but they would be even better after a realistic script re-write . The film has some unexpected depth , and raises some interesting crime / punishment questions ; perhaps , its flaws could be addressed in a modern re-make . Paula ( 1952 ) Rudolph Maté - Loretta Young , Tommy Rettig , Kent Smith
Father Like Son	Home from college , 19-year-old Winston Miller ( as Tommy ) goes to father Edward Everett Horton's office . Mr . Miller is obviously infatuated with his Dad's fetching secretary Ruth Renick ( as Grace Wilson ) ; he runs errands and recites poetry for her . Ms . Renick is unresponsive , showing no romantic interest in the younger man ; she is secretly in love with another . . . " A Coronet Talking Comedy " by Joseph A . Jackson . " Ask Dad " is a slight , but well-performed , and well-recorded , " talkie " . Mr . Everett Horton performs excellently ; he is obviously prepared for a long and successful career in the talking picture field . Casting Winston as his son was wise ; on screen , the two actors seem to show a circumstantial family resemblance . Winston , who went on to write and produce , was the brother of more famous Patsy Ruth Miller . Renick was a versatile actress from the teens ; like so many , she found good material become rarer with advancing years .
A Little Lamb Goes a Long Way	Douglas Fairbanks ( as Gerald , a " Son of the Idle Rich " ) jumps from stage to screen as " The Lamb " , an extension of the successful Broadway character he'd been playing during the first half of the decade . Mr . Fairbanks had essayed a smaller role in " The Martyrs of the Alamo " ; wisely , it was held back until " The Lamb " premiered . This was the first of Fairbanks ' successful Triangle / D . W . Griffith-supervised run of films . It's a good introduction to an amazing silent film career , which ended with " The Iron Mask " ( 1929 ) . Fairbanks is a wealthy " Lovesick Lamb " , head-over-heels for beautiful Seena Owen ( as Mary , " The American Girl " ) . Ms . Owen is set for a big society wedding with woolly Fairbanks ; but , their relationship is threatened by Fairbanks ' timid nature . Owens wishes her " lamb " were more like " Her Model Type of Man " , Alfred Paget ( as " The Goat " ) . So , Fairbanks heads west , to prove his mettle . Down Mexico way , he encounters savage Native Americans . Later , Fairbanks knowingly sent " The Lamb " to Buster Keaton ( " The Saphead " ) .
A Shot in the Park	Joan Bennett is a manicurist / reporter , and Cary Grant is a police detective . They have a few funny lines in " Big Brown Eyes " ; and , along comes Walter Pidgeon with his gang of jewel thieves . The main problem , for me , was the clash between the humor , and the crime drama . The major crime is the accidental shooting of a baby , in its baby carriage , in the park - the scene give you a jolt , and kills the " comedy " . Later , a man is shot after he delivers a witty line . It doesn't mix well . Ms . Bennett and Mr . Grant are the main attraction ; they are fun to watch , and show promise as a movie " team " . I did not care much for the story ( or the slanted camera angles ) , however . Big Brown Eyes ( 1936 ) Raoul Walsh - Cary Grant , Joan Bennett , Walter Pidgeon
The Last Card	Western saloon and gambling hall proprietors William S . Hart ( as " Keno " Bates ) and Herschel Mayall ( as " Wind River " ) are robbed , at gunpoint , by Gordon Mullen ( as Jim Maitland ) , after he loses his last cent gambling with Mr . Hart . Hart and Mr . Mayall track Mr . Mullen down , and Hart shoots him dead . On Mullen's body , Hart finds a note announcing the arrival of the deceased's sister , Margaret Thompson ( as Doris Maitland ) . Meeting her stagecoach , Hart feels responsible for the innocent and attractive Ms . Thompson ; he tells her Mullen was more honorably " killed in a mine accident . " Moreover , Keno turns his cabin over to Thompson , saying it belonged to her brother . Romance blossoms ; then , jealous saloon dancer Louise Glaum ( as Anita ) threatens to expose " Keno Bates , Liar " . Reissued as " The Last Card " , this Thomas H . Ince production features a " catfight " between Hart's rivaling women . Regular character player Mayall has a featured role . The shooting of Mullen features some good camera-work ; and , he's a more complex than the usual " villain " , since Hart ( presumably ) hustled the man's money from him . And , Thompson has an amazingly bad aim , unless she intended to only wound her target . Keno Bates , Liar ( / 15 ) William S . Hart - William S . Hart , Herschel Mayall , Margaret Thompson
The Sequel Proving Less Is More	" A new time , a new odyssey , a new chance to confront the enigmas arising from the daring Jupiter mission of the year 2001 . Crew members aboard the Leonov are on course to rendezvous with the still orbiting Discovery . What they don't know is that they are equally on course for an uncharted realm of human destiny . And their fate will rest on the silicon shoulders of the computer they awaken , HAL-9000 , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Yes , they reactivate creepy computer HAL , which is one of many instances where this film errs . In the original " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " , HAL ( Douglas Rain ) was mesmerizing . Herein , " his " malfunctions are explained in full ; and , the horror of HAL's malicious presence is figuratively castrated . " 2010 ( The Year We Make Contact " ) takes away so much of the original's mystery and imagination , it is absolutely imperative to see Stanley Kubrick's original " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " ( 1968 ) first . Cold warring American Roy Scheider ( as Heywood Floyd ) and Russian Helen Mirren ( as Tanya Kirbuk ) lead the new mission . Keir Dullea ( as Dave Bowman ) is a welcome supporting actor , and the always dependable Dana Elcar ( as Dimitri Moisevitch ) is a treat . Of the crew , HAL's pal Bob Balaban ( as Dr . Chandra ) provides the most excitement , due to his creepy chemistry with computers . If only the story possessed better foresight ? 2010 ( 1983 ) Peter Hyams - Roy Scheider , Helen Mirren , Keir Dullea
Soggy Psychological Drama	Joan Bennett is " The Woman on the Beach " , caught between her blinded husband Charles Bickford and their Lieutenant friend Robert Ryan . Or , maybe not ? I couldn't figure out what was going on , though the actors try their best . The film keeps you wondering what motivates the three principal characters . Far too much is hinted at , and far too vaguely . As far as I'm concerned , the result is unsatisfying . I don't understand the imagery in the beginning , and I certainly can't figure out what I'm supposed to deduce by the ending . Some of what goes on in between is nice looking . You'll wonder , where is the rest the movie ? The Woman on the Beach ( 1947 ) Jean Renoir - Joan Bennett , Robert Ryan , Charles Bickford
Going a Little Over the Distance	A little too-standard re-make of the " Cowboys and Indians " western drama ( " The Lost Patrol " , " Sahara " ? ) . It does update the budget - with scenic location camera-work , and interesting direction by Andre De Toth . Broderick Crawford is fine , but seems a little out of place in western gear . Barbara Hale adds feminine charm . Johnny Stewart is fine as the Indian boy ; but , certainly not as mesmerizing as in " Boots Malone " ( 1952 ) . But , there isn't as much potential in this film's parts . Lloyd Bridges looks similarly under-appreciated . " Last of the Comanches " shows a formula getting tired , with not enough newness in the storyline . The production is good , though . The film is bracketed by exciting " Cowboys versus Indians " battles , and there is a lively series of line explosions , in-between . Last of the Comanches ( 1952 ) Andre De Toth - Broderick Crawford , Barbara Hale , Johnny Stewart
Charming Young Performers Make This Dog Hunt	Tommy Kirk is a typical teenager ( Wilby ) who gets an ancient ring caught in his trouser cuff . The magical jewel turns him into an on-again / off-again shaggy dog . Mr . Kirk's father Fred MacMurray ( Mr . Wilson ) hates dogs ; little brother Kevin Corcoran ( Moochie ) loves them . This is a Walt Disney movie for kids ; and , it's one to try to enjoy without asking a lot of questions about a very weak plot . The idea is fun , and the " special effect " might have looked very good to young 1959 eyes . Today , it's a movie to watch for the young performances . Kirk is very good as Wilby , effectively giving " The Shaggy Dog " a voice ; he is charming . Tim Considine and Kevin Corcoran are likewise charmers as Kirk's pal and kid brother . Mr . Considine ( as Buzz ) has a terrific scene to watch for - - look for his performance as he tries to put " the make " on fetching neighbor Roberta Shore , on her couch , with rival Wilby watching in dog form ! Also , watch for the always charming Annette Funicello , delightfully bracketing the film as Buzz ' sometimes steady . The Shaggy Dog ( 1959 ) Charles Barton - Fred MacMurray , Tommy Kirk , Tim Considine
A Song of Two Humans	D . W . Griffith's version of the classic " American Film Tragedy " - Poor Young Couple is threatened when the man meets ? The Seductress ! Lillian Gish and Walter Miller are the plain , unassuming lovers - they marry , and she has a child . When they go to Town , Temptress Viola Barry spies hunky Mr . Miller , and the dye is cast . She conveniently has car trouble when he is passing by , and begins her seduction . Miller steps out on Ms . Gish , who finds an incriminating glove in Miller's pocket ? and , so on . . . For Griffith and company , " The Mothering Heart " is a bit of a let-down , considering the high quality of the recent " The Burglars's Dilemma " ( 1912 ) and " Death's Marathon " ( 1912 ) . Though everyone works hard , the situation and club flirtation scenes are somewhat silly . The Mothering Heart ( 1913 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Walter Miller , Viola Barry
Mourning Wood	Six months of hot women can't get emotionally blocked San Francisco stud Josh Hartnett ( as Matt Sullivan ) to forget sexy ex-girlfriend Vinessa Shaw ( as Nicole ) ; so , he decides to give up sex for " 40 Days and 40 Nights " ( aka " Lent " , the time period before Easter ) . It's a lot harder than it sounds , because Mr . Harnett vows to give up ALL forms of sexual activity , including masturbation . Promiscuous roommate Paulo Costanzo ( as Ryan ) is around to help ; he examines Hartnett's sheets for fluids , and lets everyone on the Internet know about his pal's pledge . Presumably , Mr . Costanzo orders Hartnett to shower with the door open . Things get very sticky ( or , not ) when women try to arouse Hartnett's interest . To complicate matters , he meets sexy Shannyn Sossamon ( as Erica ) at the Laundromat . Still , Hartnett perseveres . He gets Christian help , in the confessional , from priestly brother Adam Trese ( as John ) ; Mr . Trese is , secretly , struggling with the same vow . Of course , the real story is the discovery , by Hartnett , of " true love " ( instead of just sex ) . Other than a confusing , dream sequence climax ; it's all fairly predictable . Director Michael Lehmann and team succeed in making the premise unrealistic , even for a silly movie . Sossamon and Costanzo are very likable with Hartnett . There are a few laughs . One cool scene features more topless women than " Electric Ladyland " . 40 Days and 40 Nights ( 2002 ) Michael Lehmann - Josh Hartnett , Shannyn Sossamon , Paulo Costanzo
Sky Pilot	World War II veteran William Holden ( as Harry Brubaker ) isn't sure he wants to return to service as the United States of America battles Communist expansion in Korea ; although , Fredric March ( as George Tarrant ) is very convincing . With the support of glamorous wife Grace Kelly ( as Nancy Brubaker ) and pal Mickey Rooney ( as Mike Forney ) , Mr . Holden agrees to participate in a dangerous mission - - he will attempt to blow up " The Bridges at Toko-Ri " , a Communist stronghold . Mark Robson directs his starry cast well . The ending is especially exciting , albeit getting there is rather dull . Rooney helps to keep it from getting too boring ; and , he helps mend fences with the Japanese . Ms . Kelly punctuates the regal , top-o'-the-line production values ; noticeably , she is barely around . Holden's portrayal is a little ambiguous , while Mr . March is very dutiful . March's character should know the answer to his question , " Where do we get such men ? " since he has a front row seat .
A New Testament for the Indian Race	Film adaptation of Zane Grey's western story " The Vanishing American " ; once upon a time ; this was considered a very sympathetic " History of the Indian Race " . Presently , it's worth is much more subjective ; it would be entirely appropriate for modern viewers to take offensive , especially Native Americans . The film's highlight is the opening prologue ; for its time , a very nicely researched , and extraordinarily photographed , history of Native Americans . Edgar Schoenbaum and Harry Perry are the cinematographers capturing Monument Valley , the Grand Canyon , and other places looking exquisitely beautiful . Some of the footage seems excitingly authentic , for example , the " Cliff Dwellers " segments . As the film jumps to the present , Richard Dix ( as Nophaie the Warrior ) emerges as the " hero " ; arguably , he neither looks nor acts like a real Native American . The " epic " story becomes a decidedly more boring tale involving horse thief Noah Berry ( as Booker ) . There is a lovely white woman , of course , to turn Dix ' head ; she's Lois Wilson ( as Marion Warner ) . Ms . Wilson also converts Mr . Dix to Christianity ; and , he is certainly not a hard sell .
Lusting in His Heart	Thomas Meighan ( as Robert Gordon ) is a is a typical husband , with the matrimonial faults most wives will find in / tolerable ; he smokes too much and likes the " Fox Trot " . Gloria Swanson ( as Beth Gordon ) is his virtuous , but bored , wife ; she is likes to sew and is concerned for the " starving millions in Europe . " Bebe Daniels ( as Sally Clark ) is an attractive young widow who models for the " Mansion Chic " ; she will rock the Gordon marriage ! The cat ( as Toodles ) and Theodore Kosloff ( as the violinist ) are fun to watch . Also fun is Ms . Daniels making herself attractive to her old acquaintance ( of her father ) by putting a heart decal on her shoulder ; her pursuit of wavy-haired men is boldly interesting . Ms . Swanson dolling herself up to win back her man , and the women cat fighting , are amusing scenes . You have to sympathize with Mr . Meighan , aghast at the ludicrous fashions on display in this movie ; the women's lingerie and bathing suits are freakishly unbelievable ! There is nothing terribly outstanding about " Why Change Your Wife " , when compared with other DeMille fare from the time period . As a DeMille production , it rises above mediocrity , of course ; it was inevitable that more domestic gripes would be filmed , as the box office demanded . Why Change Your Wife ( 1920 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Thomas Meighan , Gloria Swanson , Bebe Daniels
Arrested Development	New York City slum lass Mary Pickford ( as Annabelle " Little Annie " Rooney ) has a 12-year-old's girlish crush on William Haines ( as Joe Kelly ) , who becomes the suspect in a too-close-for-comfort murder . " Little Annie Rooney " is a well-produced film ; however , Pickford's " little girl " characterization does not fit the slummy story . The film begins with Pickford in a protruded fight with fellow street children , throwing bottles , bricks , and fists at each other . Apparently , this is meant to show Pickford as a " tomboy " character ; but , frankly , she appears insultingly retarded . Pickford's pouting performance is more cloying than convincing , through most of the film . A well-intentionally diverse cast provides some cringe worthy moments ; for example , Pickford spoon-feeding Spec O'Donnell's " Abie Levy " character some ham . Gordon Griffith ( as Tim Rooney ) is another notable co-star ; his mother Katherine was the fine supporting actress seen in Pickford's " Pollyanna " . Director William Beaudine re-teamed with his star for the superior " Sparrows " ( 1926 ) .
More Boys in the Hood	More " Boys Town " fun from director Norman Taurog and company ; including Spencer Tracy as the good Priest , and Mickey Rooney as Bad Boy ( turned good ) . Mr . Tracy continues to fight for his homes for " Delinquent Boys " ; Mr . Rooney begins to fight for wayward boys , too , proving the Priest's theories work . Again , Tracy makes a good case for nurture over nature . Again , the film suffers through mugging slapstick , and oversentimentality . It's difficult to take the movie seriously after the slow-motion fight scene . Larry Nunn steals the film , with a more consistent performance than Spencer Tracy ! Mickey Rooney ! and Bobs Watson ! If you must take another trip to " Boys Town " , watch Larry Nunn as " Ted " turn in a fine performance amid all the overacting and underplaying . Men of Boys Town ( 1941 ) Norman Taurog - Spencer Tracy , Mickey Rooney , Larry Nunn
" The East Side Kids " Catch the Jitterbug	" East Side " boxing star " Mr . Dynamite " Leo Gorcey ( as Ethelbert " Muggs " McGinnis ) is kidnapped by thugs , in order to throw a championship fight to New York City's rival " West Side " . But fellow " East Side Kid " Bobby Jordan ( as Danny Lyons ) takes Mr . Gorcey's place , and wins the fight . Gorcey is convinced Mr . Jordan , who is dating his sister , had him waylaid on purpose . To make matters worse , Jordan wins a TKO over Gorcey in " The East Side Amateur Jitterbug Contest " , with pretty partner Pamela Blake ( as Ivy McGinnis ) . This is a poorly scripted entry in " The East Side Kids " series . Gorcey's " Muggs " veers too far away from his established character ; especially , in the way he treats Jordan's " Danny " ; yet , Gorcey and Jordan perform the roles well enough to make it work . The jitterbugging contest , with Huntz Hall ( as Glimpy McGleavey ) and his TALL partner , is a highlight . To beef up the team , Benny Bartlett ( as Bennie Miller ) and David Durand ( as Joe " Skinny " Collins ) join returning Ernest Morrison ( as Scruno Jackson ) and Bobby Stone ( as Harold " Stoney " Stone ) . The film ends on a patriotic note . Kid Dynamite ( / 43 ) Wallace Fox - Bobby Jordan , Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall
From Russia with Love	One snowy day in Russia , peasant girl Lillian Gish ( as Marfa ) is saved from abduction by dashing Frank Bennett ( as Jan ) , a visitor from San Francisco ; and , a romance between the two begins . But , young Ms . Gish is under the guardianship of controlling uncle Allan Sears ( as Ivan ) and avaricious aunt Pearl Elmore ( as Anna ) ; they do not approve of Mr . Bennett , because he does not have money . Gish's family wants her to marry homely , but wealthy William Siebert ( as Peter ) . Gish refuses . Then , Mr . Sears ' brother in Los Angeles invites Sears and the family to Los Angeles , promising a rich husband for Gish . She is delighted to find Bennett on board the same Stateside-bound boat : but , after arriving in the US , Uncle Sears and brother William A . Lowery ( as Georg ) separate the lovers , and plan to sell Gish into marriage , for $1 , 000 . . .
Church Bells Take Their Toll	New York electrician Matt Dillon ( as Gus DeMarco ) wants to buy a bowling alley in Brooklyn , with his buddies from work ; but , he doesn't have the money . To get his share of the bucks , Mr . Dillon must either sell his beloved Corvette , or marry off his alimony-collecting wife . If Dillon can find " Mr . Wonderful " for ex-wife Annabella Sciorra ( as Leonora " Lee " DeMarco ) , he can stop payments . Making her ex-husband's job more challenging , Ms . Sciorra has hooked up with married college Professor William Hurt ( as Tom ) . Sciorra has returned to school , and is learning Latin . Meanwhile , Dillon is dating sexy nurse Mary-Louise Parker ( as Rita ) . This Anthony Minghella film will be very disappointing if you're looking for anything approaching the caliber of " The English Patient " or " The Talented Mr . Ripley " . As good as they are , director Minghella and his bickering leads , do simply nothing with this ordinary , predictable story . There are a few nice moments , like a young downs syndrome couple sneaking a kiss as NYC subway light flicker . But , It's difficult to believe Sciorra suddenly dating the series of men recommended by Dillon . And , it's hard to fathom Dillon giving up a woman as desirable and intelligent as the gainfully employed Nurse Parker ( a part filmmakers should have considered making an " airhead " ) . Second-stringers , like Parker and Con Edison worker David Barry Gray ( as Pope ) , are more interesting to watch than the stars . Mr . Wonderful ( 1993 ) Anthony Minghella - Matt Dillon , Annabella Sciorra , Mary-Louise Parker
Almost Cut My Hair	Spurned by his girlfriend , Patrick Fugit ( as Zia ) cleans his room , and slits his wrists . Now dead , Mr . Fugit gets a job at " Kamikaze Pizza " ( good to know there is pizza after death ) . Fugit meets various and sundry suicide victims . Of the individuals he meets , you should consider three highly significant : Shea Whigham ( as Eugene ) , Shannyn Sossamon ( as Mikal ) , and Tom Waits ( as Kneller ) . As a truly fine overdose hopeful , Ms . Sossamon is very easy to fall in love with . A mostly humorless " Wizard of Oz in Purgatory " road trip . Nick Offerman , appearing as a battle-scarred police officer , has the only really funny moment . The title " Wristcutters " either shouldn't be plural , or the term is being used as a synonym for all those suicidal ; and , the subtitle " A Love Story " really gives up the ghost . Although obvious , the film and ( especially ) Sossamon are satisfying enough . Wristcutters ( 2006 ) Goran Dukic - Patrick Fugit , Shannyn Sossamon , Shea Whigham
Walk a Mile in My Red-Soled Shoes	Tripping through Paul McGuigan's " Wicker Park " left me confused in its flashbacks , which would have been fine , if it was coupled with more intrigue . Anyway , hot chick magnet Josh Hartnett ( as Matthew ) is engaged to marry juicy Jessica Paré ( as Rebecca ) , but sees delicious Diane Kruger ( as Lisa ) , an old flame . So , he has second thoughts . Mr . Harnett decides to track down Ms . Kruger . So , he runs into ravenous Rose Byrne ( as Alex ) . Matthew Lillard ( as Luke ) is a pleasant on-screen pal . Harnett's women are a handful . The wintry location ( Chicago , and Chicago-like Montreal ) and Peter Sova cinematography are the main strengths . Wicker Park ( 2004 ) Paul McGuigan - Josh Harnett , Diane Kruger , Rose Byrne
Funny as a Crutch	Wallace Beery ( as Ned Trumpet ) is a World War II blimp aviator ; his unbelievable war stories have helped earn him the nickname " Old Gas Bag " . Though he was never a husband or ( presumably ) father , Mr . Berry's stories include bragging about the exploits of his talented son ; probably , this is to compete with bickering Navy man James Gleason ( as Jimmy Shannon ) . In one of an unbelievable series of happenstances , Berry meets an fatherless young man , Tom Drake ( as Jess Weaver ) , who makes an ideal son . Trouble is , Mr . Drake's character is unable to walk without crutches ; so , the crippled man doesn't match the son in Berry's stories . While the film scores points for the inclusion of a disabled character ; ultimately , it presents the condition as unworkable . Certainly , Mr . Drake's disability provided him with heroics enough too impress Berry and his Navy friends . The dramatics are highlighted by a couple of exciting battles involving Berry's war blimp ; the Japanese submarine attack is particularly good . The best comic scenes are near the end ; when , in India , Berry is reunited with a friendly old elephant .
Naked as We Came	" Dan Foreman ( Dennis Quaid ) is a loving husband , caring father , and star ad executive . But now , life is putting him through the ultimate test . Carter Duryea ( Topher Grace ) , a young hotshot half his age , has just become his boss . And to complicate matters , Dan discovers Carter is dating his daughter ( Scarlett Johansson ) . It's filled with genuine laughs and you're in good company when you watch this entertaining comedy that ' Rolling Stone ' calls ' hilarious ' , " according to the DVD sleeve . " Rolling Stone " is wrong ; the humor in this film not " hilarious " . Although he tries , Mr . Quaid can't make lines like " Only my wife is allowed to touch me there ! " funny , and Mr . Grace's borderline kid / adult talk is just embarrassing . The dorm poster advertising : " Marijuana ( Because Your Friends Just Aren't Very Funny ) " may be good advice , concerning the comedy part of this comedy / drama . Writer / director Paul Weitz and his cast do much better with the dramatic portions , which take over by the third act . Although , by then , it's too little , too late . When Quaid and Grace hug , you wonder where the good story went . It should have ended with Quaid receiving the son he wanted , but in an unexpected way ? In Good Company ( / 04 ) Paul Weitz - Dennis Quaid , Topher Grace , Scarlett Johansson
Wobbly Comedy with Valentino Supporting	Mae Murray ( as Mary McGuire ) works as a coat and cloak check girl ; when she dons one of the customers garments and dances around in it , she is fired . Ms . Murray decides to apply for a job as hostess and dancer at the " Peach Tree Inn " managed by William Mong ( as Larry McKean ) . In order to clinch the job , Murray pretends to be infamous dancer Gloria De Moin . Murray is also the only dancer available to hire , as all of the other applicants walk out . Randy Rudolph Valentino ( as Jimmy Calhoun ) is a " Peach Tree Inn " patron who becomes enamored with Murray - he wants to marry her , but his wealthy father is wary . Meanwhile , Bertram Grassby ( as Duke de Sauterne ) returns to complicate matters ; he was involved with the real Gloria De Moin , and is on the lam from the law ? Handsome Valentino and smarmy Grassby are the highlight of the film , which picks up considerably whenever the two strut their stuff over Murray . Otherwise , the story is uninteresting , and the comedy doesn't work . Unfortunately , the film is " speeded up " - possibly , this is done to enhance its comedy effect ; instead , it can make you dizzy , or put you to sleep . " The Delicious Little Devil " is not the place start , if you want to appreciate silent films fully . The Delicious Little Devil ( 1919 ) Robert Z . Leonard - Mae Murray , Rudolph Valentino , Bertram Grassby
John Wayne as a Pilgrim	Handsome young John Wayne ( as Breck Coleman ) helps settle the great American West by serving as scout for a pioneer wagon train . An expert trailblazer , Mr . Wayne was trained by good Indians . With Wayne's help , the travelers overcome both bad weather , and bad Indians . Bad acting is not so lucky . Along the way , Wayne falls for fetching young Marguerite Churchill ( as Ruth Cameron ) . Another attempting to catch Ms . Churchill's eye is dressed-in-black gambler Ian Keith ( as Bill Thorpe ) . This creaky film is , of course , most significant as Wayne's first shot at a starring role . Seeing this film confirms the " real " John Wayne premiered in " Stagecoach " ( 1939 ) - the difference is amazing . Raoul Walsh's " The Big Trail " is most impressive in its wide-screen photography , advanced by the director and photographer Arthur Edeson . Lucien Andriot's work is also good . The rest of the cast is interesting , at least ; with stage star Tyrone Power Sr . ( as Red Flack ) leading the charge , in his only " talkie " appearance . The Big Trail ( / 30 ) Raoul Walsh - John Wayne , Marguerite Churchill , Tyrone Power Sr .
Three Cheers for Bernard Gorcey , Raymond Hatton , and Carl Switzer	In a noticeably well-performed ( and uncredited ) opening , former " Our Gang " member Carl " Alfalfa " Switzer ( as Shifty Robertson ) arrives at Bernard Gorcey ( as Louie Dumbrowsky ) ' s ice cream parlor and sweet shop , after being " found " by Huntz Hall ( as Horace Debussy " Sach " Jones ) . Promising they will be millionaires , Mr . Switzer sells Leo Gorcey ( as Terrence Aloysius " Slip " Mahoney ) and " The Bowery Boys " his uranium mine . The deed is placed in the senior Gorcey's name ( as he put up the $500 ) . Of course , the trio , plus secondary " Bowery Boys " David " Condon " Gorcey ( as Chuck ) and Benny " Bennie " Bartlett ( as Butch ) , don't know they've been flimflammed - but , the land proves to be more valuable than originally thought ? This was the last appearance of Bernard Gorcey ( father of Leo and David ) ; sadly , he died following a car accident , just before the release of " Dig That Uranium " . The elder Gorcey performs well herein , and had become the most valuable supporting player in " The Bowery Boys " series . Leader of the pack Leo Gorcey would only last only one more film , which was thought to be due to his father's death ; however , it appears he might be having problems , even now ( before " Crashing Las Vegas " ) . Carl Switzer ( a murder victim in 1959 ) performs his opening so well , it's a shame he wasn't asked to work more often . Earlier , Switzer worked with present " Bowery Boy " Bartlett and former " Dead End Kid " Billy Halop in the " East Side Kids " imitation " Gas House Kids " gang . Raymond Hatton ( as Hank ' Mac ' McKenzie ) and the rest of the cast provide more reasons to watch an otherwise mediocre movie . Dig That Uranium ( / 55 ) Edward Bernds - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Bernard Gorcey
Matt Dillon Soaks Up Local Cambodia	" After a bogus insurance scam sparks an FBI investigation , front man Jimmy Cremmins flees to Cambodia to meet his mentor , Marvin . But Jimmy gets more than he bargained for when - against a backdrop of raw , dangerous beauty and ever-shifting loyalties - Marvin draws him into a web of deceit and murder from which there may be no way out ! , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Matt Dillon promisingly joins the multi-tasking actor ranks , as the director , star , and co-writer of " City of Ghosts " . The film's main strength is its striking Southeast Asian scenery . Mr . Dillon and photographer Jim Denault make Cambodia look darkly beautiful , with the film's soundtrack music helping to set the mood . Father figuring James Caan ( as Marvin ) , cool blonde Natascha McElhone ( as Sophie ) , and baby wielding Gérard Depardieu ( as Emile ) try to keep up with Kem Sereyvuth ( as Sok ) and the local crowd . Stellan Skarsgård ( as Joseph Kaspar ) is a stand-out . Unfortunately , he story is relatively weak . City of Ghosts ( 2002 ) Matt Dillon - Matt Dillon , James Caan , Stellan Skarsgård
Horsing Around with the Other Chaplin	Syd Chaplin ( as " Old Bill " Busby ) and Jack Ackroyd ( as Little " Alfie " ) are World War I servicemen ; while being bombarded , in a foxhole , Mr . Chaplin tells Mr . Ackroyd , " If you knows of a better ' ole - - go to it . " This exchange gives the film its peculiar title . The characters are based on the ( by now ) obscure British cartoon comic " Old Bill " , by Bruce Bairnsfather . Seeing the familiar characters brought to the screen might have made the opening scenes delightful , but they no longer entertain . Veterans ( of film ) Edgar Kennedy ( as Austin ) and Harold Goodwin ( as Bert Chester ) help make the early going bearable . Ackroyd's stabbing of Chaplin as he sleeps under a bale of hay begins some intermittently good scenes . Chaplin's chair lifting ability amazes , and the Chaplin / Ackroyd team becomes funnier as the comedy progresses ; they are most delightful as " two-men-in-a-horse " . The production levels offered by Warner Brothers are quite high ; " The Better ' Ole " was the second film to make use of the studio's synchronized music and sound effects " Vitaphone " process . With a certain British sibling named " Charlie " experiencing a " Gold Rush " at the box office , it's easy to understand Warner's effort .
Wherefore Art Thou , Romeo ?	A synopsis reveals this to be a faithful adaptation of Shakespeare's " Romeo and Juliet " . Film historian Anthony Slide reported the only significant difference being , " Rosaline , the girl of whom Romeo is enamored before meeting Juliet , is shown , not merely talked about . " In his early 30s , Francis X . Bushman might seem a little too old , by present standards , to be playing " Romeo Montague " ; but , audiences in 1916 couldn't have cared less . As one of the most popular leading men from the era , Mr . Bushman would have been a natural casting choice . Immensely popular , Bushman was in the " Top Ten " of the decade's " Motion Picture Magazine " favorites lists : star # 4 in 1912 , # 6 in 1913 , # 10 in 1914 , # 3 performance of 1915 in " Graustark " , star # 3 ( and # 1 male ) in 1916 , # 2 ( and # 1 male ) in 1917 , and # 10 in 1918 . Popular co-star , probable off-screen lover , and future Mrs . Bushman , beautiful Beverly Bayne was " Juliet " . This film competed with a the near-simultaneous release of box office rival Theda Bara's version . If only the two had performed " Romeo and Juliet " in the same film , and had it survive the ages ? Romeo and Juliet ( / 16 ) John W . Noble - Francis X . Bushman , Beverly Bayne , Fritz Leiber
Just Your Average Joe	Spencer Tracy plays a World War II pilot who isn't just killed , but demolished , in the exciting opening of " A Guy Named Joe " . He goes to a Heavenly place ( with Lionel Barrymore in charge ) . There , he is given his Real Wings - he is to return to earth and be Van Johnson's " Guardian Angel " . In the process , he has to deal with Mr . Johnson hooking up with his ex ( Irene Dunne ) . The Victor Fleming-directed movie doesn't do anything to differentiate the ghostly Mr . Tracy from the Earthbound players . The story is propagandistic and illogical . But , the production looks nice , and the performances are worthy . A Guy Named Joe ( 1943 ) Victor Fleming - Spencer Tracy , Irene Dunne , Van Johnson
Loretta and Clark in Mayoral Scandal	Clark Gable and Loretta Young look MGM production perfect as they play two Mayors who meet at a convention in San Francisco . Mr . Gable is the rough one , ex-longshoreman Steve Fisk . Ms . Young is the softer focused Clarissa Standish . The well-named twosome clash , of course , during the Mayoral proceedings - but , can romance be far behind ? It's an average film for the two stars . Recommended scenes : the " Balloon Dance " woman who loses most of her balloons , and the " Barroom Brawl " which follows . All that gets Young in trouble with her constituents . Notable also as Frank Morgan's final film . Gable tussles Mr . Morgan's hair . Key to the City ( 1950 ) George Sidney - Clark Gable , Loretta Young , Frank Morgan
I'll Have Another Miller	The bloom is off the rose of the Stewart / Allyson partnership from " The Stratton Story " ( 1949 ) . They still have a nice screen rapport , but no are scenes as good as in their initial effort . Instead , the sad events in the Millers ' life seem to be accompanied by a cheerful tear and stiff upper lip ; for example , watch how they handle not having children . You definitely get a sense of the importance of the subject , musician Glenn Miller ; but , you also get a sneaking suspicion this is a VERY glossed over production . The dancers during one of Miller's most exciting numbers aren't even as excited as the elderly dancers on an old " Lawrence Welk Show " rerun . There are some serious editing / continuity distractions - worse , they are so obvious they spoil the important scene when Mrs . Miller and friends listen to the Christmas program . The filmmakers practically hit you over the head with how its going to end ; if you don't know , you'll easily guess . This one should be good for fans of Mr . Miller , Mr . Stewart , and Ms . Allyson ; but , I'd like to see a more accurate Glenn Miller film story . The Glenn Miller Story ( 1954 ) Anthony Mann - James Stewart , June Allyson , Harry Morgan
John Wayne's Last Shot	Notorious western gunslinger John Wayne ( as J . B . Brooks ) is dying of cancer . He receives some painkilling medicine from friendly old doctor James Stewart ( as E . W . Hostetler ) . Then , Mr . Wayne rents a room from Lauren Bacall ( as Bond Rogers ) ; there , he hopes to die ( God willing ) as peacefully as possible . Ms . Bacall has a son , Ron Howard ( as Gillom Rogers ) , who has a hankerin ' for notorious western gunslingers ? The film opens nicely , with a slightly older " Opie Taylor " narrating over scenes from superior westerns from Wayne's past . These tie Wayne's " Shootist " character in with the old Wayne persona ; at least , it's a blended memory of the older western roles Wayne played - - from Red River ( 1948 ) to El Dorado ( 1966 ) . The character Wayne plays does not compare favorably with the older roles , however . The director , cast , and storyline make " The Shootist " a sentimental undertaking , as it is Wayne's last film ; eventually , he would die from cancer ( unlike the character in this film , incidentally ) . Actor Wayne and director Don Siegel have some good moments , and Bacall does very well . The sets and locale are lovely . Mr . Howard is a little tough to take as a ( presumably ) teenager idolizing Wayne . The ending , with Wayne and Howard in some cathartic moment , does not work . It's weird to see Wayne stick a gun in " Morning Appeal " reporter Richard Lenz ' mouth , and order him to suck . Soon after , he kicks him . Even weirder is the scene where Wayne goes to get a shave and haircut in the local Barber Shop . You never see the barber cut into his hair . In fact , Wayne looks no more " trimmed " than when he went in - - but the barber sweeps up a bunch of silver hair anyway , after finding a piece on Wayne's vest . The Shootist ( 1976 ) Don Siegel - John Wayne , Lauren Bacall , Ron Howard
Father Figures	Fair-minded boat builder John Travolta ( as Frank Morrison ) takes time out to attend teenaged son Matt O'Leary ( as Danny Morrison ) ballgames . But , young O'Leary is more likely to be found at the Southport jail - he's having trouble accepting snarky rich Vince Vaughn ( as Rick Barnes ) , who quickly marries his divorced mom , Teri Polo ( as Susan ) . O'Leary is further alienated when he learns step-father Vaughn has impregnated Ms . Polo . Distressed , he stows away on a car ride with Vaughn , to the " Shady Tree Motel " . There , Vaughn picks up skuzzy ex-pal Steve Buscemi ( as Ray Coleman ) . O'Leary witnesses a murder , but not even Travolta will believe him ? Harold Becker's " Domestic Disturbance " provides a fair amount of suspense ; but , it's not the " edge of your seat thriller " promised in the film's promotional material . The characterizations suffer , in a loose , contrived script . Travolta , for example , goes from sleuth ? to disbelief in his son ? to certainty ? and , back to sleuthing . Vaughn is obviously villainous , and O'Leary is obviously sincere ( in his first feature film ) - poor Polo sure takes an extraordinary amount of time sorting them out . Domestic Disturbance ( 2001 ) Harold Becker - John Travolta , Vince Vaughn , Matt O'Leary
Barbary Coast Melodrama	San Francisco madam Ruth Chatterton ( as " Frisco " Jenny ) suffers paternal abuse , out-of-wedlock pregnancy , and the San Francisco earthquake of 1906 . After becoming a mother , Ms . Chatterton tries to go straight ; but , she is unable to support a child . Chatterton partners up with Louis Calhern ( as Steve Dutton ) ; and , they prosper in prostitution and bootlegging . Mr . Calhern also provides a legitimate home for Chatterton's son , who grows into a football star and , later , a successful district attorney . Grown-up son Donald Cook ( as Dan Reynolds ) doesn't know about his mother's life of crime . Will their paths cross ? A " star vehicle " for Chatterton ; " Frisco Jenny " is , otherwise , unsatisfying . Chatterton and the cast are entertaining , though ; and , she performs especially well during the film's final scenes . During the trial , William A . Wellman's direction is somewhat dizzying . And , why does Chatterton save money , for years , to pay back Calhern - after all , she went to jail to cover for him ! Frisco Jenny ( / 32 ) William A . Wellman - Ruth Chatterton , Donald Cook , Louis Calhern
Broken Hip Hop	Veteran ( read : the old guy ) Harrison Ford ( as Joe Gavilan ) really wants to make a big sale in his sideline real estate business . Rookie ( read : the young dude ) Josh Hartnett ( as K . C . Calden ) sidelines as a yoga teacher who really wants to be an actor . Mr . Ford likes to listen to Smokey Robinson , who appears as a cab driver . Mr . Hartnett yells " Stella ! " , and stages a version of " A Streetcar Named Desire " , which you can see part of , in the last act . Ford beds lovely psychic Lena Olin ( as Ruby ) , and eats Viagra . Hartnett beds various women , and eats bean sprouts . " Police detectives are different in Hollywood , " they say . . . Ron Shelton's " Hollywood Homicide " involves Ford and Hartnett investigating rap murder . Ms . Olin and Bruce Greenwood ( as Bennie Macko ) are strong supporting players . Fair to middling appearances are offered by Gladys Knight ( not singing ) , Lou Diamond Phillips ( gunning for Eddie Murphy ) , Mr . Robinson ( a Miracle ) , Frank Sinatra Jr . ( the son of ) , and Robert Wagner ( in wet cement ) . Despite the involvement of some real rappers , the hip-hop music angle doesn't ring authentically . And , the film never finds the comic groove it's so obviously seeking . Things pick up toward the end , if you want to cut to the chase . Hollywood Homicide ( 2003 ) Ron Shelton - Harrison Ford , Josh Hartnett , Lena Olin
The Million Dollar Mermaid	A detailed synopsis of Herbert Brenon's lost spectacular can be easily found ( presently ) by searching " A Daughter of the Gods " and " Library of Congress " . Before that , the film's program expressed its fantastical content , " The Prologue : The plaything of a little child escapes its earthly prison . And thereby hangs a tale of many years ago . Act One : The land of a Mighty Sultan , and a record of many strange happenings there . A Fairy Prince and Princess Meet . Act Two : Wherein we all become children again and fight for a beautiful Princess . The land of the Great Beyond . The Fairy Prince and Princess meet again , never to be parted . " " A Daughter of the Gods " was shot in Jamaica , and cost over a million dollars to make . It was the second successful collaboration for acclaimed director Herbert Brenon and aquatic superstar Annette Kellerman ( herein , playing Princess Anitia ) . Although several reviewers reported it to be " stodgy " and too long ( Brenon called it " three enchanting hours " ) , over several years ( and reissues ) , it must have eventually recouped its cost . " Tasteful " nude scenes , exposing the conveniently long-haired Ms . Kellerman's naked form , must have helped cause the sensational box office . A Daughter of the Gods ( / 16 ) Herbert Brenon - Annette Kellerman , William E . Shay , Violet Horner
Friends and Lovers	Early film directed by D . W . Griffith ; it stars Mary Pickford as an upstairs saloon girl who has a great time with dandy patron Henry B . Walthall . Then , he leaves her for business opportunities up " north . " Ms . Pickford is devastated , of course . On his way of town , Mr . Walthall meets old friend Lionel Barrymore , who is on his way in town . Ironically , his friend's abandoned girl catches Mr . Barrymore's eye . Later , Walthall returns ? Classic plot involving two " Friends " in love with the same girl . Pickford and her suitors play it quaintly . The film endeavors to show the lasting friendship between men Walthall and Barrymore . Yet , Pickford steals the theme - making it more a study of her character's sacrifice . Friends ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Mary Pickford , Henry B . Walthall , Lionel Barrymore
Womankind Overcomes Man's Vagary	Subtitled " A Psychological Tragedy " , this one's about four survivors of a deserted mining camp making their way across a hot and windy western desert . Claire McDowell leads the group ; alongside her are : her ailing husband Charles West , and her sister Mary Pickford . Before leaving , Ms . McDowell invites abandoned woman Dorothy Bernard to join the group ; and , she gratefully accepts . As they journey , Mr . West's health falters , and Ms . Bernard is rebuffed for showing him some possible affection . At their first rest stop , lady leader McDowell takes Ms . Pickford out to fetch some water , leaving husband West alone with the comely Bernard . Pickford has already begun to suspect Bernard is making advances on her brother-in-law , and persuades her sister to sneak back and catch the twosome . Sure enough , they discover Bernard and West trysting - however , it was West who initiated the contact , not the suspected Bernard . After West dies of his ailments , McDowell and Pickford become obsessed with vengeance , disbelieving the innocent Bernard ? A atmospherically visual treat from D . W . Griffith , G . W . Bitzer and the good folks at Biograph ; " The Female of the Species " is filmed in warm and windy California . The performances of the lead actresses McDowell , Pickford , and Bernard are outstanding . The story is not up to snuff , however - the " womankind " strengths are unbalanced by some odd motivations and situations . Perhaps the most implausible moment occurs when husband West's " dominant vagary " temporarily cures whatever is ailing him , so he can vigorously attack his alluring prey . Obviously , somebody needed to bottle vagary ! The Female of the Species ( / 12 ) D . W . Griffith - Claire McDowell , Mary Pickford , Dorothy Bernard
Love Is in the Air	Although they are not at their relative best in this rather routine drama , actor Richard Barthelmess ( as Jim Blaine ) and director William A . Wellman make " Central Airport " worth visiting . Mr . Barthelmess is in a familiar role as an accident prone World War I pilot . He catches Sally Eilers ( as Jill Collins ) hanging from a tree , after a parachute drop . This funny / sad sequence , early in the film , is a highlight - - Ms . Eilers and Barthelmess have a great meeting , which is immediately followed by great tragedy . Although the two fall in love , Barthelmess won't marry ; he thinks daredevil pilots are unstable husband material ( a keen observation ) . Instead , Eilers marries Barthelmess ' little brother Tom Brown ( as Bud Blaine ) . Eilers appears in a far too brief scene in her slip , by the way ( about 30 minutes into the running ) . Later on , an interesting scene occurs with Barthelmess and Eilers in separate rooms , divided by a wall ; then , the camera moves is a way which pleasantly violates the " Fourth Wall " rule ( showing the set ) . Another notable sequence occurs later in the film , near the end ; wherein , John Wayne appears as an extra . Mr . Wayne plays Mr . Brown's co-pilot , on a downed plane , to the left of your screen . He tries to save a drunken passenger . A somewhat unpredictable ending keeps the film above average .
In Apple Blossom Time	In Vienna , before The Great War ( aka World War I ) , dashing Erich von Stroheim ( as Nicki ) is a Prince with little family money ; therefore , parents George Fawcett and Maude George ( as Prince and Princess von Wildeliebe-Rauffenburg ) want their son to wed the wealthy , but crippled , Zasu Pitts ( as Cecelia ) . Mr . von Stroheim seems game ; though , obviously , he plans to continue bedding maids and other girlies . However , attending the " Corpus Christi " celebration , he meets impoverished beauty Fay Wray ( as Mitzi ) . And , for von Stroheim and Ms . Wray , it's love at first sight . As if matters weren't complicated enough for the mutually attracted pair , Wray has been promised to spitting butcher Mathew Betz ( as Schani ) . Will von Stroheim marry for love , or money ? " The Wedding March " is a very well-produced film , but Stroheim miscasts himself as the romantic young " love child " ; and , he takes more than a little getting used to . When Wray falls in love with him , Stroheim recalls , all decked out , the cruel " Iron Man " knight which helps open the film . By the end , this appears to have been intentional . The film is , also , way too lengthy ; while possessing some lovely images , it drowns itself in a sea of apple blossoms . The soft focus lens is unnecessarily excessive on Wray's beautiful , young face . The actresses perform very well ( Wray , Pitts and George ) ; and the photography , including a color segment by Ray Rennahan , is luxurious .
Griffith Gets Sweet on West	On an opportunistic walk in the country , Blanche Sweet encounters a snake , and is rescued by dashing Charles West ; the two are mutually attracted , and begin courting . Mr . West is Ms . Sweet's ideal . Then , trouble arrives from the city , in the form of Dorothy Bernard , Sweet's visiting sister . Introducing Ms . Bernard to a pal doesn't work ; and , she sets her sights on her sister's beau . Soon , it's West and Bernard strolling in the country ; and , Sweet is devastated ? Director D . W . Griffith employs the " classic love triangle " very well ; with Sweet , West , and Bernard playing the roles perfectly . Of course , the characters are placed in the expected danger situation , which is suspensefully staged and directed . While this may not be the most innovative Griffith , it's definitely a crosscutting cut above your average early 1900s film .
Leonardo We Hardly Knew Ye	As a ritualistic murder is committed , in Paris ' Louvre museum , Harvard " Professor of Religious Symbology " Tom Hanks ( as Robert Langdon ) delivers a lecture on " The Interpretation of Symbols " . Naturally , as a famed symbologist , Mr . Hanks is called upon , to help investigate the murder . Assisting Hanks is pretty police cryptologist Audrey Tautou ( as Sophie Neveu ) . Ms . Tautou immediately hooks up with Hanks ; and , the two quickly turn from investigators to investigated . Meanwhile , fanatical self-flogging murderer Paul Bettany ( as Silas ) eludes capture ? Writer Dan Brown's storyline is a grand one ; and , director Ron Howard's film adaptation of " The DaVinci Code " is definitely well-produced . Still , it's neither as successful nor startling as the book . If you've managed to stay unfamiliar with the main plot revelations , they should be apparent by the time Ian McKellen ( as Leigh Teabing ) pontificates . Mr . McKellen and Mr . Bettany effectively play their showy supporting roles . Hans Zimmer contributes a marvelous soundtrack . Until something better comes along , this version of the story is intriguing , at least . The DaVinci Code ( 2006 ) Ron Howard - Tom Hanks , Audrey Tautou , Paul Bettany
A Flying Turkey from the Marx Brothers	The Marx Brothers and Frank Albertson must avoid being thrown out of their hotel suite . They have no money to pay their bill , so they invent a series of ailments for Mr . Albertson to act out in order to distract hotel management . The four hope an upcoming production of a play will reverse their fortunes . " Room Service " finds the Brothers slightly of the mark . Groucho and Chico appear uninterested , especially when watching the other performers . Harpo is more lively , but is still not quite Harpo ; his " Say Ahhhh ? " goes on too long . Oddly , enough , the fourth member of their team , Mr . Albertson , turns in the more consistent performance . Donald MacBride is also very good . Lucille Ball acts like the Marx Brothers - standing around until her next line . Ann Miller is more interested , as Albertson's squeeze . A flying turkey steals the show ! Room Service ( 1938 ) William A . Seiter - Groucho Marx , Chico Marx , Harpo Marx
A Touch of Doris	Doris Day gets her outfit ruined , but meets wealthy Cary Grant . She accepts his romantic trip to Bermuda , but gets " cold feet " in the bedroom . Ms . Day's portrayal of a sexually repressed woman facing the prospect of becoming an " old maid " was very good - especially during the sequence where she imagines a series of beds while out with Mr . Grant . She is nervous about sex and / or wants husbandry at this point in her life , so she refrains . Later , she changes her mind and returns to Bermuda , but is too drunk for sex . Day , drunk and spread-eagled on bed waving a bottle of booze on her toe , is very funny ! I do not understand Grant's character ; he is seen stepping out with other women , and states he not attracted to Day ( though , he did like kissing her back ) ; all of the sudden , he seems to be in love with her ! Maybe because she said " No " ? Also , I do not understand how a psychiatrist would be unable to deal with homosexuality ( he believes Gig Young's character is gay ) . The film looks beautiful - sets and photography . The practice of blurring Ms . Day is not as bad as in other films . I don't know why it's necessary to blur Ms . Day in this film ; she would look fine with the older Grant . That Touch of Mink ( 1962 ) Delbert Mann - Cary Grant , Doris Day , Gig Young
A Little Theatrics Goes a Long Way	" This is theatrical ! " declares prosecutor Frank Sheridan , as the final " A Free Soul " trial is re-opened , near the end of the movie . Indeed , this is an extremely theatrical melodrama . The prosecutor's exclamation comes as alcoholic defense lawyer Lionel Barrymore quizzes actressy daughter Norma Shearer about her affair with underworld gambler Clark Gable . Yes , theatrical . Ms . Shearer is too often using her hands to exclaim ; however , she is a riveting , and sexy " Jan Ashe " . Mr . Barrymore ( as Stephen Ashe ) is incredibly coherent , for a drunken defender , as he teeters over the edge . Gable ( as Ace Wilfong ) displays an abundance of the aggressive manliness audiences loved in the 1930s . So , you get three great stars doing what they do best . Slightly over the top , but fun to watch ; supporting players Leslie Howard , James Gleason , and Lucy Beaumont are almost as much , in less flashy roles . For its time , the characterizations and subject matter were commendable . The ace film-making team of Clarence Brown ( director ) and William Daniels ( camera ) make " A Free Soul " look lovely . Interestingly , the Willard Mack play " A Free Soul " ( 1928 ) starred Kay Johnson ( star of the just released " Madam Satan " ) , and featured the great , pre-celluloid Melvyn Douglas ( as Ace ) .
Dan Curtis Produces Dorian Gray	The story is familiar - Oscar Wilde's Dorian Gray wishes his painting would grow old whilst he remain young . This is the version from Dan Curtis Productions , which produced the TV-series " Dark Shadows " from 1966-1971 ; the television show incorporated a version of " Dorian Gray " into the series ' " 1897 flashback " ( 1969 ) . The next film , the sexually charged " Dorian Gray " ( 1970 ) , starred Helmut Berger . But , the most well-known version remains " The Picture of Dorian Gray " ( 1945 ) , which starred Hurd Hatfield . This " The Picture of Dorian Gray " ( 1973 ) was produced for late night TV , and the " videotape " quality shows , sadly . Still , it plays . Few actors could play the part as deliciously as Helmut Berger ( who fitted the part like a glove ) ; but , Shane Briant takes a fine turn in the lead role . Mr . Briant's Dorian is sweeter-looking , but much more evil . Nigel Davenport , John Karlen , and Fionnula Flanagan head a great group of supporting players . The 1973 TV film , oddly enough , portrays Dorian as more wicked than other versions . For example , Briant's character has sex with a child ; and , it's not ambiguous ! In addition to upping the wickedness , the film is played more for horror than drama . Briant's blackmailing of pal John Karlen ( as Alan ) by reciting his lovers ' names tops other versions ; the 1970 movie had Dorian and Alan's wife in some naked photographs . The Picture of Dorian Gray ( 1973 ) Glenn Jordan - Shane Briant , Nigel Davenport , John Karlen
All in Color for a Dime	High School history teacher , and unapologetic fanboy , Mark Hamill ( as Don Swan ) is tapped to serve as technical adviser for a film adapting the adventures of his favorite super-hero , " Commander Courage " . The film producers decide it would financially rewarding for a documentary to accompany the film , and DVD . So , Hamill is followed around , showing his love for " Commander Courage " ( and bare-legged sidekick " Liberty Lad " ) , interviewing comic strip celebrities ( like the Marvelous Stan Lee ) , and inadvertently causing trouble for the movie studio . Don't search your " Golden Age " comic book collection for any evidence of " Commander Courage " . The " Wow Comics " heroes " Mr . Scarlett ( & Pinky ) " and " Commando Yank " look promising , but the super-hero is more ( or less ) a composite creation . His origin is like a " Big Bang " version of Fawcett's " Captain Marvel " . As with " real " comic heroes , " Commander Courage ( and Liberty Lad " ) " undergo a steroids ' n ' silicone reboot . The " Dark Age " version is the movie studio's interest , much to Hamill's chagrin . Mr . Hamill's film satirically illustrates what it attempts ; but , its specialized focus does not , unfortunately , advance the idea that comic books are an important art form . Instead , the film will probably confirm an unbeliever's view of comic book aficionados as arrestedly developed . " Comic Book : The Movie " is funnier as a satire on Hollywood studio types . While obviously low budget , it is an enjoyable movie . Cameraman Jess Harnell ( as Ricky ) is the film's greatest asset . Mr . Harnell smoothly makes every one of his lines , both scripted and improvised , work . Harnell is Hamill's indispensable , and sometimes hilarious , sidekick ( and , he does a fantastic Beatles impression ) . Billy West ( as Leo Matuzik ) has some Keatonesque deadpan moments . Discovered in " a musical version of ' Under the Yum Yum Tree ' " , Daran Norris ( as Bruce Easily ) essays one of the better " comic " characterizations . And , Jonathan Winters and Maggie Thompson show how to give a great " cameo " performance . Do NOT skip viewing the full version of Hamill's historically revelatory interview with Hugh Hefner , on disc two . Finally , Matt Kenny , the boy receiving a " Shazam ! " toy from Hamill , is the film's biggest super-hero . He REALLY knowing his " Marvel Family " characters . Comic Book : The Movie ( 2004 ) Mark Hamill - Mark Hamill , Jess Harnell , Billy West
Limehouse Hoer	In the seedy Limehouse district of London , Colleen Moore ( as Twinkletoes ) rushes to bust up a major street brawl , with her comedic ballet routine . Ms . Moore's charming dance , with musical assist from father Tully Marshall ( as Dad Minasi ) , soothes the savagery . Ironically , Moore falls in love with the man in the center of the conflict , professional boxer Kenneth Harlan ( as Chuck Lightfoot ) . Mr . Harlan is also enchanted with Moore ; however , he is already married to boozy , shrewish Gladys Brockwell ( as Cissie ) . This film was released in late 1926 , around the time Colleen Moore was determined to be the year's # 1 US Box Office Star , by Quigley Publications ( currently recognized as the industry standard ) . So , Moore is justified in production and characterization resembling Lillian Gish or Mary Pickford ; she had reached a equalizing level . " Twinkletoes " is an enjoyable feature , although it falls short of the poetic standard it is so obviously straining to achieve .
Binary Boris Karloff	Boris Karloff ( as Gregor and Anton de Bergmann ) plays cursed twins , separated as young children . " Twenty years later " ( forty would have been closer to the lead actor's apparent age ) , good twin " Anton " returns to the old Hungarian homestead , where bad twin " Gregor " presides as Baron . They , and most everyone in town , are aware of a " Cain and Abel " - recalling curse , which dictates that the younger Karloff kill the older Karloff , in " The Black Room " . Can two Karloffs survive in the castle , and for how long ? The dualistic Karloff , director Roy William Neill , and photographer Allen Siegler make an otherwise very ordinary , predictable film look much better than it should . Karloff's performance in the later half is especially outstanding ; he makes it very difficult to turn away from the screen . Lightly porcelain-faced blonde Marian Marsh ( as Thea Hassle ) is a beautiful vis-à-vis . The Black Room ( 1935 ) Roy William Nell - Boris Karloff , Marian Marsh , Robert Allen
Haines Makes You Feel Good	William Haines ( as Brice Wayne ) is a cocky West Point cadet , and star football player , who alienates his teammates with his arrogance , and lack of team spirit . His steadfast pal , William Bakewell ( as Tex McNeil ) , can't defend Mr . Haines without ending up in the hospital ; and girlfriend Joan Crawford ( as Betty Channing ) grows more distant as Haines juvenile behavior becomes more and more tiresome . What will it take for Mr . Haines to win Ms . Crawford's heart ? Will Mr . Bakewell regain his health ? Can Haines straighten up in time to help his teammates win the big game ? " West Point " is a typical Haines film vehicle ; it is worth checking out to see the popular actor's performance , and enjoyable screen presence . It is neither his most satisfying characterization , nor his best film ; but , Haines is still great . Crawford's emoting is less polished , in an early role . Surprisingly , Bakewell offers the film's strongest performance ( highlighted by his hospital bed scene ) . Edward Sedgwick's direction makes the most of Haines ' silliness , and David Davidson's soundtrack is wonderful ( albeit sounding too seasonal , at times ) .
Turnabout is a Good Play	Although Adolphe Menjou is billed first , the " Turnabout " stars are John Hubbard ( as Tim , then Sally ) and Carole Landis ( as Sally , then Tim ) ; they play a bickering couple who are granted a wish : they switch bodies ! There are some stereotypes evident , but this is a surprisingly well-done comedy from the time period . Possibly , the most " offensive " bit is not the gender role playing , but the repeated bit involving Mr . Menjou and the water fountain . Donald Meek ( as Henry ) and Marjorie Main ( as Nora ) are delightful as servants to the gender-bending couple . Mr . Hubbard and Ms . Landis are funny and believable . The ending is a trifle weak ; but , " Turnabout " is an enjoyable surprise . Turnabout ( 1940 ) Hal Roach - John Hubbard , Carole Landis , Adolphe Menjou
All Quite on the Russian Front	It's 1942 , and the Russians are brutalized by the Nazi Army at Stalingrad . Still , the Russian resisters proclaim , " Never will the enemy put his foot on the soil of Stalingrad ! " Sharp-shooting soldier Jude Law ( as Vassili Zaitsev ) meets , and bonds with , commissar comrade Joseph Fiennes ( as Danilov ) . Mr . Fiennes , who survives massacre by playing possum , is very impressed with Mr . Law's sniper fire . Law had been firing between the eyes since his days as a shepherd boy . After losing several Germans to Law's bullets , the Nazis send their own Major sharpshooter , Ed Harris ( as König ) , out to bag Law . Meanwhile , Law and Fiennes form the obligatory " love triangle " with fetching Rachel Weisz ( as Tania ) . Jean-Jacques Annaud directs big production values well enough , and the story's setting is a refreshing change from the usual western-fronted World War II epics . But , the whole thing collapses under its unnecessary , and startlingly ordinary " love triangle " . Law and Ms . Weisz are the main lovey-dovey duo . Their love-making scene may remind you about . . . well , not waking up the roommate . Duplicitous chocolate-loving young Gabriel Thomson ( as Sasha ) and Mr . Harris portray somewhat more interesting supporting characters . Enemy at the Gates ( 2001 ) - Jude Law , Joseph Fiennes , Rachel Weisz
A Working Class Hero Is Something to Be	" In all the history of the boxing game you find no human interest story to compare with the life narrative of James J . Braddock " is how the famed writer ( and boxing fan ) Damon Runyon described the Boxer he dubbed " Cinderella Man " . Director Ron Howard uses the quote to open the film . So , you are guaranteed a heartwarming story of a man who overcomes abject poverty . Russell Crowe ( as Jim Braddock ) begins as a moderately successful boxer , living with wife Renée Zellweger ( as Mae ) and their three young children . The Braddock family suffers through bad luck , cold New Jersey winters , and the Great Depression . If you've been cold and poor , you'll identify with warming socks in the stove and adding water to stretch a bottle of milk . The film's , and the leading character's , high moral tone is set when Mr . Crowe , in an early scene , brings his son to the local butcher shop ; there , the boy returns a piece of meat he stole to feed the hungry Braddock family . " No matter what happens , we don't steal , " Crowe explains . Ever . He also promises the children , " We will never send you away , " and sobs when poverty dictates otherwise . His dedication and commitment to his wife and children are the driving force in the life of the boxer . Today , the boxing ring has been taken over , in popularity , by choreographed pretenders . But , once upon a time , you were to cause your opponent actual physical damage . Continuing to hit someone in the head until they fell , " Knocked Out " , was the prime directive . During a fight , Crowe's manager Paul Giamatti ( as Joe Gould ) demands , " Fill his face with blood ! " Later , Crowe's Braddock is successful enough to face wicked champion Craig Bierko ( as Max Baer ) , who is credited as having " killed two men in the ring . " So , the fight is promoted as a chance to witness a potential murder . Boxing and morality make strange bedfellows . But , " Cinderella Man " is a pretty , predictable , and well-produced film . Cinderella Man ( 2005 ) Ron Howard - Russell Crowe , Renée Zellweger , Paul Giamatti
The OK Corral Legend Grows Longer	For Burt Lancaster , Kirk Douglas , Dennis Hopper , and / or western fans , generally , this movie is O . K . Others may want to make a full pot of coffee before viewing " Gunfight at the O . K . Corral " . Could they stretch out the story of these characters any further ? Anyway , it has some differences from other versions . Mr . Lancaster and Mr . Douglas are both good , and the film is mostly enjoyable if you like the epic western style represented ; although , in my opinion , this isn't really the best version of the story . The singing of Frankie Laine was okay , but I confess to wondering , each time he sang , can this be near the end ? . I found myself bored , and read signs ; for example , the " Eddie Foy " sign - that was a favorite . The signs that , finally say , " O . K . " and " O . K . Corral " were signs of relief ! Just like they said , the movie is O . K . Gunfight at the O . K . Corral ( 1957 ) John Sturges - Burt Lancaster , Kirk Douglas , Dennis Hopper
Two Minutes To Live	" When Simon ( Ryan Phillippe ) awakens in the hospital after surviving a near-fatal accident , amnesia has erased the last two years from his memory . He learns that his brother ( Robert Sean Leonard ) was killed , he has married a woman he doesn't remember ( Piper Perabo ) ? and he's haunted by strange visions of the woman he loved ( Sarah Polley ) . Soon , he starts to uncover the truth behind his brother's death and unravel the unbelievable turns his life has taken ? " Actually ( or perhaps not ? ) , Mr . Phillippe falls in love with his estranged brother's fiancée ( Ms . Polley ) , which results in a violent confrontation - and , an even more tragic car accident , involving all three . Roland Suso Richter's direction of Michael Cooney's " Point of Death " is intriguing , engrossing , and imaginatively plotted . But , the ending does not really fulfill the film's promises - and , the lead character's relationships with both brother and lover lack passion . Still , it's more good than not . The I Inside ( 2003 ) Roland Suso Richter - Ryan Phillippe , Piper Perabo , Sarah Polley
The Poor People of Paris	The sleeve attempts to explain : " The Cold War may be over , but a new world order keeps a group of covert mercenaries - whose skills in surveillance , reconnaissance , and attack are legendary - employed by the highest bidder . These operatives for hire , known as " Ronin " , are assembled in France by a mysterious client for an extremely dangerous mission : steal a top-secret briefcase . This seemingly easy task soon proves explosive as other underworld organizations vie for the same prize . But to get the job done , this rag-tag group of misfits , led by an ex-CIA agent named Sam ( De Niro ) , must do something they've never done before - trust each other ! " Head " Ronin " ( think Japanese samurai ) Robert De Niro ( as Sam ) and Jean Reno ( as Vincent ) are definitely a team you want on your side ; the two actors have a cool chemistry , which almost makes up for the lack of an intellectually stimulating story . It can also be fun to guess where the team's traitors lurk - sometimes obvious , and sometimes not . Director John Frankenheimer and photographer Robert Fraisse provide you with wild , speeding car chases - which more than deliver orgasmic crashes . Hopefully , the citizens of Paris were advised to stay in their homes during filming . If filmmakers wanted to leave you with some mystery about the contents of a certain silver suitcase , they certainly succeeded . Probably , it was only a pair of silver ice skates . Ronin ( 1998 ) John Frankenheimer - Robert De Niro , Jean Reno , Natascha McElhone
Orphans in the Dorm	Freddie Bartholomew stars as a seemingly upper crust " Lord " ( Jeff Braemer ) who is really an orphaned thief ; suspected in an emerald necklace heist , he is sent to a navel academy and meets idealized Irish orphan Mickey Rooney ( as Terry O'Mulvaney ) . Boy-among-the-young-men Terry Kilburn ( as Albert Baker ) keeps the " cute quotient " high . Their roles are tailor-made for Mr . Bartholomew's " British upper crust " and Mr . Rooney's " Irish working lad " personas . Bartholomew is perfect as the aristocratically-guised London thief , complaining about the " wretched " hotel service and fainting during opportune moments . Bussed to a a purgatory-type sailor school ( not quite a hellish reform school ) , he immediately clashes with Rooney . The two " child stars " contrast well , and their difficult bonding becomes the film's main source of entertainment . Rooney is much more relaxed in " Lord Jeff " than other " orphaned lad " roles ; here , he exudes natural likability . Kilburn's little Albert seems out of place among the older boys , but he performs as well , and gives Bartholomew's character some much-needed appeal . Other story structure , and editing , problems weaken the running time . Irrelevant , probably , to the film " Lord Jeff " is the status of its two stars . Bartholomew was a very popular " boy star " and Rooney was much more popular as a " teen star " ; and , they made several films together . This film catches the Bartholomew near the end of his career , and Rooney beginning his most successful years . With this in mind , don't miss their mid-film fistfight ! Lord Jeff ( / 38 ) Sam Wood - Freddie Bartholomew , Mickey Rooney , Terry Kilburn
Knocking Down the House	Accused of killing a policeman , ageing juvenile delinquent John Derek ( as Nick " Pretty Boy " Romano ) turns to lawyerly father figure Humphrey Bogart ( as Andrew Morton ) for defense . Mr . Bogart was acquainted with Mr . Derek's similarly jailed father , and had been trying to rehabilitate the young man , off and on , over the years . Derek swears he is innocent ; and , believing him , Bogart takes the case . District Attorney George Macready ( as Kerman ) is just as sure that Derek is guilty . When the trial begins , Bogart tells the unfortunate story of Derek's life , which is shown in flashbacks ? Derek's life is , indeed , filled with misfortune . After the death of his father , young Derek is reared in slums ; caught stealing , he is sent to reform school . Upon release , Derek fails to " go straight " , despite getting a legitimate job , and marrying the attractive , compassionate young Allene Roberts ( as Emma ) . During the flashback sequences , the film's weakness is exposed - - while there is nothing wrong with his performance , Derek isn't given enough script to thoroughly make the film's point : that young men like him are " angels with dirty faces . " This theme , that society was the cause of juvenile delinquency , had been a subtle part of movies during the 1930s-'40s . " Knock on Any Door " makes the theme explicit ; but , the film does not offer strong enough characterizations to back up its thesis . Willard Motley's original novel was much clearer , undoubtedly ; an accurate film adaptation was unlikely in 1949 . Mr . Motley's sequel " Let No Man Write My Epitaph " , was adapted for film , more successfully , in 1960 . Together , the Motley novels might make an interesting " epic " re-make . Still , Nichols Ray and Bogart make " Knock on Any Door " interesting viewing . The supporting cast is full of faces to spot : Dooley Wilson , Sid Melton , John Mitchum , and others .
That Griffith Woman	Briefly , as explained in an introductory title card , " This is the historic tale of two people whose lives are an immortal romance ; the story of the love and destiny of England's greatest beauty , and England's greatest sailor . " The film focuses on the greatest beauty of Corinne Griffith ( as Emma Hart ) . Her main lover is the greatest sailor , Victor Varconi ( as Horatio Nelson ) . Ms . Griffith dominates the drama , which begins in late 18th century England . Introduced as a servant girl , Griffith becomes enamored with noble boss Ian Keith ( as Charles Greville ) . After gaining a reputation as a " vulgar hussy " , Griffith is sent to Italy ; there , she becomes more ladylike , and marries Mr . Keith's uncle , H . B . Warner ( as William Hamilton ) . Then , as " Lady Hamilton " , she meets , and has an historically influential affair with Mr . Varconi , her " true love " . " The Divine Lady " is a showy , costly production . It was noticed during the second " Academy Awards " ceremony for the direction of Frank Lloyd . Mr . Lloyd's direction is , indeed , a strength ; in one scene , he makes you feel you are on a Ferris Wheel . Lloyd was also noted for directing Richard Barthelmess in " Weary River " and " Drag " , films which sandwiched " Divine Lady " . John Seitz ' photography is another strength ; he is responsible for many beautiful scenes ; and , of course , shows superstar Griffith in her best light . Comic relief Marie Dressler ( as Mrs . Hart ) appears too briefly . In 1994 , Corinne Griffith received a belated " Academy Award " nomination as " Best Actress " for " The Divine Lady " ; the revelation appeared in Robert Osborne's " 65 Years of the Oscar : The Official History of the Academy Awards " . There were no actual " nominations " announced that year ( actually , the 1928-29 season ) ; after the awards gained stature , there were attempts to bring the earlier ceremonies in line with what was becoming the industry standard . The inclusion of Griffith's name among the nominees may have been due to a suggestion Jeanne Eagels ' performance in " The Letter " be dropped , since she died in October 1929 . A look at the other nominations would support Griffith's inclusion ; however , the second ceremony was not one of the Academy's best efforts . Griffith's starry , self-conscious performance was better than " Best Actress " winner Mary Pickford's , in " Coquette " ; but , so were most . Lillian Gish and Greta Garbo essayed far superior characterizations , during the eligibility period , but were not nominated . However , dog star Rin Tin Tin was considered for a " Best Actor " nomination . The Divine Lady ( / 29 ) Frank Lloyd - Corinne Griffith , Victor Varconi , H . B . Warner
A Clockwork Apple Pie	Muscular , handsome James Marsden ( as Steve Clark ) moves to the sleepy island town of " Cradle Bay " , with his parents and younger sister , after older brother " Alan " shoots himself to death . The family enrolls the children in " Cradle Bay High School " . Predictably , the high school is full of obviously older actors cast as teenagers . Oddly , Mr . Marsden finds it difficult to fit in with his peers , especially a group of do-gooders called the " Blue Ribbons " , who swear off sex , drugs , and rock and roll music . Instead , " Blue Ribbons " save their juices , eat yogurt , and listen to Wayne Newton and Barry Manilow music . Marsden does connect with grungy stoner Nick Stahl ( as Gavin Strick ) . Mr . Stahl thinks some form of mind-control is infecting the town . Stahl has witnessed some mysterious behavior ( the film's opening shocker ) ; he tells Marsden ; but , Marsden thinks Stahl's just a tweaked , paranoid druggie . Through Stahl , Marsden meets hot , slim-waisted Rachel Wagner ( who moved from " Dawson's Creek " to " Cradle Bay " ) . Ms . Wagner and Marsden form the obligatory romantic twosome ; they pose , and perform , well together . However , the superior role , and performance , is Stahl's " Gavin " ; he is the most normal acting of the lot , on or off drugs . Filming in Canada , David Nutter and John Bartley make " Disturbing Behavior " look way better than expected ; there are quite a few nice location scenes . And , you have to like the high school janitor , with Kurt Vonnegut's " Slaughterhouse-Five " in his hip pocket . It would have been nice to see more of that part of the story ; perhaps , with Stahl and William Sadler setting up a resistance and / or investigation center in the high school basement . And , more close-ups of Steve Railsback's " Officer Cox " . The film too suddenly becomes " A Clockwork Orange " , then " Terminator " ; and , the ending just makes you wish Stahl had more participation . Disturbing Behavior ( 1998 ) David Nutter - James Marsden , Rachel Wagner , Nick Stahl
Running on One Sneaker	" Sneakers " are a team of " security specialists " who specialize in computer hacking . They are : computer expert Robert Redford ( as Bishop ) , former CIA employee Sidney Poitier ( as Crease ) , gadgets wizard Dan Ackroyd ( as Mother ) , young genius River Phoenix ( as Carl ) , and blind soundman David Strathairn ( as Whistler ) . The men are joined in progress by Mary McDonnell ( as Liz ) , likely a former " Sneaker " and definitely a former girlfriend of leader Redford . Mr . Redford , who dominates the action , is also connected to the film's main villain , Ben Kingsley ( as Cosmo ) . Mr . Kingsley's identity isn't too surprising , once you realize he didn't grow up to be the character played by Mr . Ackroyd . The mission is to retrieve a " black box " for some nasty men , who claim to be representing the United States government . The best chunk of the film involves the extended " computer date " Ms . McDonnell has with Stephen Tobolowsky ( as Werner Brandes ) as Redford breaks into the man's office . It begins about the time Mr . Ackroyd arrives with the man's trash and ends with Mr . Phoenix crashing into a scene between Redford and nasty Eddie Jones . Director Phil Alden Robinson , and WarGames-men Lawrence Lasker and Walter F . Parkes , create a good deal of suspense , highlighted by a light sense of humor . But , the picture's conflict ( Redford / Kingsley ) isn't very interesting or dramatic . Although the terrific " Sneakers " team falls short of expectations , their participation alone makes it a film worth watching . Sneakers ( 1992 ) Phil Alden Robinson - Robert Redford , Sidney Poitier , Mary McDonnell
Live by the Sword , Die by the Sword	It opens with the backdrop , " At long last , the wars were over . Arthur , the great king of Camelot , had devoted his life to building a land of peace an justice . Now he wished to marry . But the peace was not to last . The most powerful of Arthur's knights , Prince Malagant , had long been jealous of the King's glory . Now he found cause to quarrel with Arthur and left Camelot with hearted in his heart . And so the land was divided again , between those who rallied to Prince Malagant , seeking the spoils of war , and those who stayed loyal to the King . And then there was Lancelot , a wanderer who had never dreamed of peace or justice or knighthood . Times were hard . A man made his living any way he could . And Lancelot had always been good with a sword ? " An awareness of a general negativity concerning this film is one of the reasons it's a more enjoyable than not . Even without lowered expectations , " First Knight " is an above average film . Jerry Zucker directs a series of well-paced action scenes with pomp and circumstance . William Nicholson's screenplay focuses on the " love triangle " formed with Richard Gere ( as Sir Lancelot ) falling in love with Julia Ormond ( as Lady Guinevere ) on her way to marry Sean Connery ( as King Arthur ) . It isn't difficult to figure out the rest of the story . The three principal players are nicely suited to their roles . Mr . Gere plays " Lancelot " ( the leading man ) with nobility and nonchalance ; he has a gracefulness which might have been utilized in other Errol Flynn-type roles , had he chosen to perform them . Ms . Ormond adds a considerable amount of spirited resoluteness to her " Guinevere " ; this , combined with her physical beauty , makes her irresistible . Mr . Connery's " King Arthur " gives the film an old-world foundation . Ben Cross ( as Prince Malagant ) heads up a splendid supporting cast , with something old John Gielgud ( as Oswald ) , and something new Stuart Bunce ( as Peter ) , all dressed up in something blue . So , where's the rub ? The valiant filmmakers took a chance by removing the mythological elements . The wizard " Merlin " does not appear . " Excalibur " has no magical powers . Stripped of its magic , the still noble " Camelot " is a nice place to visit , but you wouldn't want to live there . First Knight ( / 95 ) Jerry Zucker - Richard Gere , Julia Ormond , Sean Connery
Lurid Red Riding Hood	White trash bred Reese Witherspoon ( as Vanessa Lutz ) loses her whorish mother and crack-head stepfather to the cops . Since she is underage , the social worker comes to take her away ; but , Ms . Witherspoon doesn't want foster care . She handcuffs the social worker to a bed , and heads for a California " Freeway " . Witherspoon wants to go live with her grandmother up North . When her car overheats , she pulls over , and attracts assistance from perverted passerby Kiefer Sutherland ( as Bob Wolverton ) . Mr . Sutherland says he wants to to help little red-jacketed Reese ; but , he has ulterior motives ? Writer / director Matthew Bright's version of the Grimm classic " Little Red Riding Hood " could be described as a crude satire . Sometimes , it is very amusing ; especially funny are Witherspoon's reactions to Sutherland . Witherspoon holds the film's interest . There are a dozen entertaining supporting roles . Susan Barnes is a highly pleasing prison matron . And , dysfunctional parents Amanda Plummer ( as Ramona ) and Michael T . Weiss ( as Larry ) get things off to a great start . Mr . Weiss , late of " Dark Shadows " , and on the verge of success with " The Pretender " , returned for Bright's " Hansel and Gretel " - themed sequel . Freeway ( 1996 ) Matthew Bright - Reese Witherspoon , Kiefer Sutherland , Michael T . Weiss
A Long Working on the Railroad	" The Iron Horse " is the first trans-American railway system ; the story of its construction is told in this film . Chief among the other plot lines is the love story featuring hero George O'Brien ( as Davy Brandon ) and heroine Madge Bellamy ( as Miriam Marsh ) . Villainous Cyril Chadwick ( as Peter Jesson ) comes between them . Will Mr . O'Brien and Ms . Bellamy come together ? Will the Central Pacific railroad and the Union Pacific railroad hook up ? Only time will tell ? This film takes a long , long time to pick up steam . Star O'Brien ( and many regular cast members ) appear only after a prolonged prologue . Some of the supporting cast are dispensable , like the unfunny " three musketeers " . Fortunately , " The Iron Horse " is expertly directed by John Ford ; and , lead actor O'Brien is very appealing .
The Roaring Road ( and Son )	In " The Roaring Road " ( 1919 ) , you might recall , Wallace Reid ( as Walter Thomas " Toodles " Walden ) set the auto record from Los Angeles to San Francisco . He also won a wife , Ann Little ( as Dorothy ) . Ms . Little has convinced Mr . Reid to give up dangerous car-racing ; now , he is the manager of her father , Theodore Roberts ( as J . D . " The Bear " Ward ) ' s , company . Reid has settled into domestic tranquility , but will a threat to his old record ( and sick kid ) tempt him into revisiting the dangerous game of auto racing ? Hint : the film is titled " Excuse My Dust ! " As a sequel , speed writer Byron Morgan's story is more contrived and unimaginative than his other " speed flicks " . The cars are better displayed than earlier , however ; and , Tully Marshall ( as Mutchler ) is a welcome addition to the returning cast . One scene , where Reid nearly kills his son , is rather more uncomfortable than exciting ; some audiences may have thought Wally , Dorothy , and Junior were the real Reid family .
Beware of Transients	Mild-mannered serial killer Owen Wilson ( as Vann Siegert ) drives his truck around , and kills an asthmatic junkie played by Sheryl Crow ; then , he rents a small town room from Brian Cox and Mercedes Ruehl ( as Doug and Jane Durwin ) . The couple seem to be getting over the possible loss of a daughter ( " Karen " ) , and begin to treat Mr . Wilson as a member of their cold , distant family . He's a good fit . Mr . Cox offers fatherly help in getting Wilson a job at the post office ; there , he meets Janeane Garofalo ( as Ferrin ) . Ms . Garofalo is attracted to Wilson , but he appears disinterested . Hampton Fancher's " The Minus Man " is baffling . What's up with the imaginary room entrance , the borrowed truck , and the head bashing ? What compels Wilson ? Was it the spider that crawled in his ear ? Are the detectives imaginary , or from the future ? Like Vann says , " There's a mystery here that I could one day be tempted to explore , when I learn it better . " The film is interesting and well-performed , but only minimally satisfying as a story . The Minus Man ( 1999 ) Hampton Fancher - Owen Wilson , Janeane Garofalo , Brian Cox
Jodie Foster Raises Caine	Entranced by her mandolin playing , Caine accompanies little Jodie Foster ( as Alethea Patricia Ingram ) to a waiting stagecoach . When the coach arrives , an unwelcome gunfight results in Ms . Foster mistakenly believing she sees Caine shoot an innocent man to death . Foster's testimony results in Caine being convicted as a murderer . Although she likes Caine ( she cannot understand why he did it ) , Foster is compelled to tell the truth . And , Caine supports her honesty . Will it result in Caine's death by hanging ? Carradine and Foster are excellent ; they make the somewhat uncertain story believable . Perhaps the oddest moment is when Carradine seems to sigh regretfully when a " lie " saves his life . The episode challenges perceptions about truth . At least , it ends well ; how could it not ? Of the fine " Kung Fu " supporting cast , Radames Pera ( as the younger Caine ) is featured well . With Foster and Pera highlighted , grasshoppers rule the day . Kung Fu - Alethea ( / 73 ) John Badham - David Carradine , Jodie Foster , Radames Pera
A Misguided Bishop for Christmas	First , this film would be more accurately titled " The Bishop " because it's more about David Niven's character than his wife . Mr . Niven plays the Bishop ; and , he is married to Loretta Young ; they are Episcopalian . Niven wants money for a huge Cathedral ; so , an Angel in the form of Cary Grant goes down to grant his wish - or , does he ? You'll want to watch if you like the stars . Ms . Young is perhaps the best ; she plays the wife with the right level of innocence , and creates a solid character . Niven does well in a difficult part , discovering something about wishing , and what to wish for . . . Cary Grant always lifts a film , but his portrayal of the Angel is the film's weak link . There are several times when you think Mr . Grant is going to kiss the wedded Young ! Grant is lighted differently , to make him look Angelic . If you're wondering , " What is this film trying to be ? " by the end , you'll know . . . Of course , there is a " heart-warming " Christmas message . The Bishop's Wife ( 1947 ) Henry Koster - Cary Grant , Loretta Young , David Niven
Angels in Disguise ( with Scratches )	The first " East Side Kids " feature reaches back to the original " Dead End " formula , as another movie studio decides to cash in on the kids . " Monogram " couldn't obtain any of the six original young scene stealers , so they built their team around second stringers . The leader role , usually assigned to Billy Halop , went to Harris Berger ( as Danny Dolan ) . Mr . Berger had joined the original stage play , and was already appearing in Universal's " Dead End " features . The Bobby Jordan-type role is played by Hal E . " Hally " Chester ( as Fred " Dutch " Kuhn ) , who was featured most prominently ( of this cast ) in previous " Dead End " films . Leo Gorcey and the others are replaced by : Frankie Burke ( as Skinny ) , Donald Haines ( as PeeWee ) , Edwin " Eddie " Brian ( as Mike ) , and Sam Edwards ( as Pete ) . And , for one film only , Jack Edwards ( as Algernon " The Mouse " Wilkes ) joins the group , playing the well-heeled " sissy " who wants to be " tough " . The " Dead End " plot variation involves grown-up juvenile delinquent Leon Ames ( as Pat O'Day ) trying to help out some young " Angels with Dirty Faces " . Now a policeman , Mr . Ames decides to open a club for " Danny's Gang " , to keep them out of trouble . Ames recalls his youth as a young gangster , with Dennis Moore ( as " Mile-Away " Harris ) and Dave O'Brien ( as " Knuckles " Dolan ) . Although they are still friendly , Mr . Moore is on the wrong side of the law . Mr . O'Brien , Danny's big brother , is falsely imprisoned . The film is rushed and rough - which , on one level , helps . With re-takes , Mr . Burke's background " scratch and sniff " scene would be " corrected " , but it fits the " Dead End " kid atmosphere perfectly . The film , with some additional work , would be on par with the " Warner Brothers " features . The real Bobby Jordan took over the role of " Danny Dolan " for this film's sequel , " Boys of the City " ; and , early in this " Monogram " series , some continuity between films in attempted . East Side Kids ( / 40 ) Robert F . Hill - Harris Berger , Hal E . Chester , Frankie Burke
Paris When It Sizzles	" All you need is a timetable , " explains playboy Tony Curtis ( as Bernard Lawrence ) , an American reporter working in Paris . Mr . Curtis keeps three blondes in one apartment , each thinking she is Curtis ' " one-and-only " fiancée . The rotating women are all airline stewardesses , on different timetables . Curtis ' sexy arrangement is discovered by envious old pal Jerry Lewis ( as Robert Reed ) . Mr . Lewis plots to take over the satisfying arrangement of women , after he learns Curtis may be transferred to New York . But , both men are threatened when the stewardesses ' flight patterns change ; and , everyone heads for the apartment bed ! Funnier than its reputation ; perhaps , the film's celebration of pseudo-promiscuity distanced it from other sixties sex comedies - - the " romance " between Lewis and Suzanna Leigh ( as Vicky " British United " Hawkins ) comes closest to " acceptable " for the genre . The other two women , hefty knockwurst-loving Christiane Schmidtmer ( as Lise " Lufthansa " Bruner ) and wispy soufflé-loving Dany Saval ( as Jacqueline " Air France " Grieux ) , are more funny than romantic . Curtis is finely frantic ; however , Lewis , in a lower key , and Thelma Ritter ( as Bertha ) are more outstanding . Boeing Boeing ( 1965 ) John Rich - Tony Curtis , Jerry Lewis , Thelma Ritter
J . B . Warner Jumps the Fence	Devil-may-care buckaroo J . B . Warner ( as Jim Gregory ) is torn between two pretty women : south-of-the-border Senorita Elinor Fair ( as Mercedes Aloyez ) catches his romantic eye - but , beautiful Caucasian waitress-in-distress Wilamae Carson ( as Mary Moore ) also captures his attention . Probably , the weakest part of the story involves how the women become a dilemma for Mr . Warner , because he is scripted to favor Ms . Fair almost exclusively ; Ms . Moore unexpectedly attains an equal romantic status , later in the running . And , Warner's selection seems strangely xenophobic . Despite its shortcomings , " Big Stakes " is an enjoyable , well-paced silent western . The handcuffed " big stake " opening leads a few clever bits , and the cast performs them very well . The climax provides some old-fashioned D . W . Griffith-styled excitement . Tall-in-the-saddle Warner is comically supported by rotund ton-of-fun Hilliard Karr ( as " Skinny " Fargo ) . This film provides a rare look at Warner , a western star who died unexpectedly . Les Bates and Robert Grey , the actors playing the two main villains , also died too soon . Big Stakes ( 1922 ) Clifford S . Elfelt - J . B . Warner , Elinor Fair , Hilliard Karr
Silence Is Golden	Fetching young Gloria Swanson ( as Theodora Fitzgerald ) is rescued from drowning by debonair playboy Rudolph Valentino ( as Hector Bracondale ) . Although Ms . Swanson clearly falls for Mr . Valentino , her family notes : he's not the marrying kind . They set beautiful Swanson up with elderly millionaire Robert Bolder ( as Josiah Brown ) , which enhances family fortunes considerably . On her honeymoon , Swanson slips on the Swiss Alps ; she is saved by Valentino , and the two find it difficult to resist each other ? Director Sam Wood's " Beyond the Rocks " is an enjoyable pairing of superstars Swanson and Valentino . Their initial flirtation , and fantastical costumed interludes are effective . Otherwise , the two seem more like pals than romantic partners ; and , the story is sheer nonsense . Still , this is a film found in 2003 , which co-starred not one - - but TWO of the most popular film performers of the 1920s . What will they uncover next ? Much thanks to Nederlands Filmmuseum and Milestone Films for " Beyond the Rocks " .
Griffith Makes Crime Pay	Early crime film directed by D . W . Griffith . Hyped in the subtitle as " Unparallel drama inspired and played on the streets of the American city - Bold - Truthful " ! Lillian Gish lives with her musician husband Walter Miller near Pig Alley , an area frequented by gangsters . The head Musketeer is Elmer Booth . Gangster Booth tries to put the make on Ms . Gish , and mugs Mr . Miller as he returns home with his hard-earned pay . Stumbling into a gang shootout , Miller recognizes Musketeer Booth as his mugger . What will he do ? Here , in " The Musketeers of Pig Alley " , Gish and Miller are better than when they are threatened by the temptress in " The Mothering Heart " ( 1913 ) . Acting more naturally , you really sympathize with the couple . Booth is an endearing " Little Caesar " . The shootout is lively , and the thugs creeping along the alley walls into close-ups is interesting . The ending is played more for humor ; it's not bad , but it breaks the mood of the movie . The Musketeers of Pig Alley ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Walter Miller , Elmer Booth
Citizen Forrest	Keeper of the Flame ( 1942 ) George Cukor - Spencer Tracy , Katharine Hepburn , Margaret Wycherly The film opens with the never appearing " Robert Forrest " dying in a car crash . Robert Forrest was , as it turn out , a great American hero ; his tragic accident is big news ; and , and the country mourns . Biographical journalist Spencer Tracy ( as Steve O'Malley ) decides to write a story about Forrest's life ; but , the prospective " Keeper of the Flame " finds it difficult to interview beautiful Forrest widow Katharine Hepburn ( as Christine ) . And , the people closest to the deceased accident victim are mysteriously uncooperative . What are they hiding ? Tracy and Hepburn , under George Cukor's moody direction , are great fun to watch . Mr . Cukor and photographer William Daniels are especially Garbo-like when introducing Hepburn's character . Still , it's Tracy who holds everything together . The revelation about " Robert Forrest " was unexpected ( to me , anyway ) ; it was nice to see a film show the American belief system is based on ideas and truths rather than mindless patriotism . The film should have been better . First , the movie's main " romantic " relationship seems to occur too suddenly ; certainly , the film's stars were capable of portraying a man and woman falling in love . Also , what did the Forrests ' do ? It's hinted , once , that " Christine " may have been an actress ( believable ) ; but , what office did her husband hold ( if any ) ? Of the supporting cast , Margaret Wycherly seems truest , as the dead hero's " invalid " mother ; a couple of the other players become more grating than effective , after a good first impression .
There Were Snakes in the Jungle	Sabu ( as Mowgli ) is raised by wolves after his father is killed in the jungles of India . After a dozen or so years as an " animal " , he encounters a village of humans . The village includes his natural mother Rosemary DeCamp ( as Messua ) , who coincidently takes him in , and teaches him to speak English . But , adjusting to human life is difficult . Sabu discovers humans are a mixed bag ? Beautiful color photography is the highlight of " Jungle Book " . Additionally , the performance of Sabu is certainly intense ; his eyes , in introductory scenes , really seem like the eyes of someone raised by wolves ! Storyteller Joseph Calleia ( as Buldeo ) is charming . This is , however , a very lethargic movie . I expected to like the " village " scenes , but was surprised to favor the non-talking jungle scenes . Okay , GIANT English speaking SNAKES are exempt from the previous sentence . I did like the pursuit of the ordinary non-speaking tiger . Admittedly , I'm not a " Jungle Book " movie fan , but I do recall seeing another version ; and , this one is better . . . Jungle Book ( 1942 ) Zoltan Korda - Sabu , Joseph Calleia , Rosemary DeCamp
Goo Goo Ga Ga ( Their Blessed Event )	At first , I was hoping " Father's Little Dividend " was going to be about Joan Bennett's character becoming pregnant ; then , Spencer Tracy dealing with a new baby of his own ! In the beginning of the film , Mr . Tracy shows some very amorous interest / contact with Ms . Bennett ; and , she certainly looks young enough to be pregnant . I guess Tracy and Bennett were being " careful " ; because , all too predictably , Elizabeth Taylor becomes the expectant . I see the " middle class " Banks ' still employ their maid " Delilah " ; despite their worries about money , they didn't have to " let her go " after the wedding bills rang . . . This is a pleasant enough sequel , but having " the stork " visit Bennett & Tracy , instead of Taylor & Taylor , might have made " Father's Little Dividend " ( 1951 ) even better than the original " Father of the Bride " ( 1950 ) . Father's Little Dividend ( 1951 ) Vincente Minnelli - Spencer Tracy , Joan Bennett , Elizabeth Taylor
Something Is Rotten in Denmark	Obviously intended to frighten , director William Castle's psycho trip , instead , amuses . Joan Marshall ( as Emily ) ' s homicidal performance may be unconvincing on a technical level ; but , she performs it endearingly , and with a straight face . Glenn Corbett ( as Karl ) and Patricia Breslin ( as Miriam ) are an attractive vis a vis . And , Eugenie Leontovich ( as Helga ) is a " knock-out " ( note : stroke victims may want to see what else is on ) . Don't miss the beginning , when Ms . Marshall propositions handsome bellhop Richard Rust for marriage , but not sex , then loses control on her wedding day . Also , enjoy Burnett Guffey's photography . " Homicidal " screams out for a TV-movie or home video remake , with the " fight break " replaced by a " bathroom break " . Homicidal ( 1961 ) William Castle - Joan Marshall , Glenn Corbett , Patricia Breslin
I Think World War II Just Farted	Michael Bay's " Pearl Harbor " is terrific , explosive , exciting , and technically well-made . John Schwartzman's photography , and the film's effects , are outstanding ; and , many of the supporting performances would have been exceptional , in a better story . Unfortunately , this film is far too long , and focuses on a the lamest possible retelling of the eternal " love triangle " during a war setting . The film's length is not justifiable . First of all , the Japanese segments are pointless ; since there is no attempt to portray them accurately , or with substance , they should have remained in the shadows . Secondly , the underused supporting cast's stories are even not worthy of inclusion . For example , Cuba Gooding Jr . appears to receive a medal , due to his race , apparently . And , Jon Voight appears to do his Franklin D . Roosevelt impression . But , Winston Churchill and Adolf Hitler appear as themselves . So , wasn't the real Roosevelt good enough ? Ben Affleck ( as Rafe McCawley ) , Josh Hartnett ( as Danny Walker ) , and Kate Beckinsale ( as Evelyn Johnson ) make up the starring threesome ; and , they are earnest and attractive , playing out the storyline like they were acting in an old movie . Still , there really isn't anything to this trio ; compare them , for starters , with the extraordinary characterizations in the silent " Wings " ( 1927 ) . Then , see " From Here to Eternity " ( 1953 ) . Either of those film's stories would have been preferable to this non-smoking " Pearl Harbor " . It's all so obviously contrived and predictable ; and , with such good production values , a certain level of disappointment is assured . Pearl Harbor ( 2001 ) Michael Bay - Ben Affleck , Josh Hartnett , Kate Beckinsale
How to Win Friends and Influence People ( Not )	Catherine Keener ( as Amelia ) spends the opening scenes putting down everyone in her life . She doesn't like best friend Anne Heche ( as Laura ) ' s engagement ring . She calls video store geek Kevin Corrigan ( as Bill ) , who wants to date her , " The Ugly Guy " . She repeatedly calls ex-boyfriend-turned-friend Liev Schreiber ( as Andrew ) an ass - - - - , for enjoying telephone sex . Her cat has cancer . And , her kitchen sponge stinks . Intriguing character study , from writer / director Nicole Holofcener . Ms . Keener's " Amelia " seems to have a lot going for her ; she is funny and attractive , and , she manages to keep friendships while being excessively judgmental . Things may have started going wrong for her when roommate Heche moved in with boyfriend Todd Field ( as Frank ) . Mr . Field becomes another supportive friend , however . Although Keener is cranky throughout , she eventually proves to be an interesting , supportive friend . The performances are all terrific . Mr . Corrigan may be most memorable , as the horror movie geek Keener labels " The Ugly Guy " ; watch for an outstanding scene as he overhears a message on Keener telephone answering machine . Some back-hair might have helped him look more ugly , though . Then , again , hairier Rafael Alvarez does seem prove excessive hair isn't so ugly . Wonderfully ironic to see Randall Batinkoff ( as Peter ) play a waiter so well , and an actor so poorly . " Walking and Talking " manages to be a story about meaningful friendship without being terribly meaningful . Walking and Talking ( 1996 ) Nicole Holofcener - Catherine Keener , Anne Heche , Kevin Corrigan
Frankie and Annette Catch a Wave	It's a colorful southern California summer of 1963 . Swinging surfer Frankie Avalon ( as Frankie ) takes beautiful girlfriend Annette Funicello ( as Dolores ) to a beach shack for some house playing ; but , the couple's teenage friends have already crashed the place . Soon , the fit young vacationers are in their tight swimsuits - - singing , dancing , and romancing in the sand . They don't know it ( yet ) , but anthropologist Robert Cummings ( as Professor Sutwell ) is peeping through his binoculars at the teenagers ' " mating habits " ; he and secretary Dorothy Malone ( as Marianne ) have arrived to study the sex lives of the younger set . The characters meet at Morey Amsterdam ( as Cappy ) ' s beer joint , where Ms . Funicello develops interest in Mr . Cummings , after Mr . Avalon gets lewd with waitress Eva Six ( as Ava ) . Harvey Lembeck ( as Eric Von Zipper ) and his motorcycle gang are around to cause even more friction , until Cummings gives " Zipper " the finger . Director William Asher's first " Beach Party " is , while it doesn't contain the best writing of the series , a cut above the other films . The performances , led by Avalon and Funicello , are fresh and natural . Subsequent films , while they boast some individually entertaining elements , lack the spontaneity herein . There are also , you'll notice , details " toned down " over the course of the series . In this " Beach Party " , bathing suits and camera angles seem tighter , and sexier , than usual . The music is perfect ; appropriately , they chose Dick Dale and his Del-Tones to perform songs written by Gary Usher and Roger Christian . Funicello's double-tracked " Treat Him Nicely " ( by Hemric-Styner ) and Avalon's lascivious " Don't Stop Now " ( by Marcucci-Faith ) were great single songs , and should have been bigger hits . Where else are you going to find Annette Funicello , in a hot pink two-piece , exclaim " Isn't it a hooting day ! " Beach Party ( 1963 ) William Asher - Robert Cummings , Frankie Avalon , Annette Funicello
Sauerkraut in Canada	One of the more interesting World War II propaganda films , due to outstanding writing ( by Emeric Pressburger ) , direction ( by Michael Powell ) , and performances . The opening credits and sequences may be confusing . The story involves six Nazis making their way from Hudson Bay ( in northeastern Canada ) to cross the " 49th Parallel " ( the United States / Canadian border ) , after their U-boat ( submarine warship ) is damaged . At the time the film was made , the U . S . would have been a " safe " ( neutral ) country . Also , the film does not " star " Leslie Howard and Lawrence Olivier - rather , the lead actor is Eric Portman ( as Hirth ) . Mr . Portman and crew do very well in their roles . The most interesting aspect of the film is that the Germans are written to include a " good " Nazi , who wavers in his support for the Fuehrer . The most satisfying of the film's loosely threaded stories involves the " good " Nazi bonding with a Canadian immigrant settlement , led by Anton Walbrook ( as Peter ) . This , and the segment with Raymond Massey ( as Andy Brock ) , is where you'll find the filmmakers delivering their most palpable ( and eloquent ) sermonettes . The film is too episodic for its own good - one story , with more focus on Portman's crew , would have sufficed . 49th Parallel ( / 41 ) Michael Powell - Eric Portman , Leslie Howard , Laurence Olivier
No Fire	Happily married Karen Black and Oliver Reed ( as Marian and Ben Rolf ) rent a beautiful , but weird , Gothic mansion for the summer . Moving in with them are young son Lee Montgomery ( as David Rolf ) and smoking Bette Davis ( as Aunt Elizabeth ) . The quartet of tenants face accidents , arguments , and ever-increasing danger . Director Dan Curtis would have been wiser to use his third theatrical film to re-tell the original " Laura the Phoenix " story from his TV series " Dark Shadows " . The title " Burnt Offerings " would have been perfect ; and , the story is vaguely compatible . With its chilling Robert Cobert music , the film tone resembles 1971 " Shadows " ; but , the plot is disjointed and somewhat confusing . There appear to be two creepy stories . One involves the House ; and , the other hints at some incident from Ben Rolf's past . The two story threads are never fully connected , and neither is explained as well as they should be . More than a little viewer analysis is required to " fill in the blanks " . Still , you get the amazing Ms . Davis , shining in a " nice old lady " role . And , Curtis favorites Ms . Black and Mr . Montgomery are also very good . Burnt Offerings ( 1976 ) Dan Curtis - Karen Black , Oliver Reed , Bette Davis
Hello , Ann-Margret !	Don't expect this to be a faithful adaptation of the stage hit , starring Dick Van Dyke ( as Albert ) , with a black-wigged Janet Leigh ( as Rosie ) attractively shouting " Ole ! " Instead , this is a showcase for the delicious Ann-Margret ( as Kim ) . Ms . Margret , with the co-operation of director George Sidney , pulls the rug out from under everyone and everything in sight . Although miscast ( " a child of fifteen " ! ) as a star-struck teenager , Ms . Margret is a delight . Watching her perform must have made moviegoers feel like star-struck teenagers . The thirtysomething ( but drafted ! ) " Elvis " - inspired Jesse Pearson ( as Conrad Birdie ) suffers , in comparison . But , so do most of the cast ? Though nowhere near as successful as it should be , " Bye Bye Birdie " is worth watching . Most of all , for Ann-Margret's breakout performance as a 1960s sex symbol . The production number " A Lot of Living to Do " ( perhaps inspired by Presley's similarly titled " Loving You " tune ) easily goes to the head of the class - with Ann-Margret , Bobby Rydell ( as Hugo ) , and troupe performing admirably and energetically . Ironically , Mr . Rydell is successfully cast . In " real life " , Rydell was the type of " teen idol " the film was unsuccessfully satirizing . The other musical numbers are fair to middling ( the " Moscow ballet " is poor ) . You do get to see Dick Van Dyke " Put on a Happy Face " ( in his first feature film ) , and Paul Lynde's observations on " Kids ! " - but , both performers improved upon the renditions offered herein . Matronly Maureen Stapleton adds some weight to the cast . Ed Sullivan fills a flattering supporting role . All things considered , it's Ann-Margret's " really big shew " , with Rydell and the production's " kids " doing their best to help out . Bye Bye Birdie ( 1963 ) George Sidney - Ann-Margret , Dick Van Dyke , Bobby Rydell
The Memory Play's Tricks	" As teenagers , Allie ( Rachel McAdams ) and Noah ( Ryan Gosling ) begin a whirlwind courtship that soon blossoms into tender intimacy . The young couple is quickly separated by Allie's upper-class parents who insist that Noah isn't right for her . Several years pass , and , when they meet again , their passion is rekindled , forcing Allie to choose between her soul mate and class order . This beautiful tale has a particularly special meaning to an older gentleman ( James Garner ) who regularly reads the timeless love story to his aging companion ( Gena Rowlands ) , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " The Notebook " is a pretty and predictable love story . Mr . Gosling and Ms . McAdams never seemed ( to me ) like they would age into characters like those essayed by Mr . Garner and Ms . Rowlands . Many times , the younger lovers appear to be modeling , rather than playing , their roles . The older couple is more enjoyable . Garner's performance , and narration , is particularly strong . James Marsden ( as Lon Hammond ) and Joan Allen ( as Anne Hamilton ) have interesting , underdeveloped roles . ( Ms . Allen may been channeling Ellen Burstyn's " Lois Farrow " ) . The " teenage " , and later , undressing scenes are very funny . And , some of the characters ' implausible actions ( the 365 letters , for example ) could be explained as embellishments and / or enhancements made by Rowlands ' character , in her " The Story of Our Lives " account . It is interesting that the lead characters write , at different times , a prolific amount of material to be read at a later time . With the exceptions of Robert Fraisse's photography and Gosling's dirty undershirt , the film applies too much gloss . The Notebook ( 2004 ) Nick Cassavetes - Ryan Gosling , Rachel McAdams , James Garner
Mary Pickford Blows Out the Candles	In director Frank Borzage's 1924 original version of this film , the character " Mary Carlton " ( played by a matured Norma Talmadge ) looks back on her life , and its " Secrets " . For this re-make , Mary Pickford ( as Mary Marlowe ) is initially photographed to appear as young as possible . Later , Ms . Pickford is " aged " ( although , she is photographed in soft focus throughout ) . So , the entire " framing " of the film - as about an old woman looking back on the " Secrets " of her life - is lost . Moreover , the movie misses an opportunity to startle audiences by opening with an " aged " Pickford . " Secrets " is not a bad film - but , it is frustrating to look at a miscalculation , in this last career appearance for Mary Pickford . Both Pickford and Borzage should have had the storytelling wherewithal to go ahead with the " old age " framing . Borzage had success with Talmadge's version , and Pickford supported Charlotte Smith ( her mother ) in Thomas H . Ince's similarly structured " Sweet Memories " ( 1911 ) . Without the framing , the story blindly lurches , uncomfortably , through the years . Pickford surely knew audiences weren't responding well to her recent features , and likely made what she thought were wise decisions about the filming of " Secrets " . So , it is a first class production . This shows in Pickford's selection of director Borzage , photographer Ray June , and co-star Leslie Howard ( as John Carlton ) . Mr . June's photography is beautiful . Mr . Howard , a stage star close to Pickford's own age , is a smart choice for leading man . Ironically , Howard looks much younger than his years . Pickford's choice of vehicle and co-star reveal her continued belief in " stage " acting as a way to succeed in talking pictures . To her portrayal , Pickford adds some of the cutesy mannerisms which came to be expected by fans , but plagued much of her later work . These factors help mar her overall performance . Yet , watch for a stand-out scene featuring Pickford and a baby , played silently , during the film's " western " portion . Pickford and Howard would never appear on film into their 70s , which makes the ending of " Secrets " a sweet farewell . Secrets ( / 33 ) Frank Borzage - Mary Pickford , Leslie Howard , Mona Maris
From Flashback to Déjà Vu	In 1969 , peace loving hippies Eric Roberts ( as Fred ) and Cheech Marin ( as Hesus ) flee to Central America , to avoid being drafted into Vietnam War service . Why the US government believes Mr . Marin would be of any real use during warfare is never explained ; but , Mr . Roberts looks like a major Commie-killing loss . Anyway , they spend the next 20 years hiding in the jungle , smoking marijuana , and enjoying peace . Their hippie friends , Julie Hagerty ( as Petra ) and Robert Carradine ( as Sammy ) , remain behind . While in Central America , Roberts and Marin learn about a US invasion plan , and decide to return to New York , and stop the war . They are in for a rude awakening . . . In 1989 , the peace movement appears dead . Roberts and Marin try to adapt to the changes in American society . They try to re-connect with Ms . Hagerty and Mr . Carradine , who have become materialistic yuppies . How can they erase their friends ' 1980s brainwashing , avoid capture by perseverating FBI man Cliff De Young ( as Brubaker ) , and stop the war ? Aaron Russo and Neil Levy's underrated " Rude Awakening " certainly doesn't always work ; but , it's funny more often than not . Roberts and Marin are almost a satirical casting in-joke ( sixties , meet the eighties ) . One of the film's most obvious misses is that the main attempt to transcend a 20-year-gap is an unconvincing pair of pasted-on beards . Although , to answer Roberts ' later , more general question , " How's my hair ? " Great . It's impossible to hold back laughing at Marin's first meeting with the " fish " . But , they should have used Don Knotts voice . Of the four " hippie " friends , Carradine's is , performance-wise , most convincing . Check out Louise Lasser ( as Ronnie ) ' s customers ! The highlight of the film is a terrific " cocktail party " hosted by Carradine and uptight wife Cindy Williams ( as June ) . They are visited by the " Stools " , Buck Henry ( as Lloyd ) and Andrea Martin ( as April ) . A cocktail party attended by Cheech Marin , Eric Roberts , Robert Carradine , Buck Henry , Cindy Williams , and Andrea Martin is every bit as funny as it sounds . If only they could have figured out how to get Lasser there ( and the overhead mike out ) . There are enough funny moments , all around ; but , the hilarious supporting characterizations by Martin and Williams , alone , make this well worth watching . Rude Awakening ( 1989 ) Aaron Russo - Eric Roberts , Cheech Marin , Andrea Martin
Trick of the Trade	A smoking newspaper boy takes a break , to play in the street with messenger boy pal Robert Harron ( as Swifty ) . When they notice a couple of mysterious men follow a well-dressed woman , the newspaper boy decides to play " The Boy Detective " . Sure enough , the men are crooked . With help from his friend , a disguise , and ingenuity , the newspaper boy plans to foil the criminals . It's nicely photographed by G . W . Bitzer , with some good angles ; however , the camera is sometimes unsure . Wallace McCutcheon directed . Edward Dillon is notable as one of the villains ; he played Mr . Harron's father in the unfortunately lost " Bobby's Kodak " . More notable , perhaps , for Harron's supporting role ; and , the Hoboken , New Jersey location footage is beautiful .
Putting The Women in Their Place	After Norma Shearer ( as Mary ) discovers her husband is having an affair with Joan Crawford ( as Crystal ) , she learns women must not be proud . Rosalind Russell ( as Sylvia ) leads an MGM parade of supporting players - all women ; in fact , only women appear in the film ! But , don't expect a " feminist " statement from George Cukor's " The Women " . The message may waver , but it never really gets too far away from putting women in their place . If the film is about anything other than being faithful and subservient to your man , it's about gossip . It could have been titled " Gossip " . What's appealing about " The Women " is enjoying some of its fine , albeit dated , dialog and situations . There are scores of actresses to watch ; Ms . Shearer and Ms . Russell come off best , but appreciators of any will like their favorites . Ms . Crawford likes to smoke in her bathtub . The film's fun is severely weakened by an extremely distracting interlude - the " Fashion Show " - which is presented in COLOR . " Gimmicks " like the color segment and the all female cast ruin " The Women " ; and , the acceptance of a " double standard " for men and women is presented as part of a great woman's character . The Women ( 1939 ) George Cukor - Norma Shearer , Joan Crawford , Rosalind Russell
Let There Be L7	In the old west , home-seeker William S . Hart ( as Ben Trego ) finds a dreamy spot to build , for himself and his twin boys . Unfortunately , there are savage Indians ( aka Native Americans ) around ; obviously , they haven't studied " manifest destiny " . To protect his motherless sons from Indians , Mr . Hart blows himself up . Although Hart's pioneer-man is eventually memorialized ( " Trego County " , " Trego Valley " ) ; his twins are separated , after being sent to an orphanage . They grow up to be William S . Hart ( in two additional roles , as Bill Brand and Paul Marsden ) . Hart as " Bill Brand " is a rancher ; he is affectingly called " Three Word Brand " , due to his economy with words . Hart as " Paul Marsden " is the newly elected Governor of Utah . Rancher Hart and partner S . J . Bingham ( as George Barton ) find the " L7 " ranch threatened by nasty neighbor Gordon Russell ( as Bull Yeates ) . Mr . Russell frames Mr . Bingham for murder ; and plots to take the " L7 " from Hart . Russell's lovely young sister , Jan Novak ( as Ethel Barton ) , is Hart's romantic interest . It's nice to see Hart in a dual role ( not counting his fatherly introduction ) ; however , " Three Word Brand " doesn't really take advantage of its dramatic possibilities . Hart's characterizations are surprisingly one-dimensional for an actor who played " good / bad " duality so memorably ; but , the script doesn't offer him much opportunity . Hart's highlights occurs later in the film , when his simple Rancher twin ( " Brand " ) impersonates the more sophisticated Governor twin ( " Marsden " ) . It's nicely photographed , and mostly enjoyable , despite a certain lack of excitement .
Return to Sender !	Loretta Young acts up a storm as a woman ( Ellen ) married to a terminally ill man ( George ) who believes she is planning to murder him . Husband Barry Sullivan composes a letter to the District Attorney , explaining how exactly Young will commit the murder ? The film is a showcase for Young , and she delivers a fine performance . The story , however , is very hard to accept . There are many things happening on the screen which needed to be more fully explained . For starters , the husband's illnesses - how does his heart condition affect his mind as manifested on screen ? Then , there are several actions Young takes which do not seem to be the choices most level-headed thinking individuals would take . So , maybe she's not exactly a level-headed thinking individual ? Cause for Alarm ! ( 1951 ) Tay Garnett - Loretta Young , Barry Sullivan , Bruce Cowling
Love Is Blind	Appropriately subtitled " Love and Sacrifice " , director D . W . Griffith's fictionalized account of revolutionary " America " should have been more successful , given the obvious costly effort in evidence ; it is weighted down by lack of imagination , and a significantly unsuitable performance from the leading actress . Still , it offers many worthwhile scenes ; and , some legendary scenes are brought beautifully to life . Griffith gentlemanly reveals prejudices early , explaining , " The story of the sacrifice made for freedom in the American Revolution is that of a civil war between two groups of English people ; one group , the Americans , being merely Englishmen who settled on the American Continent . " Moreover , Griffith asserts , " The government which Canada and Australia now enjoy was absolutely denied to America through the stubborn and false ideals of the autocratic powers guiding the hand of King George the Third . " During the running time , Griffith uses Royalist Walter Butler to represent the evil on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean . Were it not for Mr . Butler , the Revolution might have been settled amicability ! Not as despicable a thesis as presented Griffith's similarly plotted Civil War epic , but neither is " America " as excitingly presented as " The Birth of a Nation " . And , try as they might , Neil Hamilton ( as Nathan Holden ) and Carol Dempster ( as Nancy Montague ) are not Robert Harron and Lillian Gish in " Hearts of the World " . Griffith's epics are much more convincing with when characterizations and relationships are well presented . Mr . Hamilton , as the poor young New Englander , has no rapport with Ms . Dempster . And , as the Virginia belle , Dempster is wrongly directed . Compare Dempster / Hamilton with Gish / Harron in " Hearts of the World " . Or , even better , with Gish / Harron in " A Romance of Happy Valley " . The later film shows how well Ms . Gish and Mr . Harron played the " bedroom window " scene which Griffith re-visits in " America " . Hamilton , a promising actor , had a great career highlight , later , as " Commissioner Gordon " of " Batman " in the 1960s ; but , ribald Lionel Barrymore ( as Butler ) steals the acting honors . Griffith used his stars better in the forthcoming " Isn't Life Wonderful ? "
The Legionnaire Who Killed	" Two French Foreign Legionnaires are lost amid the shifting sands of the Sarah Dessert when they stumble across the entrance to an underground world . Searching this new found subterranean passage , our heroes are surprised to find the lost city of Atlantis . Ruling over this fantastic underworld realm , an evil queen sets her sights upon these strangers to her kingdom , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . To begin , Legionnaire John Stuart ( as André de Saint-Avit ) responds to modern speculation about the lost city of Atlantis by proclaiming he and partner Gustav Diessl ( as Jean Morhange ) actually visited the legendary city . A flashback recounts the men being kidnapped , and brought to Atlantis ; it is still in existence , a labyrinth beneath the Sarah Desert . Beautiful and bewitching Brigitte Helm ( as Antinea ) is the city's ruler ; descended from ancient queens , she has an insect-like agenda for the men caught in her web . Extraordinarily directed ( by G . W . Pabst ) and photographed ( by Eugen Schüfftan and Ernst Körner ) , " The Mistress of Atlantis " offers a lot of eye-appeal ; but its storyline suffers considerably , in comparison . Searching for information on Pierre Benoit's original novel , " L'Atlantide " , will uncover the sexuality buried in the mix . Ms . Helm and Mathias Wieman ( as Ivar Torstenson ) heat things up a little , however . " Die Herrin von Atlantis " ( 1932 ) , the German version , must be considered definitive . The Mistress of Atlantis ( 1932 ) G . W . Pabst - John Stuart , Brigitte Helm , Mathias Wieman
Poor Little Fool	Big hair-pieced Brad Pitt ( as Johnny Suede ) moves to a large American city , from North Dakota ; he wants to become a Big pop music star . He has everything except " Black Suede Shoes " . One evening , he discovers a woman being roughed up in an alley / alcove . While in a nearby phone booth , calling for help , Pitt is practically hit over the head with his blessed " Black Suede Shoes " . Then , he feels he is on his way . Pitt is hampered by an underwhelming singing voice , and poor material ; but , due to his muscular good looks , he is successful with women . Pitt has several sexy underwear scenes ; and , he slips under the sheets with quirky Catherine Keener ( as Yvonne ) and alluring Alison Moir ( as Darlette ) . Pitt idolizes Ricky Nelson ( who certainly would have gotten a kick out of this movie ) . For the record , the most frequently played song , Rick Nelson's " Teen Age Idol " could not have been turned over to play " Travelin ' Man " , as Pitt does in an effective scene with Ms . Moir . The two Nelson hits were on different Imperial singles . The record album hanging on Pitt's apartment wall is the excellent " Ricky Sings Again " album . " Midtown " is the best of the " original " tunes ; it has some of the breezy feel evident in Nelson's early Decca material . Moir , Ms . Keener , and Calvin Levels ( as Deke ) perform very well . Keener won an " Independent Spirit Award " ; but , Moir and Mr . Leeds are also very impressive . Tempting Tina Louise ( as Mrs . Fontaine ) , from " Gilligan's Island " , has a leggy cameo ; and , Nick Cave is a " Freak Storm " . Debuting director Tom DiCillo's " Johnny Suede " is filled with style and good intentions . Johnny Suede ( 1991 ) Tom DiCillo - Brad Pitt , Catherine Keener , Calvin Levels
Lessor Unholy Three	After their underworld father is shot down , children Raymond Griffith ( as Roy Donovan ) and Priscilla Dean ( as Sylvia Donovan ) are brought up believing each other is dead ; they are separated , and raised , by other criminals . Wallace Beery ( as Bill Hawkes ) , the " Stool Pidgeon " who played a part in her father's death , raises Ms . Dean to be an accomplished London pickpocket . Meanwhile , enterprising Mr . Griffith scams pawns as " The Mechanical Chess-player " . Mr . Beery , who calls himself " Count Donelli " invites Griffith to join himself and Dean . Soon , the unholy trio travel to New York's Fifth Avenue ; there , they plan their biggest heist . Tod Browning's " White Tiger " is entertainingly performed , and directed . Later in the running time , Matt Moore ( as Richard Longworth ) makes the troupe a fine acting quartet . The story situation requires too great a suspension of disbelief , however . You'll may wonder why Griffith and Dean don't dope things out sooner ( just for starters ) . The " White Tiger " referred to in the title is , by the way , the criminal element that lives in the heart of the unholy criminal : " Fawning and hating the strong , ready to ravage the weak , faithless ? suspicious ? cruel and savage , fearing no God ? trusting no man ? that's White Tiger in the heart of the crook ! "
A Lucky Strike	Elvis Presley plays a singing race car driver hotly pursuing swimming instructor Ann-Margret . She's a singer , too ; and , they make beautiful music in Las Vegas . Can Elvis win both Ann-Margret and the " Big Race " ? Beautifully choreographed and directed , " Viva Las Vegas " is one of the best Elvis movies . The " Elvis Presley Movie Formula " is well-represented . His performance is confident and relaxed . He has a co-star of worth in Ann-Margret ; clearly , they enhance each other's performance . The title song is classic , heading up an extraordinary " Viva Las Vegas " soundtrack . You can see the studio spent some more money on this production . The movie lacks a complimentary , well-constructed story ; but , the filmmakers were , probably , not aware they had a potential classic . Viva Las Vegas ( / 64 ) George Sidney - Elvis Presley , Ann-Margret , Cesare Danova
Chivalry Is Not Dead	The first ten minutes , or thereabouts , of Martin Campbell's " Vertical Limit " are very engrossing . You get the feeling you're about to see one terrific movie . Now , there are many more great minutes to be enjoyed ; but , the story never gets any further off the ground . The opening introduces the film's leading man and woman , handsome Chris O'Donnell ( as Peter Garrett ) and winsome sister Robin Tunney ( as Annie Garrett ) . A mountain climbing mishap results in the death of their father . The story would have worked better if quickly expiring father Stuart Wilson ( as Royce Garrett ) had persuaded Ms . Tunney to " cut the rope " , and save Mr . O'Donnell . This would have matched their later career choices ; note , survivalist Tunney continues mountain climbing , while brother O'Donnell becomes a photographer . The gender reversal would have given an otherwise painfully ordinary script some real distinction , and it matches up with later events well . Still , you have a lot of excellent visual effects ; and , extraordinary photography and location shooting by Mr . Campbell , with cinematographer David Tattersall . The film is set in New Zealand ( as Pakistan ) . Immoral billionaire Bill Paxton ( as Elliot Vaughn ) and vengeful veteran Scott Glenn ( Montgomery Wick ) try to give the story some weight . The " K2 " mountain is a central , inanimate " character " ; but , like the humans , it is underdeveloped . " Vertical Limit " is not Chekhov , and it's not Melville ? but it's okay . Vertical Limit ( 2000 ) Martin Campbell - Chris O'Donnell , Robin Tunney , Bill Paxton
In Need of a Milk Bath .	Barbara Stanwyck ( as Lora Hart ) is a hard-boiled nursing student who dates bootlegger Ben Lyon ( as Mortie ) while occasionally sharing a bed with gum-chewing chum Joan Blondell ( as Maloney ) . Upon graduation , Ms . Stanwyck gets a job as " Night Nurse " to a pair of plump looking children ; she suspects the well fed looking kids are being starved to death , possibly by their drunken mother's gangster lover Clark Gable ( as Nick , the chauffeur ) . Soon , Stanwyck is in great danger ? Delightfully lurid melodrama , with star Stanwyck in fine form ( she and Blondell are seen are often shown undressing , by the way ) . Full of things they couldn't do , say , or show in movies after the Hays Production Code began enforcing its standards on all motion pictures released on or after July 1 , 1934 . Today , it's a fun William A . Wellman directed film .
Fill in the Blanks	English cousins Dustin Farnum ( as Jim ) and Monroe Salisbury ( as Henry ) are made trustees for an orphans ' fund . Mr . Salisbury has a fondness for betting on the horses , and pilfers money from the fund . For the sake of family honor , Mr . Farnum accepts responsibility for the missing funds , and sails off to America . Farnum buys a ranch , befriends the local Indians ( Native Americans ) , and feuds with wicked William Elmer ( as Cash Hawkins ) . When Salisbury dies , on the Swiss Alps , widow Winifred Kingston ( as Diana ) wants to bring Farnum home to England , but he's settled in America with Squaw Red Wing ( as Nat-u-ritch ) ? Due to its relatively long length , this is sometimes called the first feature film . It is also the noted as first feature filmed in Hollywood , California ; but , you wouldn't know it - the Farnum ranch looks like Hollywood ( check out the background ) , but the more memorable ship trek and heavy snowfall scenes can't be Hollywood ( obviously ) . It's the first film by director Cecil B . DeMille , who shows some promise ( in hindsight ) . There are no great performances ; Dustin Farnum was an important stage actor , getting acquainted with film . I thought Farnum was best and most impressive in the scenes with his " half-breed " son ( who looks NOTHING like his Indian mother ) . Billy Elmer was entertaining in what should have been a larger role ( Cash Hawkins ) . I found " The Squaw Man " confusing - some of the events and relationships are like . . . " fill in the blanks " . The Indian / Englishman relationship was , perhaps , daring for an early film theme ( if you can figure out what's going on ) ; and , Ms . Wing was a real Winnebago Indian actress . The Squaw Man ( 1914 ) Cecil B . DeMille , Oscar Apfel - Dustin Farnum , Red Wing , William Elmer
Speak of Angels and Hear Their Wings	Idealistic Montgomery Clift ( as John Shawnessy ) is distracted by buxom Southern belle Elizabeth Taylor ( as Susanna Drake ) , and marries her instead of pretty sweetheart Eva Marie Saint ( as Nell Gaither ) . Life with Ms . Taylor proves to be a cursed existence , so Mr . Clift takes refuge as a Union soldier , after the United States Civil War breaks out . Of course , Clift is on the winning side of the war - but , his personal search for happiness , in an Eden called " Raintree County " , is a more difficult path to manage . . . Clearly , MGM was hoping for something approaching " Gone with the Wind " - and , they failed . However , " Raintree County " is not so bad , when viewed without the comparative eye . The big budget production values are beautiful ; the obvious expense , and the cast , helps maintain interest in the relatively weak storyline . And , it does get better , as the starring triad ( Clift , Taylor , and Saint ) slowly draw you into their lives . Viewing will require some degree of commitment , though ; it's a long movie . Early in the filming , Clift left a visit with friends at Taylor's home , and drove his car into a telephone pole . He nearly died , and his facial " reconstruction " is obvious throughout most of " Raintree County " . Clift's performance is uneven , also - but , he was too good an actor to be completely derailed . And , Clift is better than you might have heard . Also , he , does not look as bad as many have claimed . The eventual toll on his " looks " was mainly taken by a growing dependence on alcohol and painkillers . Taylor , who is credited with saving Clift's life , shows some of the sparkle that would quickly make her one of the best actresses in the business , especially during the film's second half . Nigel Patrick , Lee Marvin , Rod Taylor , and Agnes Moorehead head up a strong supporting cast . Robert Surtees ' savory cinematography is noteworthy . And , Nat King Cole sings the Johnny Green title song , a minor hit , very sweetly . Raintree County ( 1957 ) Edward Dmytryk - Montgomery Clift , Elizabeth Taylor , Eva Marie Saint
Lucky Strikes	Friendless Mae Marsh has been left , as a baby , at " The Clarissa Parker Orphanage " , on Friday the thirteenth . Due to the superstitions associated with the date , she becomes known as " Hoodoo Ann " . Still , she " lives in sweet unconsciousness of her unhappy lot . " Young artist Robert Harron ( as James Vance ) lives in the same town , on Peaceful Street . One day , Ms . Marsh steals Mildred Harris ( as Goldie ) ' s doll , which seems to trigger some " hoodoo " ( bad luck ) in the form of a fire ; actually , the fire is caused by stepping on matches . Obviously , they are the self-striking kind of matches . Although Marsh hides the doll under a dirty mop , it cleans up well . The fire sequence is well done ; and Marsh becomes a heroine . This leads to her eventual adoption . After riding in a very cool looking early 1900s Ford automobile , Marsh is taken in by a kindly couple . " You are going to stay here and be our little girl , " they explain , dressing her in a very funny looking outfit . Marsh gratefully begins to scrub chairs . As luck would have it , Marsh discovers Mr . Harron is her new neighbor , and they begin to date . Harron takes Marsh to see a western move , which they enjoy ; oddly , the other members of the audience seem bored . Then , a shooting incident makes Marsh think her " hoodoo " has returned ? The director of record is Lloyd Ingraham ; but , it's a safe bet D . W . Griffith , who also wrote the scenario , helped out behind the camera . The story is rather absurd ; it's difficult to accept the legend of " hoodoo " based on Marsh's arrival date , and the superstitious palm-reading of " Black Cindy " ( Madame Sul-Te-Wan ) . The cast performs well , considering ; notably , young Mildred Harris caught Charlie Chaplin's eye . The folks running that orphanage must have had a parallel place , where they kept the older boys and younger girls . Though " Hoodoo Ann " has charms , they're much better presented in Griffith's similarly-themed , and highly recommended , 1918-19 films . Hoodoo Ann ( 1916 ) Lloyd Ingraham , D . W . Griffith - Mae Marsh , Robert Harron , Mildred Harris
Julie Harris Sees Dead People	Nervous Julie Harris ( as Eleanor " Nell " Lance ) arrives to help investigate a reportedly haunted old dark house ; since she supposedly , as a child , was able to see ghosts . Also arriving are clairvoyant Claire Bloom ( as " Theo " Theodora ) , and the mansion's skeptical heir , Russ Tamblyn ( as Luke Sanderson ) . The three houseguests are led by anthropologist / parapsychologist Richard Johnson ( as John Markway ) . Mr . Johnson believes " Hill House " may definitively prove the existence of supernatural entities . Shirley Jackson's " The Haunting of Hill House " is similar to Henry James ' " Turn of the Screw " . Both are excellent psychological stories , involving the questionable participation of ghosts . This film adaptation is not as successful as 1961's " The Innocents " ( the cinematic version of " The Screw " ) . Possibly , this is due to the faithful rendering of Jackson's guilt-ridden protagonist being in " possession " of " ghosts " as a part of her psyche . " Eleanor " makes things up . So , you never see on-screen apparitions in Wise's " Haunting " . In James ' " Screw " , the ghosts seem more real ; their presence , in both works , is debated . " The Haunting " has a grand , eerie " look " , thanks to angling director Robert Wise , and Gothic photography by Davis Boulton . Ms . Bloom's subtly homosexual performance is another highlight . But , in the end , it's a long , underdeveloped , and relatively spook-free melodrama . The Haunting ( 1963 ) Robert Wise - Julie Harris , Claire Bloom , Russ Tamblyn
Cornering the Market	Early film of " social relevance " directed by D . W . Griffith . It's a little difficult to follow - apparently , Mr . Griffith is showing the contrast between the wealthy " Wheat King " ( played by Frank Powell ) and the poor " Farmer " ( played by James Kirkwood ) . The farmer does the manual work , laboring in the fields . The wealth businessman reaps the profits , in luxury . In the film , Mr . Powell's character becomes more and more greedy , making the price of goods so high the poor farmers can't afford the goods they helped create . Of the supporting players , Henry B . Walthall is most impressive as Kirkwood's associate . Griffith mixes location and set nicely . Watch the wicked " Wheat King " meet a pitiful , ironic end in the " Corner in Wheat " . A Corner in Wheat ( 1909 ) D . W . Griffith - Frank Powell , James Kirkwood , Henry B . Walthall
Frank Lloyd Raises the Dickens with William Farnum	Frank Lloyd's silent version of Charles Dickens ' " A Tale of Two Cities " may make you wonder why D . W . Griffith didn't direct his own version of the classic ( not that he didn't come close , on a few occasions ) . Mr . Lloyd's Griffith-like direction is a plus ; though , it's somehow not as good as the original . William Farnum , who was one of the leading actors of the teens , does a fine job in the leading role ; seeing Mr . Farnum play both as reluctant French nobleman " Charles Darnay " and English alcoholic lawyer " Sydney Carton " is , today , the main attraction . While filled with decent performances , the more famous sound re-makes lose something by casting different men in the lead roles . Beautiful Jewel Carmen has no trouble attracting both men , as " Lucie Manette " . And , Florence Vidor ( King's wife ) sews up stardom on the way to the guillotine . " A Tale of Two Cities " was considered a top production in its time , but it doesn't possess the timeless quality you'll find in many other silent movies . A Tale of Two Cities ( / 17 ) Frank Lloyd - William Farnum , Jewel Carmen , Charles Clary
Ruth Chatterton's Life Is a Carnival	Ruth Chatterton ( as Lilly Turner ) impulsively marries handsome actor Gordon Westcott ( as Rex Durkee ) . Soon , Ms . Chatterton learns Mr . Westcott is a two-timer , who can't keep a job . Additionally , Westcott beats up Chatterton's pal Frank McHugh ( as Dave Dixon ) , who shows a fondness for alcohol . When Westcott's previous wife makes a surprise appearance , Chatterton learns he is a bigamist ; but , Westcott has taken off for parts unknown . Chatterton , left pregnant , accepts Mr . McHugh's marriage proposal ; and , the two try to make ends meet as carnival workers . Then , Chatterton falls for down-on-his-luck engineer George Brent ( as Bob Chandler ) , who soon replaces carnival strongman Robert Barrat ( as Fritz ) . Mr . Barrat has gone insane with love for Chatterton ; and , she is torn between her love for Mr . Brent and her loyalty for McHugh ? Less than spectacular , but competent , star vehicle for superstar Chatterton , ably directed by William A . Wellman . During this film , Brent and Chatterton were real-life husband and wife . Brent co-starred with the most popular actresses of the time ; though , he oftentimes comes across as rather ordinary , but is most appealing opposite Chatterton . McHugh gives an excellent supporting performance as Chatterton's alcoholic friend . Guy Kibbee and Marjorie Gateson are also highly watchable , as the amorous McGills . Lilly Turner ( 1933 ) William A . Wellman - Ruth Chatterton , George Brent , Frank McHugh
Bobby Jordan Hits a Homer	During a game of street baseball , angelic slugger Bobby Jordan ( as Danny Stevens ) scores a hit by capturing dangerous bank robber Max Rosenbloom ( as Butch Brocalli ) . Young Mr . Jordan secretly plans to spend the $200 reward money on new baseball uniforms for " The East Side Kids " . But , leader Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs McGinnis ) wants the money to be split seven ways , with fellow club-mates Stanley Clements ( as Stash ) , Huntz Hall ( as Glimpy ) , Bobby Stone ( as Skinny ) , Ernest Morrison ( as Scruno ) , and David Gorcey ( as Peewee ) . Misunderstandings put Jordan at odds with his former pals . And , bad becomes worse when former " East Side Kid " Gabriel Dell ( as Hank Salko ) returns , to warn the gang that Mr . Rosenbloom is out of prison , and prowling for Jordan . . . " Smart Alecks " uses its cast well . The film's line-up of performers is a classic , and the storyline is a good representation of this particular Bowery boy era . " Introducing Stanley ' Stash ' Clements " leads the credits ; a good addition to the team , Mr . Clements looks very much like he was brought in as a possible replacement for one of the Gorcey brothers ( which is more precisely what happened , in 1956 ) . And , Jordan's pretty sister Gale Storm ( as Ruth Stevens ) is a treat . Smart Alecks ( / 42 ) Wallace Fox - Bobby Jordan , Leo Gorcey , Stanley Clements
or , What They Won't	In William Shakespeare's " Twelfth Night " ( or , " What You Will " ) , brother and sister twins " Viola " and " Sebastian " are shipwrecked off the shores of " Illyria " . " Viola " mistakenly thinks brother " Sebastian " has drowned . She goes to " Illyria " alone ; and , she assumes the identity of a young man , " Cesario " . In " Illyria " , " Cesario " ( " Viola " ) gets a job as gentleman ( dresser ) for the duke " Orsino " . Male ( female ) " Cesario " ( " Viola " ) falls in love with ( male ) " Orsino " . But , he loves another woman , " Olivia " . Meanwhile , " Olivia " falls in love with the female twin " Cesario " ( " Viola " ) , thinking she is a male . Then , real male twin " Sebastian " returns , undead ! Then , all's well that ends well . The supporting characters in director Trevor Nunn's cinematic version are all right ( actually , they come off better , due to the overall execution of the film ) . But , mainly , it's about Imogen Stubbs ( as Viola aka Cesario ) , and her interaction with Toby Stephens ( as Orsino ) and Helena Bonham Carter ( as Olivia ) . This " Twelfth Night " is very well produced . It seems much more dramatic than comic , which is most obvious in the tone-setting opening . The supporting characters and subplots retain the more comic flavor , though . This portends a promising adaptation . But , the film doesn't really end up as you like it . Ms . Stubbs becomes an endearing " Viola " . Both Stubbs and Mr . Stephens , and Stubbs and Ms . Bonham Carter are fun to watch " fall in love " . The sexual dynamics work ; interestingly , each of the performers add some subtleties . Film , of course , picks up its own ( different than stage ) nuances . The already shaky premise falls apart , however , when " Sebastian " returns ; and , the performers lose credibility very quickly . Originally , a male would more convincingly play BOTH twins . It would have been better to have Stubbs ( or even Steven Mackintosh ) play both roles . This film points in the right direction ; but , next time , either go all the way , or leave " Twelfth Night " on the stage . Twelfth Night ( 1996 ) Trevor Nunn - Imogen Stubbs , Toby Stephens , Helena Bonham Carter
The Devil Is Loose Again !	" The investigation into the mysterious death of an aging Nazi war criminal hunter brings a surprising revelation to the cop working on the case . It appears the old man was actually following an individual with ties to the Nazis , who seems to have not aged in appearance in spite of the passage of over 30 ( sic ) years . The policeman and some other individuals decide to track down the mysterious individual to find out his horrifying secret , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . The appropriately named Faith Clift ( as Dr . Claire Hansen ) and atheist writer husband Richard " Charles " Moll ( as James Hanson ) go to sinful Las Vegas to see the shows and promote Mr . Moll's book " God Is Dead " . Ms . Clift is troubled by nightmarish dreams about Nazis . Meanwhile , Marc Lawrence ( as Abraham Weiss ) , a blathering Jew , has traced Nazi war criminal Robert Bristol ( as Mr . Olivier ) to Vegas ; and , he reports the finding to police lieutenant Cameron Mitchell ( as Sterne ) . At first , Mr . Mitchell won't believe old Mr . Lawrence , because young Mr . Bristol hasn't aged in 35 years . " Cataclysm " ( aka " Satan's Supper " aka " The Nightmare Never Ends " ) is a classic " so-bad-it's-good " film . Although others try , nobody in the cast can best Clift's supremely awful performance ; her effort is astonishing . Also , watch Mitchell ( " High Chaparral " ) defeat Moll ( " Night Court " ) for best artificial hair . Bristol is delightfully devilish ; it's too bad he , Maurice Grandmaison ( as Papini ) , Klint Stevenson ( as Jim ) , and Christie Wagner ( as Ann ) have so few screen credits ; their characterizations are perfect . Films like this hardly ever have good endings ; admittedly , it's truly difficult to appropriately end a story as bad as this one - - but writer Philip Yordan and company come up with a real winner ; it may make you want to click your heels ? or hooves , as the case may be . See it with an open heart , or liver ?
Cheers for the Victor	Congenital swashbuckler Conrad Veidt ( as Gil de Berault ) can't keep his sword in its sheath , despite a law against dueling ; so , he is sentenced to death . Mr . Veidt receives an offer of exoneration from ruthless and powerful Raymond Massey ( as Cardinal Richelieu ) ; but , he must first capture Mr . Massey's enemy , a revolutionary Duke . Veidt manages to install himself as a guest in the Duke's castle , with its master away . While waiting for his prey to return , Veidt becomes smitten with the Duke's sister , Annabella ( as Lady Marguerite ) . Notable as Victor Sjöström final film as director ; and , the direction of " Under the Red Robe " is certainly a highlight . The performances of the three leads are also excellent , intensified by Mr . Sjöström , a master filmmaker . Unfortunately , this re-make of a 1923 swashbuckling silent doesn't offer very much action , which doesn't help its already slow-moving story . Romney Brent ( as Marius ) contrasts the intense lead performances , as Veidt's light-heeled lackey . Under the Red Robe ( / 37 ) Victor Sjöström - Conrad Veidt , Annabella , Raymond Massey
When Bad Things Happen to Bad People	Director Clint Eastwood's " Mystic River " is a well-performed , but ugly and disturbing film . When it opens , the characters who grow up to be Sean Penn ( as Jimmy Markum ) , Tim Robbins ( as Dave Boyle ) , and Kevin Bacon ( as Sean Devine ) are pre-teenage boys . Young " Dave " is abducted , after the three play hockey on a Massachusetts street . First of all , the actors playing young " Jimmy " ( Jason Kelly ) and " Sean " ( Connor Paolo ) seem to be reversed ; possibly , this is because Mr . Bacon's character's name is also Mr . Penn's first name ? Secondly , the confusing abduction is of a sexual nature ; later , when the story temporarily becomes an intriguing drama , this is clarified . By the third act , the film has fallen apart . Mystic River ( 2003 ) Clint Eastwood - Sean Penn , Tim Robbins , Kevin Bacon
An Untold Tale of Frankenstein	" Dr . Frankenstein has recreated his creature , but wishes to correct his previous mistake . He wishes to prevent his creation from any further murderous rampages by placing the brain of a good man inside the skull of the monster . The arrival of a woman and her terminally ill husband offer the doctor an opportunity to try his new theory , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Anton Diffring ( as Baron Von Frankenstein ) is an extremely enjoyable and effective leading man . If this is , indeed , the pilot for an unsold television series , it's difficult to understand how they were going to come up with the nearly 40 per season story ideas . As a short movie , writer / director Curt Siodmak does surprisingly well in this format , creating a " new " story to work within the existing " Frankenstein " mythos ; and , it's much better than the average 1958 half hour teleplay . Tales of Frankenstein ( 1958 ) Curt Siodmak - Anton Diffring Helen Westcott , Don Megowan
Eating In	" A college student returns to her dorm room after class and discovers she is the winner of an all-expense paid vacation to the Red Wolf Inn . Before she can share her good fortune with her parents , she and two other girls are whisked away to begin their vacation of a lifetime . When one of the guests suddenly disappears , the young woman doesn't believe the explanation the old couple who run the inn gives her concerning the strange goings on at the Red Wolf , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Offering a delicious slice of low-budget horror cheese ; director Bud Townsend and writer Allen Actor , along with a wonderful cast , should absolutely exceed your expectations . There are some flaws , and unanswered questions - - like , what happened to Myrtle ? - - but , " Terror House " is too fun to pass up . Linda Gillen ( as Regina McKee ) plays a sweet , adorable lead character ; and , doesn't she have a great arrangement of The Beatles ' " White Album " photos on her dorm wall ? John Neilson ( as " Baby " John Smith ) is just as adorable , albeit touched ; love him licking his finger after going for the bottle of after dinner brandy . It's a wonder neither Ms . Gillen nor Mr . Neilson became better known ; they certainly had the hair to succeed through the 1980s . Players in tasty supporting roles include overeating Margaret Avery ( as Edwina ) , hortophile Arthur Space ( as Henry ) , and well-read Janet Wood ( as Pamela ) . But , the best of all may be marvelous " Grandma " Mary Jackson ( as Evelyn Smith ) ; her performance definitely is one to savor . Like Ms . Jackson says , " Don't be a party pooper ! " Mind your " Grandma " , and give yourself a big helping of " Terror House " . Terror House ( 1972 ) Bud Townsend - Linda Gillen , John Neilson , Mary Jackson
Take the Money and Run	Light-fingered Tippi Hedren ( as Marnie Edgar ) changes her hair color and gets secretarial jobs in order to steal from her employers . Dashing publisher Sean Connery ( as Mark Rutland ) is set to be Ms . Hedren's latest victim ; instead , he catches her red-handed . In order to stay out of the pokey , Mr . Connery insists Hedren be his wife . Then , he attempts to unravel the mystery of her : frigidity , fear of thunder , repulsion over the color red , and strange relationship with her mother ( memorably played by Louise Latham ) . Alfred Hitchcock's " Marnie " is not a bad movie ; it's just disappointing , after the director's string of classic predecessors . Many Hitchcock touches are evident ; and these , alone , make it an entertaining feature . Ms . Latham and the supporting players perform well , also . However , the leading co-stars never really make it very interesting ; and , the psychological combining of kleptomania and frigidity is a cold , loose fit . Marnie ( 1964 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Tippi Hedren , Sean Connery , Louise Latham
Tempted by the Fruit of Another	Wallace Reid ( as Anatol Spencer ) is a wealthy newlywed who is oddly attracted to various women other than his wife - specifically : Wanda Hawley ( as Emilie ) , Agnes Ayres ( as Annie ) , and Bebe Daniels ( as Satan Synne ! ) . Gloria Swanson ( as Vivian ) is the wife who seems to develop a roving eye of her own as the running time progresses . BUT , are " The Affairs of Anatol " really affairs , or just a series of titillating temptations ? DeMille's work with mirrors is on display , with the director inserting a skeleton image of Mr . Reid in one scene . Reid was a very big star when this film was released ( one of the most popular actors in the world ) ; and , though this isn't really representative , it's nice to see him . Of the leading ladies , I enjoyed Ms . Ayres over the others , because her simple scenes with Monte Blue seem so ORDINARY when contrasted with the rest of the goings-on . DeMille's unlikely mix of titillation , religiosity , and heavy-handed message is obviously in full flower . While there are no performances for the ages , the scenes with Swanson being hypnotized by Theodore Kosloff are fun . Elliott Dexter ( as Max Runyon ) is the film's best supporting actor ; keep a sharp eye on his closing scenes as he'll reveal , through his performance , the affair you might not have been expecting ? The Affairs of Anatol ( 1921 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Wallace Reid , Gloria Swanson , Bebe Daniels
Steele Away	This retains much of the " House of Usher " glow , but is too repetitive ( of the earlier film ) , and loses story focus . It's really one short story - the ending , basically , stretched way out to feature film length . I didn't like the flashbacks - with the camera lens going down to brick size ( foreshadowy , though ) . They seemed only to pad the film , and didn't expand my knowledge of character motivation . I think the script was sloppily written , with the viewer left to explain away horrific plot holes , like : Who was buried in wife's tomb ? AND - Why oh why couldn't they let Barbara Steele scream " Let Me Out ! LET ME OUT ! " at the end ? Still , more fun than not . Pit and the Pendulum ( 1961 ) Roger Corman - Vincent Price , John Kerr , Barbara Steele
Nugget Notch	Born and bred in the western United States , Joseph Girard ( as Judge Brand ) has never grown accustomed to life in the industrialized East . Mr . Girard reminisces , to young secretary Leo Pierson ( as Tom Reeves ) , about his life in the old West . In flashback , Girard loses his romantic interest to a pal , who is deserted , after two years , by the woman . Later , Girard moves to the East , to care for his ailing sister . In the present , Girard discovers the abandoned town of " Nugget Notch " ; he wants to rebuild and re-populate the town in the style of his fondly remembered West . Mr . Pierson is assigned the task . Pierson , who shares his older boss ' dream , finds a group of down-on-their-luck carnies outside San Diego : the " 49 Camp " . The ' 49-ers ' western theme is not popular with city folk ; and , they accept Pierson's invitation to Nugget Notch . So , Pierson joins the troupe as " Tom Robbins " ; his identity is a secret to everyone except leader William J . Dyer ( as J . Gordon Castle ) . As " Robbins " , Pierson falls for pretty Donna Drew ( as Peggy Bobbett ) . But , gentlemanly Jean Hersholt ( as Jim Raynor ) maneuvers to keep the romance from blooming ; he has knowledge about a dark secret from Ms . Drew's past . Distrusting Mr . Hersholt , Pierson writes boss Girard , who prepares his arrival ? All of the above happens within the first 25 minutes of " ' 49-'17 " ; indeed , it is a densely plotted movie . Don't miss a single title card , or you may be lost . The unusual title refers to the years 1849 and 1917 . The year 1849 refers to character Castle's troupe of " ' 49-ers " ; 1849 is the year noted as beginning the " California Gold Rush " , which also evokes the spirit of character Judge Brand's western memories . The year 1917 is , of course , the film's release year . The film would have been better off with a title like " Nugget Notch " . Ruth Ann Baldwin is more than serviceable , if less than spectacular , as both writer and director . ' 49-'17 ( 1917 ) Ruth Ann Baldwin - Joseph Girard , Leo Pierson , Jean Hersholt
A Kinder , Gentler Torture	Paul Newman ( as Captain Edward W . Hall Jr . ) returns home from the Korean War , on stretcher , after being held in an enemy prison camp . At first , Mr . Newman is treated as a recovering war hero . After evidence surfaces to reveal he collaborated with the enemy , Wendell Corey ( as Major Sam Moulton ) serves Newman with court-martial papers . This doesn't sit well with military-minded father Walter Pidgeon ( as Colonel Edward W . Hall Sr . ) . Newman's widowed sister-in-law , Anne Francis ( as Aggie Hall ) is more understanding . A re-make of the Rod Serling's television version " The Rack " ( 1955 ) , with Mr . Corey reprising his thankless prosecutorial role ; this is a very well-acted , thought-provoking drama . It is also one of Newman's best early feature film performances . Smaller parts , like those essayed by Cloris Leachman ( as Caroline ) and James Best ( as Cassidy ) , provide an added incentive to watch . However , the ending , whatever the filmmakers ' intentions , is not very well-handled .
Sometimes I Feel Like a Motherless Child	Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) startles dinner preparations by announcing policeman John Reach is at the door . He's there with Charles Herbert ( as David Barker ) , a 7-year-old runaway who won't say where he belongs . Young Herbert told the policeman he had the blood sucked out of him by " Dr . Stone " at the hospital . Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) tries to bribe information from young Herbert , but he won't talk . Donna ( Donna Reed ) intuitively senses the boy needs some motherly attention , and persuades Alex they should keep him for Thanksgiving break . Jeff is recruited as " big brother " , but Herbert is incorrigible ? The guest performance , by scowling young Charles Herbert , is terrific . A busy young man before the camera ( at the time ) , Mr . Herbert later learned ( like Mr . Peterson ) that fame can sometimes be a cruel lover . The fact that the boy's mother not only divorced his father , but also deserted her son , makes this Thanksgiving-themed episode more thoughtful . And , it ends with an acceptance of single parenthood ; Donna helps repair the father / son relationship , without introducing daddy John Bryant ( as R . H . Barker ) to a potential new wife . So , writer John Whedon scores points for ducking the obvious . By the way , father Barker , who was a " Marlboro Man " , is allowed to smoke in the Stone home . And , the fish are real . Guest in the House ( / 58 ) John Whedon - Charles Herbert , Donna Reed , Paul Peterson
Duke and the Preacher	As the Wagon Train moves , Duke ( Denny Miller ) is out scouting the terrain . Meanwhile , traveling preacher Franchot Tone ( as Malachi Hobart ) settles down to camp for the night . Duke , afoot due to problems with his saddle , is relieved to encounter Mr . Tone , who shares his food and campfire with the younger man . Tone ministers , " We are all brothers under the sky . " In the morning , Tone fixes Duke's saddle . Duke leaves very impressed , and perhaps naively enthralled , with the charismatic preacher . Before re-joining the Wagon Train , Duke visits feisty old Irene Ryan ( as Martha Gresham ) ; and , he learns her boozing husband has drowned . When a sobered-up Wally Brown ( as George Gresham ) turns up alive , Duke learns the old couple were bilked out of $300 . 00 by Tone , who is revealed a fraud . Duke decides to find the unholy minister ; pretending to be a friend , he invites Tone to join the Wagon Train ? The resulting dramatics may be predictable ; but , they are deftly handled , by writer Ken Kolb and the Wagon train crew . Train master Chris Hale ( John McIntire ) takes a back seat , as the episode focuses on Mr . Miller's attractive " Duke " character . Miller performs well with veteran Tone , who performs marvelously as the bilking preacher . Tone explains , " I tell people what they want to hear . I revive their faith in miracles . " Ms . Ryan and Mr . Brown are noteworthy among the typically fine supporting players . After this appearance , Ryan began her successful episodic career as " Granny " on " The Beverly Hillbillies " . Conversely , Brown's career was over ; he died shortly before this episode aired . It must have been startling to see his character " come back from the dead " ; still , his appearance in " The Malachi Hobart Story " is served by a coincidently reverential tone . The script affirms the characters ' ( Christian ) faith . The Malachi Hobart Story ( / 62 ) David Butler - Franchot Tone , Denny Miller , John McIntire
Bonita Granville & Frankie Thomas Go Under Cover	In her second case for the movies , pretty teenage sleuth Bonita Granville ( as Nancy Drew ) enters a " young newspaper reporter " contest . Naturally , she sheds her human interest story assignment for something more dangerous , and decides to cover a murder trial . Soon , Ms . Granville is re-investigating the case , eventually putting herself in danger . Granville , looking more and more curvaceous , enlists the aid of young wavy-haired neighbor Frankie Thomas ( as Ted Nickerson ) , who looks swell in boxing trunks . ( " One Round Lugan , the Frisco Flash ! " ) This entry's story isn't as well-paced as the first , but the teen detectives are still very appealing . John Litel ( as Carson Drew ) leads an entertaining supporting cast . Nancy Drew . . . Reporter ( 1939 ) William Clemens - Bonita Granville , Frankie Thomas , John Litel
Just Watchable	Macao looks very beautiful . The photography and setting make it very watchable . However , the movie never really takes off . All the beautiful photography seems wasted . The actors are also somewhat wasted ; though , they often appear to be doing the best they can . One scene , in particular , illustrates missed directorial opportunities : It's when Ms . Russell slices a pillow with an electric fan . There is so little menace . . . the scene loses so much potential , and it could have helped characterization . Beautiful looking , but really lacking substance . Macao ( 1952 ) Josef von Sternberg - Robert Mitchum , Jane Russell , William Bendix
More Lassies Than You Can Shake a Stick At	The first of many sequels to the classic 1943 Lassie movie finds original dog owner Joe Carraclough suffering from accelerated growth ; in two years , he has grown about ten years - from boy Roddy McDowall to man Peter Lawford ! Little Pricilla has experiences a similar growth spurt - from girl Elizabeth Taylor to woman June Lockhart ( who would re-encounter Lassie a decade later , as young Timmy's mother ) . Donald Crisp as father Sam has holds up well , considering . Meanwhile , in dog years , Lassie has a son , Laddie . Presumably , " Pal " plays Mama " Lassie " and Son " Laddie " - but , it's possible an actual " Son of Lassie " is used in the film . " Son of Lassie " is , understandably , not as good as the first Lassie film . The photography is absolutely beautiful , though ; and , Pal / Lassie's performance is excellent - in fact , one could argue that the dog creates two separate characterizations ( the Son a little less wise ) . Lawford in endearing as Joe . The World War II storyline is flawed , but inevitable , considering the time of release . The multiplication of Lassies was unnecessary , since it had been less than two years since the first Lassie . Still , it's a very well-photographed Lassie , with a rousing conclusion . Son of Lassie ( 1945 ) S . Sylvan Simon - Peter Lawford , Donald Crisp , June Lockhart
Curtain Call	Without going into details , director Alfred Hitchcock's " Stage Fright " does something with a character's " point-of-view " that fatally flaws the film . By the last act , it will be obvious . It's surprising that so adept a director would " cheat " so ineffectively ; especially , when the technique can ( and has ) be done so well elsewhere . Possibly , Mr . Hitchcock is deliberately misleading the viewer , when he should be ambiguous . The picture is , otherwise , enjoyable . Wilkie Cooper's camera performs expertly . The cast , individually wonderful , never convincingly comes together . For example , it's difficult to believe Jane Wyman ( as Eve Gill ) is the daughter of Alistair Sim ( as Commodore Gill ) and Sybil Thorndike ( as Mrs . Gill ) . Still , Mr . Sim and Ms . Thorndike provide for a wealth of dry Hitchcock humor . Ms . Wyman and Marlene Dietrich ( as Charlotte Inwood ) are , of course , a treat ; and , they make the romantic entanglements as believable as possible . Leading men Richard Todd ( as Jonathan " Johnny " Cooper ) and Michael Wilding ( as Wilfred " Ordinary " Smith ) do their best opposite strong women and , especially in Mr . Todd's case , an unsure storyline . Kay Walsh ( as Nellie Goode ) leads the pack of smaller , delightful Hitchcock characters . Stage Fright ( 1950 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Jane Wyman , Marlene Dietrich , Richard Todd
Ramon Novarro Gets Tackled at Yale	Ramon Novarro ( as Tony Amatto ) works in a steel mill ; he is the son of Italian immigrants , and seems likely to remain a member of the working class . Then , as luck would have it , he wins a college scholarship . At Yale , Mr . Novarro becomes a football star ; but , he still faces class discrimination . Don't miss the opening sequence of this film ; it's a terrific introduction to the film , and defines Novarro's character : Novarro is seen in his " working class " job ; he gets into a fistfight , encounters a beautiful woman , and ends up under a pile of rubble . The woman with the irresistible legs is Madge Evans ( as Rosalie Stone ) ; she is both beautiful , and " upper class " . Novarro re-encounters her later in the film , along with Una Merkel ( as Thelma ) and Martha Sleeper ( as Barbara Winston ) . Novarro's nemesis is Ms . Evans ' brother Kane Richman ( as Tom Stone ) ; and , his roommates are John Arledge ( as Jim " Pidge " Pidgeon ) and Frank Albertson ( as Larry ) . Silent star Ralph Graves is a sound coach Malcolm Gale . Mr . Arledge , as Novarro's second roommate " Pidge " is the best supporting performer ( beating off some stiff competition ) . " I've lived with twelve fellas in my time and only liked three of them , " Arledge explains , after Novarro chases him around the dorm , trying to get some first aid down his pants . The film is a little too long for its own good ; and , it wavers too far from the main story of a poor working class youth winning a chance to attend college , and break class barriers . It's difficult to determine what Novarro is actually learning at Yale . He already knew how to fight , and doesn't seem to have accumulated too many career options - though , he is certainly better off with a Yale diploma . Novarro ( # 44 ) and the cast are certainly appealing , even when the story wavers . The end game plays well . Huddle ( 1932 ) Sam Wood - Ramon Novarro , John Arledge , Madge Evans
The Matrix Overloaded !	" The Matrix " ( 1999 ) is still a great stand-alone film . That first film is THE ONE to see . " The Matrix Reloaded " , the first of the inevitable sequels , sucks all the awesome special effects it can muster , and coats the screen with them . The underdeveloped storyline , which helped make the original more mysterious and imaginative , is filled in enough babble to expose it as significantly less than satisfactory . The creative balance of action , effects , and imagination is lost . The three main actors ( Reeves , Fishburne , and Moss ) are upstaged by " exciting new allies " . So , what's left ? - Although overwrought and onerous , the visual effects are STILL exciting , and the " Matrix Universe " isn't damaged beyond repair . Like they say , " To Be Concluded ? " The Matrix Reloaded ( 2003 ) Larry & Andy Wachowski - Keanu Reeves , Carrie-Anne Moss , Laurence Fishburne
A Baseball Hit for Charles Ray	Charles Ray ( as Benjamin " Ben " Harding ) is a country boy who loves baseball ; he's the pride of small town Brownsville . His sweetheart , Colleen Moore ( as Mazie Palmer ) , has a batting average of 1 , 000 in Mr . Ray's affection - however , he barely gets to first base ! John " Jack " Gilbert ( as Jim Blair ) is a rival for Ms . Moore's affections ; he is not only a heel , with a tendency to drink and gamble - Mr . Gilbert is also more well-heeled , being a banker's son . When St . Paul Pink Sox , a big league team , is stranded in Brownsville , Ray gets to strut his stuff ; then , he is offered a major league spot . Will success spoil Ben Harding ? Ray is convincing as " The Busher " , displaying the little mannerisms which made him so successful in this type of part . His face and body movements expertly portray the " innocent country boy " type . He says , " Gosh ! " . Entering a social , he pats his hair down with a licked hand . His performance at the " Box Social " is charming - at this occasion , the men " bid " on women they can only see as shadows behind a screen . Moore and Gilbert are fine in the supporting roles ; both would become major 1920s stars . The St . Paul Pink Sox ? It might have been a combination of the Boston Red and White Sox . Ray's curve ball nicely strikes out into one of the title cards , and that " Box Social " sure looked fun . It's difficult to believe a major league baseball team considers you finished after one bad game , though ; if that were true , there would be no baseball . The Busher ( 1919 ) Jerome Storm - Charles Ray , Colleen Moore , John Gilbert
Tombstone Cowboy	Roy Rogers ( as Brett Starr ) gets out of Dodge , with some of his brother's family , to become " Sheriff of Tombstone " . Along the way , he meets old up with old pal George " Gabby " Hayes ( as Gabby ) , now a lawyer . Sally Payne returns as Gabby's daughter Queenie . Mr . Rogers and company find lawlessness in Tombstone , led by corrupt Mayor Addison Richards and wayward Sheriff Harry Woods . Jay Novello steals away with all acting honors as John Anderson aka Joe Martinez ; Mr . Novello is dialect-able , makes terrific getaways - and , he is more fun to watch than the cute kids , the granny , and the love interest for Rogers . Novello's versatility is very much appreciated in this film . By the way , the film closes with a suggestion Rogers is about to do some major neckin ' with Elyse Knox ( as Mary ) . Rogers and Ms . Payne share in a light , pleasant soundtrack , highlighted by Rogers ' " Sons of the Western Foil " and Payne's " Two-Gun Pete " . Sheriff of Tombstone ( 1941 ) Joseph Kane - Roy Rogers , George ' Gabby ' Hayes , Jay Novello
Hot for Preacher	In order to elude authorities , western outlaw Marjoe Gortner ( as Ernie Parsons ) assumes the identity of a traveling preacher . Mr . Gortner takes up residence in parson-needy Castle Walk , Arizona ; there , at a funeral , he and sexy teenager Pamela Sue Martin ( as Sally Underwood ) are mutually attracted . Soon , Gortner's shady past threatens his budding relationship with young Ms . Martin . Sidekick Slim Pickens ( as Billy One-Eye ) and mother Estelle Parsons ( as Sadie Underwood ) lend their support . Even in this slightly above average television production , Gortner has star quality to burn . Taken as a screen test , " The Gun and the Pulpit " miraculously elevates the former evangelist to convincing western hero . Pamela Sue Martin is excellent as Gortner's barely legal leading lady ; her glances are more sensual than a strip tease . Director Daniel Petrie handles the assignment admirably . Gortner's star quality was evident since the riveting documentary " Marjoe " ( 1972 ) , which revealed his evangelical movement to be a money-grubbing scam . In hindsight , it seems Marjoe Gortner was too hot for Hollywood to handle .
Mack Sennett is Faithful	Arthur Johnson ( as Adonese ) is driving home after a date when he sideswipes simple-minded pedestrian Mack Sennett ( as Faithful ) . Mr . Johnson feels awful , and takes the shaken , but unwounded , tramp out shopping . Mr . Sennett is so taken with Johnson's generosity , he attaches himself to his handsome new friend . At first , Johnson feels guilty ; and , he lets Sennett hang around . Eventually , Johnson grows tired of having the adoring Sennett play Siamese twin , and throws the bum out . It doesn't last , however , as " Faithful " Sennett returns with a flower for his benefactor . Poor Johnson can't even spend time alone with his fiancée Florence Barker ; understandably , she doesn't want to share her beau with his new companion ? Sennett's comic pathos makes this a very effective film ; this time , he plays extraordinarily well with director D . W . Griffith , and his ideal leading man , Johnson . Sennett is especially sweet when he brings Johnson a flower ; he is too simple-minded to mind being roughed up by Johnson . Although he is annoying , Sennett's " Faithful " elicits much sympathy . This is also a very nicely paced film , with a pleasant balance of comedy , drama , and suspense . As a bonus , look for a generous amount of early Hollywood location footage ( around Biograph's Pico studio ) .
Go West , Young Man	In 1820 , handsome dance instructor Charles Collins ( as Jonathan Pride ) decides to visit his aunt in California . Young Mr . Collins thrills the ladies by waltzing with his hands touching their waists . Leaving his giddy pupils wanting more , Collins takes the long route - around the continent of South America . Armed with only his satchel and an umbrella ( to return to his aunt ) , Collins is mistaken for a pirate . As the " Dancing Pirate " , he is holds up in the western town of La Paloma . There , he dances , faces danger , and falls in love with lovely Senorita Steffi Duna ( as Serafina Perena ) , daughter of the town's bumbling mayor , Frank Morgan ( as Don Emilio Perena ) . The well-staged " Finale " earned an " Academy Award " nomination for dance director Russell Lewis . Leading man Collins looks like he had everything needed to become a major star - possibly , he found himself in the wrong studio , at the wrong time . Without the takes afforded the standard era star ( Fred Astaire ) , he manages to be dazzling , in his solo routines . The scene with Collins ' umbrella stuffed down the front of his pants provides a visual worthy of a Mae West double-entendre . Mr . Morgan isn't a very convincing " Don " , but he is always a film asset . Ms . Duna , a Hungarian woman , is a beautiful and believable Senorita . Currently , this film is more available in " black & white " than " color " - this is not always a disadvantage , but " Dancing Pirate " really should be seen in color . Although my " Hollywood Legends " VHS Madacy HWGL-5512 says " B & W " on the sleeve , this release of film IS definitely " in color " . It most certainly does NOT star cover-girl Rita Hayworth , however . Ms . Hayworth , Pat Nixon , and Marjorie Reynolds can be spotted among the dancing extras ( provided you know who you are looking for well enough to spot them ) . Dancing Pirate ( 1936 ) Lloyd Corrigan - Charles Collins , Steffi Duna , Frank Morgan
Putting the Make on Norma Talmadge	Beautiful secretary Norma Talmadge ( as Mayme ) quits job after job because amorous men are always making sexual overtures . In order find steady work without sexual harassment , Ms . Talmadge decides to make herself look " extremely unattractive to men . " Talmadge puts on a pair of glasses , pulls her hair up in a tight bun , and cuts out the cleavage . Talmadge is hired by wealthy matriarch Kate Lester ( as Mrs . Peabody-de Puyster ) , who lives with boozy playboy son Gladden James ( as Jimmie de Puyster ) and heiress daughter Helen Weir ( as Elsie de Puyster ) . Of course , Mr . James finds Talmadge romantically unappealing , until he meets her sans disguise . . . While Talmadge and James fall in love , one of Talmadge's former caddish employers , Herbert French ( as Count Limonittiez ) loses his fortune , and begins to court Ms . Weir . Knowing he is only after Weir's money , Talmadge decides to catch Mr . French in a compromising position . Gossipy reporter Erich von Stroheim ( as Adam Buzzard ) causes everyone problems for everyone , by revealing their secrets in his newspaper society column . Real-life couple John Emerson and Anita Loos are notable contributors . While the situation is ludicrous ; Talmadge's comic performance , von Stroheim's snooty support , and the New York locale are strengths . The Social Secretary ( / 16 ) John Emerson - Norma Talmadge , Gladden James , Erich von Stroheim
Pepsi-Cola Hits the Spot on a Sesame Seed Bun	Beautiful young Ryan Phillippe ( as Milo Hoffman ) graduates from Stanford University . A computer whiz , he's immediately propositioned , along with a declining college geek pal , by charismatic billionaire Tim Robbins ( as Gary Winston ) . Mr . Robbins head-hunts the best minds , for his Internet company N . U . R . V . ( Never Underestimate Radical Vision ) . Flattery , and the promise of financial success , help Mr . Phillippe overcome his reluctance to enter the corporate world ; and , he accepts Robbins ' offer of employment . At home , Phillippe is encouraged by artist girlfriend Claire Forlani ( as Alice Poulson ) . At work , mysterious and sexy Rachael Leigh Cook ( as Lisa Calighan ) turns head . The Orwellian atmosphere at N . U . R . V . is ? well , unnerving . Phillippe's estranged friend Yee Jee Tso ( as Teddy Chin ) , who declined joining what he considers a " Fascist " company , is surprised by an unfortunate event . Meanwhile , paranoiac Phillippe begins to feel something may be rotten in Robbins ' computer empire ? Director Peter Howitt leads his cast and crew through a neat , suspenseful thriller . Sometimes , " AntiTrust " comes on a little too pretty ; but , it's an all-around good effort . And , it definitely captures that sinking feeling you have when switching from a school-centered to a work-based lifestyle . Robbins ' character isn't hard to figure out , but he plays it deliciously . Ms . Forlani is truly fascinating ; " Does that make me Yoko ? " she asks . Mr . Howitt has a terrific cameo . Three geek " shout-outs ! " for Howitt , John Bailey , and Zach Staenberg . AntiTrust ( 2001 ) Peter Howitt - Ryan Phillippe , Tim Robbins , Claire Forlani
An Eye for Poetic Violence	Described as , " Inspired by real events , ' Munich ' reveals the intense story of the secret Israeli squad assigned to track down and assassinate the 11 Palestinians believed to have planned the 1972 Munich massacre of 11 Israeli athletes - and the personal toll this mission of revenge takes on the team and the man who led it , " on the DVD sleeve , " Steven Spielberg's explosive suspense thriller garnered five Academy Award nominations , including Best Picture and Best Director . " " Munich " is an undeniably well-produced film ; Mr . Spielberg's films generally are . After Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir explains , " The world must see that killing Jews will be from now on an expensive proposition . , " handsome Eric Bana ( as Avner Kaufman ) leads Israel's covert team , assigned to assassinate the terrorists responsible for the massacre at Munich . Mr . Bana gives the film a strong , focused characterization . He gets four helpers : pre-Bond blond Daniel Craig ( as Steve ) , bomb-maker Mathieu Kassovitz ( as Robert ) , veteran forger Hanns Zischler ( as Hans ) , and bespectacled diplomat Ciarán Hinds ( as Carl ) . The team of five tracks terrorists around the world . When one is found , the film's excitement is heightened considerably . Informant Mathieu Amalric ( as Louis ) adds some intrigue , also . The film is slow , and the violence intermittent - but when it occurs , you practically have to scrape the flesh off your screen with a squeegee . There is an attempt to be " fair " and / or " straightforward " in that the film gives an " historically fictionalized " account of a factual event . But , there is a political point being made - the film clearly questions both the righteousness and effectiveness of Israel's decision . Munich ( 2005 ) Steven Spielberg - Eric Bana , Daniel Craig , Mathieu Kassovitz
Michael Douglas Gets Some Secret Service	Secret Service veteran Michael Douglas ( as Pete Garrison ) once helped save President Ronald Reagan's life , during a 1981 assassination attempt . Presently , Mr . Douglas is one of the most trusted and respected agents assigned to protect the President . But , Douglas is having an affair with the President's wife , Kim Basinger ( as Sarah Ballentine ) . Getting it on with the " First Lady " results in deception showing up in a company-wide lie detector test Douglas has to take , after the Secret Service discovers a " mole " within the organization . Framed , Douglas flees top investigator Kiefer Sutherland ( as David Breckinridge ) and rookie hottie Eva Longoria ( as Jill Marin ) , while the real killers move to kill the President ? The questions Douglas is asked , during his lie detector test , should have tipped him off ; they are phrased differently than those given to the other agents . There are a lot of moments when the plot falters , but director Clark Johnson and the cast keep convincing you to ? move along . . . Mr . Johnson does an excellent job - and , he steps in front of the camera very effectively , as early victim " Charlie Merriweather " . It was nice to see Martin Donovan and Blair Brown in the supporting cast , reunited after working together on " Dark Shadows " . The cast , direction , and D . C . locations , keep " The Sentinel " above average . The Sentinel ( 2006 ) Clark Johnson - Michael Douglas , Kiefer Sutherland , Kim Basinger
Griffith Draws the Battle Lines	Sweethearts Charles West and Blanche Sweet have fun at an 1861 dance ; then , he and the other men , including Robert Harron , are off to fight for the Union , in the Civil War . Women and children cheer the departing throng - - but they don't get far , as the war rages just outside town . In the first conflict , Mr . West becomes panic-stricken , and goes AWOL . He runs home to Ms . Sweet , scared witless . Sweet is somewhat crazed , herself , and practically throws him out ; obviously , she is ashamed of her boyfriend . Luckily , he manages to gather his wits , and return to the front before he is missed . He goes just before being discovered by wounded Union Commander Charles H . Mailes , who arrives at Sweet's home to recuperate . On the battlefield , West gets a chance to prove himself , after a tragic event ? Though less than twenty minutes long , this is an " epic " film . The cast of extras is very large ; memorably , many of them march by ( presumably ) G . W . Bitzer's camera as they go off to war . Cheering crowds , and warring soldiers , are all over the screen . " The Battle " is one of the better early films directed by D . W . Griffith . The battle sequences are excitingly staged ; and a stagecoach ride thrills . The story of cowardice during wartime is bold ; Griffith had just explored the theme with " The House with Closed Shutters " ( 1910 ; but , in that instance , Walthall's " cowardly " character had been drinking heavily ; West's character is truly stricken by fear . Charles Ray would play a similar coward in 1915 . West and Sweet get a chance to emote ? and , over-emote . The total lack of understanding Sweet shows West is a little hard to understand ; it looks like she may have been playing a little " mad " herself . Probably , Griffith was directing the two to express some extra craziness for entertainment value . Harron is at his usual best . Familiar faces include Donald Crisp as the Union soldier first in line , to the left , when West joins up ; and , look for Lionel Barrymore steering the stagecoach just after Harron expires on the battlefield .
One Good Turn Deserves Another	Mae Marsh works , happily , as an ordinary telephone operator ; among the calls she places is one to the jewelry shop " Julius Jorgenson " , as wealthy Claire McDowell calls to arrange a meeting about some jewels . Ms . Marsh uses her break time to see policeman suitor Alfred Paget . " The Telephone Girl and the Lady " cross paths as the former is on her way back to work , and the latter is returning home from the jewelry store . McDowell is impressed with Marsh's friendliness . They do not know Ms . McDowell is being followed by bicycle thief Harry Carey ; he is planning to relieve McDowell of her jewels . Later , " The Lady " McDowell sends " The Telephone Girl " Marsh a beautiful necklace , writing , in an accompanying note , " I am asking you to accept this token in appreciation of your promptness and painstaking efforts to please . " From her telephone operator position , Marsh calls to thank McDowell for the gift . While the two women converse , burglar Carey sneaks enters McDowell's house , placing " The Lady " in great danger ! Marsh hears McDowell being assaulted at the other end of her telephone line - - will she be able to rescue McDowell from Carey's clutches ? D . W . Griffith , G . W . Bitzer and the good folks at Biograph deliver another winner . The location scenes are beautiful ; generous amounts of early 1900s New York scenery are displayed on screen . The Biograph players perform an exciting story well . Carey is particularly menacing in his scene with McDowell ; adding an amorous edge to his attack . Marsh is also notable ; she is both expressive and natural , in a thoroughly charming performance . The story is a little confusing , however ; it is adapted from a play , where some further explanation of story elements and character motivations may be clearer .
A Sound Stage for the Stars	A Bill of Divorcement ( 1932 ) George Cukor - John Barrymore , Billie Burke , Katharine Hepburn It's Christmas in England . World War I veteran John Barrymore ( as Hilary Fairfield ) has been committed to an asylum for 15 years , due to insanity brought on by " shell shock " . The season has resulted in a blessing for Mr . Barrymore , who is on his way home for the holidays , after recovering his sanity . Meanwhile , wife Billie Burke ( as Margaret " Meg " Fairfield ) has fallen in love again , received a divorce , and is planning to re-marry . Barrymore's return throws the household into turmoil . Daughter Katharine Hepburn ( as Sidney Fairfield ) , also planning to marry , begins to fear starting her own family , after learning Barrymore's madness is hereditary . It's admittedly not intended as such , and consequently not exceptional ; but , George Cukor's " A Bill of Divorcement " should be seen as a filmed stage play . The story is thought-provoking ; it mixes madness , marriage , and war with duty , self-sacrifice , and religion . The characterizations are , today , " outdated " in style , substance , and storyline . Still , they are interesting in context . The three lead performances are significant : Barrymore's theatrical skills are clearly evident ; his performance is most enjoyable ( the war duty scene is a highlight ) . Additionally , Ms . Burke begins a welcome " second career " in sound films ; and Ms . Hepburn begins a welcome " second career " in films . With less to do , steadfast supporting actress Elizabeth Patterson ( as Hester Fairfield ) definitely holds her own .
All Punks Go to Heaven	In Penelope Spheeris's " Suburbia " , alienated and unwanted teenagers ( and twentysomethings ) find a new home for themselves : the " T . R . House " by " The 605 " . T . R . stands for " The Rejected " , and Interstate 605 is a freeway located in San Gabriel , California . " Suburbia " is explained in the film , perhaps incorrectly , as a combining of the words " Suburb " and " Utopia " . Leader of the T . R . s is Chris Pedersen ( as Jack Diddley ) ; he is the one with the super blond surfer ' do . He rounds-up two rejected teenagers as the film opens ? BUT , first things first . Director-writer Spheeris begins the film with a " dog attack " ; interestingly , the film will feature a group of Wild Dogs , which threaten the inhabitants of " Suburbia " . The parallel / symbolism between the T . R . s and the abandoned dogs should be obvious . Then , we seen Bill Coyne ( as Evan Mark Johnson ) at home , reading a comic book , with the T . V . playing ; his mother comes home and berates him for stealing her liquor , and neglecting his chores . Mr . Coyne decides to runaway from home , saying goodbye to little brother Andrew Pece ( as Ethan Johnson ) ; after their mother has a drunken automobile smash-up , Mr . Pace will join his big brother at T . R . House . T . R . leader Pederson finds Coyne after a punk rock concert , " passed out " ; his drink spiked , incidentally , by the film's " druggie " Keef ( Grant Miner ) , who is also a member of T . R . They go pick up Wade Walston ( as Joe ) , who lives with his disinterested gay father . Mr . Walston provide the film's " romance " when he hooks up with suicidal Jennifer Clay ( as Sheila ) . Timothy O'Brien ( as Skinner ) is another important member of T . R . house ; he hammers nails in walls , so the inhabitants can hang . Flea ( as Razzle ) is the most illustrious member of the T . R . s ; also known as Michael Balzary , he is the Red Hot Chili Peppers ' bassist . Ironically , this Flea is good for dogs ; and , he attempts to tame the wild ones threatening " Suburbia " . Flea also demonstrates a fondness for rats ; so , perhaps , he was a fan of the 1970s punk band The Stranglers ' IV Rattus Norvegicus ? The punk music groups represent the era well ; but , the soundtrack could have been improved by more classic punk songs ; and , a title song would have been great . The T . R . s should be commended for not watching Wally George " Hot Seat " , but they still , however , have awful taste in T . V . shows . Their set should have been traded in for a good stereo . The acting is realistic , and the characters speak Spheeris well ; but , the relatively small amount of sex and drugs doesn't ring true . The End is a downer .
Bow Talks !	Wild party girl Clara Bow ( as Stella Ames ) has plenty of fun at the " Winston " college for young women . Parties and roadhouse jaunts are the college girls ' preoccupation . On the train trip to " Winston " , Ms . Bow recalls accidentally climbing into bed with fellow traveler Fredric March ( as James " Gil " Gilmore ) . As it turns out , Mr . March is the school's new Professor of Anthropology . Bow and her housemates see the good-looking teacher arrive , and immediately become interested in anthropological matters . Eventually , Bow and March fall into each other's arms , which threatens their student and teacher status at the college . Bow's first " talkie " was not unsuccessful , although it is sometimes recalled as a failure . Perhaps , detractors are recalling Bow's subsequent talking features . Strangely , she became more unnatural , hesitant , and uneven in later films . Possibly , she was rattled by negative reviews . However , by 1931 , Bow's performances became more assured . By then , unfortunately , it was too late for the huge audiences attending " The Wild Party " to appreciate her efforts . " The Wild Party " is a more than respectable talking film debut ; while undeniably silly , it was a fun " college youth " film . Bow wasn't going to be young forever , obviously ; but , she could still carry out the college hi-jinks . March and the supporting cast perform well . And , Paramount assigned a woman , Dorothy Arzner , to direct the film . Watch for one notably silent word " mouthed " the film . When Bow and the women are in the back seat of the car , they see March walking in the street , and Bow exclaims , " - - - - ! " The Wild Party ( 1929 ) Dorothy Arzner - Clara Bow , Fredric March , Joyce Compton
The Lion in Spring	In New York's Central Park , jobless Joan Blondell ( as Dot ) flirts with unemployed Wallace Ford ( as Rick ) as they ogle unaffordable hot dogs . When a wayward baseball strikes the vendor's window , Ms . Blondell swipes two juicy hot dogs , which she shares with Mr . Ford . The two are mutually attracted , and arrange a more proper date . Ford is acquainted with the park cop Guy Kibbee ( as Charlie ) . Mr . Kibbee has one week of work until he is eligible for pensioned retirement . However , Kibbee is no longer a competent policeman - his vision is failing . . . Blondell is duped , by gangsters , into working undercover in a " Most Beautiful Girl " contest . Ford smells trouble , and gets into danger of his own . Meanwhile , lunatic John Wray ( as Smiley ) escapes from his insane asylum . A former keeper at the " Central Park Zoo " , Mr . Wray causes trouble for everyone by causing the zoo's killer lion ( " Nebo " ) to escape from his cage , and threaten the environs . Henry B . Walthall ( as Eby ) is a Kibbee confidante . Harold Huber ( as Nick ) is the gang leader . Director John G . Adolfi and his cast make this creaky early talkie roar with all their might . Central Park ( 1932 ) John G . Adolfi - Joan Blondell , Wallace Ford , Guy Kibbee
Corinne Griffith Has Legs	Impoverished beauty Corinne Griffith ( as Toni LeBrun ) dreams of becoming a famous opera singer . After getting her diploma , Ms . Griffith is accepted for an audition in Budapest . She finds figures more interested in her beauty than her singing ability . Mannish Maude George ( as Madame Bauer ) demands Griffith , " Show me your legs " , then hires her to sing at the " Palais de Paris " . There , leering patrons , like Lowell Sherman ( as Henri D'Avril ) , admire the female form . Griffith bonds with matronly worker Louise Dresser ( as Rosa de Garcer ) , a down-on-her-luck Baroness . When Ms . Dresser's pension check comes in , she takes Griffith on a Cinderella-like adventure ; and , she meets princely Charles Ray ( as Richard Dupont ) . Lewis Milestone ( director ) , John Arnold ( photographer ) , and William Cameron Menzies ( designer ) are responsible for some stunning , stylish work . Especially , savor Griffith's arrival at the squalid " Palais de Paris " , early in the film . Later , watch for the scene with Griffith and Mr . Ray sitting at the grand piano , as the raised lid puts them in a beautiful , reflective " triangle " . Star Griffith receives a lavish , loving production . The cast is very entertaining , especially Dresser and Ms . George , who more often supported Erich von Stroheim . Ray seems a little uncomfortable at times ; a decade earlier , he routinely offered superior performances . Although , the story is rather routine , it's nice to have " The Garden of Eden " around ; thanks to " Flicker Alley " . The Garden of Eden ( 1928 ) Lewis Milestone - Corinne Griffith , Charles Ray , Louise Dresser
The Unholy Dolls	Wrongly imprisoned Lionel Barrymore ( as Paul Lavond ; and , later , Mme . Mandelip ) escapes from Devil's Island , after a seventeen years . Accompanying him to freedom is mad scientist Henry B . Walthall ( as Marcel ) . The pair hook up with Marcel's wife Malita ( Rafaela Ottiano ) , and form an unholy trio . Mr . Barrymore wants to get even with three ex-partners , who framed him for their crimes . Mr . Walthall wants to continue his grotesque experiments ; he has discovered a way to shrink human beings into doll-sized slaves . After Walthall expires , Barrymore uses the scientist's doll slaves to enact his revenge , with a little help from widow Ottiano . While attractive , the duo of Maureen O'Sullivan ( as Lorraine ) and Frank Lawton ( as Toto ) are no match for the more seasoned actors . It's a treat to see old D . W . Griffith players Barrymore and Walthall team-up ; and , then join Ottiano , at her most outrageous . Director Tod Browning delivers a slew of additional entertaining performers ; among them , Pedro de Cordoba is chiefly villainous . Sadly , Walthall expires way too soon ! Barrymore was evidently being considered as MGM and Browning's chief replacement for the deceased Lon Chaney . " The Devil-Doll " is a highly derivative film , from the always fascinating Browning . The Browning / Barrymore team had just completed the Browning / Chaney re-make " Mark of the Vampire " , which was not entirely successful . Here , Barrymore is much better ; though , his performance is very evocative of Chaney in " The Unholy Three " - - note the scene with jewels hidden inside a child's toy appears , to better effect , in both " The Unholy Three " ( 1925 ) and " The Unholy Three " ( 1930 ) ; though , it remains a highlight . The penultimate ending sequences are also exciting , while the reason for continuing the father / daughter deception seems strained .
Out of Sight , Out of Mind	Adventurous Kevin Bacon ( as Sebastian Caine ) heads up an ultra-secret group of scientists , employed by the US Pentagon ; they have discovered how to turn animals invisible . The group includes Mr . Bacon's beautiful ex-girlfriend Elisabeth Shue ( as Linda McKay ) , and her handsome new bed partner Josh Brolin ( as Matt Kensington ) . After successfully making a gorilla ( " Isabelle " ) invisible , and bringing her back to the " seen " world , Bacon decides it's time for a human to take the invisibility plunge . Bacon swallows the serum , and becomes an invisible man . . . " What would you do if you knew you couldn't be seen ? " asks Kim Dickens ( as Sarah Kennedy ) . Good idea . An updated , darker " Invisible Man " - with Kevin Bacon as the title character , and fantastic special effects - is ruined by a truly absurd storyline . The side effects of Twinkies are astonishing . And , you won't believe the healing powers of Duct Tape . For what it's worth , the scenes with Greg Grunberg ( as Carter Abbey ) show the subject of voyeurism handled well . As usual , Bacon is game . Finally , Rhona Mitra is an eyeful , as Bacon's busty neighbor . Hollow Man ( 2000 ) Paul Verhoeven - Kevin Bacon , Elisabeth Shue , Josh Brolin
Killing Me Softly with His Song	Armistice Day 1919 is celebrated by most French citizens , but handsome veteran Phillips Holmes ( as Paul Renaud ) is haunted by the face of a German soldier he killed during the Great War . After consulting with a Priest , Mr . Holmes decides to visit the man's family , in Germany . Holmes intends to confess his act , and clear his Christian conscience . But , the dead soldier's family mistake Holmes for friend of the deceased , after learning he's been bringing flowers to Mr . Holderlin's grave . Eventually , the dead man's father , Lionel Barrymore ( as Dr . Holderlin ) , accepts Holmes as almost a replacement son . Then , Holmes falls in love with pretty Nancy Carroll ( as Elsa ) , the fiancée of the man he killed ? Ms . Carroll and Holmes were more memorable in " The Devil's Holiday " ( 1930 ) ; and , Carroll was runner-up in the " Academy Award " for " Best Actress " for the 1929-30 eligibility period . But , here , Carroll doesn't have anywhere near the screen time or script she needed to make a like impression . The more focal relationship is between " son " Holmes and " father " Barrymore . Holmes is the lead actor ; and , with direction from Ernst Lubitsch , performs in a manner that sometimes seems over-the-top , but was favored by many " serious " actors during the early 1930s . Still , Mr . Lubitsch contributes memorable moments , and the opening montage is terrific . The film's thesis is out of fashion is some ways , but is nevertheless interesting . Broken Lullaby ( / 32 ) Ernst Lubitsch - Phillips Holmes , Lionel Barrymore , Nancy Carroll
Crossing the Water	In Palestine , a virgin named Mary ( Gene Gauntier ) is visited by one of God's angels ; subsequently , she becomes pregnant . Meanwhile , an angel of God invites Joseph , a son of David , to wed Mary . The angel explains that Mary's child is the savior Jesus Christ , who will grow up to save his people from their sins . The child grows up without fanfare ; but , as an adult ( Robert Henderson-Bland ) , Christ assembles disciples , and begins performing miracles . He is persecuted for his beliefs ; and , finally , he is crucified . For its time , a very good version of the often told story of Jesus Christ . Director Sidney Olcott and photographer George Hollister do very well ; their scenes with Mary , Joseph , and young Jesus in Egypt are a beautiful example . It's nice to see the scenes with Jesus as a child ; and , note the one where he carries a stick of lumber foreshadows the crucifixion . Mr . Henderson-Bland acts the part very well ; he is subdued , and looks comfortable in the role . Ms . Gauntier , who assisted Mr . Olcott greatly throughout the production , was certainly the film's most valuable player . The miracles scenes are very silly looking , and acted ; although , to be honest , I haven't seen enough people " raised from the dead " to judge the antics on screen . The " walking on water " might have worked if the water was a little calmer . There should have been more story explanation given for it , but the crucifixion elicited passion . Not the first " feature " film , but an important one ; for its lovely Egypt , Palestine , and Ireland location scenes . " From the Manger to the Cross " is the peak production from the early " Kalem " film company . Notably , it omits the resurrection ( some versions add it , from another film ) . From the Manger to the Cross ( / 12 ) Sidney Olcott - Robert Henderson-Bland , Gene Gauntier , Robert G . Vignola
Parents Just Don't Understand	Norma Shearer and Leslie Howard play Shakespeare's star-crossed young lovers Juliet Capulet and Romeo Montague . As this version of " Romeo and Juliet " is a relatively faithful adaptation of Shakespeare's original play , the ages of the characters are relevant ; thus , Ms . Shearer , Mr . Howard , and others are , obviously , too old for the parts . That being said , this is still somewhat entertaining film , well directed by George Cukor , and expertly photographed by William Daniels . The production , sets , and lighting are extraordinary . Shearer is especially well lighted ; and , she performs Juliet in earnest . John Barrymore ( as Mercutio ) and Basil Rathbone ( as Tybalt ) are more fun than a barrel of Montagues ; hey , you live by the sword , die by the sword .
Carrying a Torch for Joan Bennett	Some surprisingly glorious scenery and set direction highlight " The Count of Monte Cristo " . Louis Hayward cuts a fine Count ( aka " The Torch " ) . Joan Bennett is the beautiful queen - attracting the attentions of both Mr . Hayward and a deliciously wicked George Sanders . They , and the supporting players work very well together , and keep the movie interesting . My favorite of the many nicely envisioned scenes is when Ms . Bennett , in a garden prison , releases a bird from its cage . Cleverly symbolic . I also like the " graveyard " hiding place - decorated with skeletons . The film's ending is terrific . With a tightening of its script and a little more budget , this might have attained classic status . It's a great example of a cast and crew making the absolute most of what they were given by a studio . The Son of Monte Cristo ( 1941 ) Rowland V . Lee - Louis Hayward , Joan Bennett , George Sanders
Thinly Disguised	Sharp , well-produced variation on the frequently filmed " Enoch Arden " plot . Herein , Claudette Colbert ( as Elizabeth MacDonald ) is informed that husband Orson Welles ( as John Andrew MacDonald ) is a Great War causality . Ms . Colbert is devastated , and pregnant with his son , who grows up to be Richard Long ( as John " Drew " Andrew ) . Colbert marries comforting boss George Brent ( as Lawrence " Larry " Hamilton ) ; and , they have a happy life . But , first husband Welles really didn't die - - he was only badly wounded . After two decades , Welles goes home - - but , he has a surgically altered face , and walks with a limp . Directed by Irving Pichel , Colbert and Welles are great fun to watch ; with their fine performances , you can read some ambiguity into the film's ultimately flawed storyline ( which has to do with recognition ) . Mr . Long is quite impressive , in his film debut ; he had a long , successful , and far too under-appreciated television career . Eight-year-old Natalie Wood is cute as Welles ' foster daughter " Margaret " . If only it were more plausible . . .
The Title is a Dead Giveaway	Barbara Stanwyck ( as Megan Davis ) arrives in Shanghai , to marry missionary Gavin Gordon ( as Bob Strike ) . Instead , she falls in love with a sexy Chinese warlord , Nils Asther ( as General Yen ) , who is winds up holding her prisoner . Frank Capra's " The Bitter Tea of General Yen " isn't as offensive as it appears , on the surface ; although , the story is , ultimately , unsatisfactory . Still , it's a fine looking production , with beautiful direction and photography ( Joseph Walker ) . Ms . Stanwyck and Mr . Asther perform their sexual attraction marvelously ; their characterizations are worthy of " Best Actress " and " Best Actor " consideration . And , supporting actress Toshia Mori ( as Mah-Li ) makes it a passionate threesome - when the three of them share a scene , on Asther's train , every movement sizzles . The Bitter Tea of General Yen ( 1933 ) Frank Capra - Barbara Stanwyck , Nils Asther , Walter Connolly
William Powell Marries the Gish Sisters	In Florence , Italy , during the Renaissance , Lillian Gish ( as Romola ) lives with her blind father Bonaventura Ibáñez ( as Bardo Bardi ) , who is a friend of Savonarola , Michelangelo , and Leonardo da Vinci . Although they are not too wealthy , the Bardis have one of the world's best libraries . Young sculptor Ronald Colman ( as Carlo Bucellini ) is interested in the lovely Lillian , but she is interested in more scholarly pursuits ; this makes her an easy mark for shipwrecked sham scholar William Powell ( as Tito Melema ) . Before Mr . Powell cleans up for his meeting with Lillian , he meets simple street maid Dorothy Gish ( as Tessa ) . Dorothy is quite taken with the dashing Powell ; then , so is Lillian . Can he marry them both ? Henry King's " Romola " makes a fine silent film , thanks to lavish location production values , and a winning cast . The title notwithstanding , the film focuses on the intermarrying three characters played by Lillian Gish , William Powell , and Dorothy Gish . Close to the film's end , the three have some great on screen conflict time together ; and , Lillian performs a cathartic moment exceptionally well . An exciting ending follows . Curiously , Powell's " Tito " character seems to be the story's main protagonist , arguably , until the end ; surely , the original George Eliot novel was more focused on " Romola " .
Smoke from a Distant Fire	After helplessly witnessing his father's death , in a fiery car accident , 14-year-old California boy Ronny Howard ( as Chris Long ) goes into shock . Overcoming some grief , young Howard must adjust to life with a new stepfather , Earl Holliman ( as Cal Fitch ) . Although Mr . Holliman tries to be fatherly , he only opens old wounds . Howard wants his real father . That is not possible , but could Howard have a dog ? Mr . Holliman turns his stepson's request down , as a dog's presence would disrupt Holliman sheep ranching business . When Howard finds a " wild dog " , wounded in the woods , he is defiantly determined to keep the animal . This puts young Howard at odds with his stepfather ? " Smoke " is a great story ; it's one of those symbolic animal tales Disneyland favors , and can do well . This one surely benefits from William Corbin's original book ( adapted by John Furia Jr . ) - the young man's transference of love to , and identification with , the wounded animal is nicely done . But , the story's more subtle symbolism ( like the " fox in the hen-house " ) is even better . Howard and Holliman are outstanding , as the disconnected son and stepfather . Of course , Howard uses his acting education from years of appearing in Andy Griffith's " Mayberry " ; still , this is a strong , individual characterization . With Jacqueline Scott , Pamelyn Ferdin , and Andy Devine in the cast , " Smoke " is cute and irresistible . Smoke , pt 1 ( / 70 ) Vincent McEveety - Ron Howard , Earl Holliman , Jacqueline Scott
Smoke Gets in Your Eyes	After helplessly witnessing his father's death , in a fiery car accident , 14-year-old California boy Ronny Howard ( as Chris Long ) went into shock . Overcoming some grief , young Howard had to adjust to life with a new stepfather , Earl Holliman ( as Cal Fitch ) . Although Mr . Holliman tried to be fatherly , he only opened old wounds . Howard wants his real father , which is not possible . Mr . Holliman turned down his stepson's request for a dog - but , in part one ( last week ) Howard found his dog " Smoke " . He is defiantly determined to keep the animal , but the real owner has other plans ? " Smoke " is a great story ; it's one of those symbolic animal tales the Disney studio favored , and often did so well . This one surely benefits from William Corbin's original book ( adapted by John Furia Jr . ) - the young man's transference of love to , and identification with , the wounded animal is nicely done . But , the story's more subtle symbolism ( like the " fox in the hen-house " ) is even better . The climatic , heavy-handed " rescue from fire " isn't as satisfying ; but , this is mainly due to TV budget restraints . " Smoke " could have stood up as a first class feature presentation . Howard and Holliman do well , as the disconnected son and stepfather . Of course , Howard , uses his acting education , from years of appearing in Andy Griffith's " Mayberry " ; still , this is a strong , individual characterization - and , it shows Howard to be very capable between his two long-running typecasts ( " Opie " and Richie " ) . Jacqueline Scott ( as Fran Long Fitch ) makes the most of the more minor mother / wife role , lifting the picture with a couple of very strongly performed dramatic scenes . With Pamelyn Ferdin and Andy Devine in the cast , " Smoke " is cute and irresistible . Smoke , pt 2 ( / 70 ) Vincent McEveety - Ron Howard , Earl Holliman , Jacqueline Scott
Mary Pickford and the Beast	Mary Pickford is quite taken with Edwin August ; in fact , he is her " ideal " . But , Mr . August's refusal to get mixed up in a street brawl makes him look like a coward to Ms . Pickford . Meanwhile , convict Alfred Paget has escaped from prison ; and , he is " A Beast at Bay " . While Pickford and August go for a ride in her nifty 1900s automobile , criminal Paget ambushes one of his guards , taking the man's clothing and gun . Next , Pickford drops off August , still arguing he is a coward , and drives off . Alone , Pickford gets out of her car to retrieve a fallen garment ; then , on-the-lam Paget moves in to carjack her . From a distance , August witnesses Pickford being taken at gunpoint - - can he save his girl , and prove he's not a coward ? Another D . W . Griffith film with a criminal invading an otherwise unrelated situation ; this time , the interest is heightened as August's cowardice does play well against the danger offered by convict Paget . August seems , possibly , a little more reasonable than cowardly , given the circumstance depicted ; however , the characterizations are interesting and believable . The " parallel " stories have a structural reason to juxtapose . The engine pursuit is genuinely thrilling - - Griffith and his crew continue to offer great , innovative movie excitement . Mae Marsh is the best of the always fine Biograph supporting troupe ; she's Pickford's best girlfriend . Pickford is fine as the demanding damsel ; she plays the heroine with a relatively high level of resourcefulness - - and , it's nice to see Mary Pickford in the " driver's seat " ! Paget steals some acting honors , with his portrayal of the desperate convict . Look for a great scene between Paget and Pickford - - at about 11 : 00 minutes in - - Paget will touch Mary Pickford's curls , finger her lapel , and reach down to open her coat , suggesting sexual violation ; it's creepily well-played .
The Importance of Being Ernest	In Missouri , during the Civil War , " high , wide , and handsome " Gary Cooper ( as Clint Belmet ) gets a little jail cell shut-eye . Awakening , he moseys over to the local saloon , where he is held at gunpoint by the town's drunken sheriff . Mr . Cooper's guardians , Ernest Torrence ( as Bill Jackson ) and Tully Marshall ( as Jim Bridger ) , secure his release by convincing French lass Lili Damita ( as Felice ) to pretend she is Cooper's wife . Then , the quartet join a caravan to California . A real romance begins to bloom between Ms . Damita ; but , Mr . Torrence and Mr . Tully want Cooper's bachelorhood preserved . Along the way , Indians ( Native Americans ) lurk ? Old pros Torrence and Marshall are " Fighting Caravans " main attraction . They were responsible for many memorable character roles ( mostly ) in silent films ( mostly ) ; and they are in excellent form , reprising their " Covered Wagon " roles . Cooper obviously enjoys working with them . Ms . Damita is cute and effective . The production levels are relatively high , leading to the obligatory ending battle ; but , the performances make it entertaining . Unnecessarily re-made as " Wagon Wheels " ( 1934 ) , with stock footage and Randolph Scott .
Stewart and Allyson Hit it Out of the Park	James Stewart and June Allyson look twice as old as the roles they are playing ! Still , " The Stratton Story " is enjoyable . In the early scenes , Mr . Stewart's frame , and natural acting style , make him somewhat believable as a boy interested in baseball . Ms . Allyson doesn't try to play too " girlish " ; instead , she wisely acts her part as a woman complimenting ( by being in love with ) Stewart's character . Allyson , and her character , save the film ? the moment she appears , the focus is on the pair's relationship , and not on baseball . The Stewart / Allyson relationship is really what makes the film work , I thought - - the Stewart character could have been a golfer , doctor , whatever ? The scenes beginning with Stewart and Allyson in separate beds , backs turned , and unable to sleep , have an understated dignity . Stewart and Allyson's nice performances are enhanced by : Frank Morgan , aka " The Wizard of Oz " ; and Agnes Moorehead , Endora from " Bewitched " . The later baseball scenes are more realistic , and fun to watch . It's strange to see the older baseball style ; today , many of the players would be pumped up with steroids . I wish the sport would return to being more based on fun and skills . Love is not something a surgeon can cut . The Stratton Story ( 1949 ) Sam Wood - James Stewart , June Allyson , Frank Morgan
Bartenders Know Everything	Broderick Crawford is terrific as a police detective going undercover as a longshoreman . The film begins with Mr . Crawford , while off-duty , investigating a shooting ; when he arrives , he's told to watch the victim by another detective - only to be left holding the victim ( so to speak ) . After his " error " , he is assigned to undercover as longshoreman at a mob-infested dock , and locate dangerous mob boss " Blackie " . On the docks , the film really takes off - the story gets very exciting , with hardly a misstep . The camera is a sharp match for the players and script . Note , Ernest Borgnine throws a swell party . Broderick says " Oh , please ? " like he was born yesterday . " The Mob " has enough twists and turns to keep the interest brewing . . . to a tight ending . The Mob ( 1951 ) Robert Parrish - Broderick Crawford , Richard Kiley , Ernest Borgnine
Private Dick Powell Gets Tough	Good looking film version of Raymond Chandler's " Farewell , My Lovely " , with Dick Powell taking a great career turn as private detective Philip Marlow . Claire Trevor and Anne Shirley are perfect ( and sexy ) as the two women who become involved with the storyline , and Mr . Powell . Though very well written , and adapted ( by John Paxton ) , this is still a sometimes confusing film . Mainly , it's the flashbacked story which begins the piece - - Powell is hired by burly Mike Mazurki ( as " Moose " Malloy ) , fresh out of prison , to find his old girlfriend , Velma . Director Edward Dmytryk and photographer Harry J . Wild give the film a fantastic look , despite a limited 1940s budget ; a surrealistic , drug-induced sequence fits the film perfectly . The supporting performers , like Otto Kruger , Ralf Harolde , and Esther Howard are great . Ms . Howard is particularly memorable as sobering drunk Jessie Florian ; she provides an essential clue to the film's main mystery .
Pigs at the Trough	Three interlocking stories - The FIRST has college Professor Robert Redford ( as Stephen Malley ) involving bright , but approaching apathetic , Andrew Garfield ( as Todd Hayes ) in intellectual warfare . The teacher / student discussion takes place in Mr . Redford's office . Flashbacks help tell the story of Michael Peña ( as Ernest Rodriguez ) and Derek Luke ( as Arian Finch ) , two former students Redford inspired ? to fight in George W . Bush's " War on Terror " . - The SECOND has soldiers Peña and Luke , struggling to stay alive , during a battle in Afghanistan . - The THIRD has journalist Meryl Streep ( as Janine Roth ) being fed a scoop , by Republican Senator Tom Cruise ( as Jasper Irving ) , revealing the military initiative involving the fate of Redford's former students . . . The BEST part of " Lions for Lambs " is the stellar " Best Supporting Actress " - caliber performance , and negligent " Media " storyline , involving Ms . Streep . With a focus on Streep's character , the film might have been a classic . Imagine the story with Streep starring - still as the reporter covering Senator Cruise , but with her own son having left Redford's classroom to join the Army . The apathy , patriotism , and politics covered by director Redford and writer Matthew Michael Carnahan is not revelatory . The real story is abdication of responsibility , by what is commonly called " The Mainstream Media " . This ( Streep's story ) is what the public needed to be hit with ? hard . Lions for Lambs ( 2007 ) Robert Redford , Meryl Streep , Tom Cruise
Unlucky Charms	Nazi-era playboy Clive Owen ( as Max ) and his dancer lover Brian Webber ( as Rudy ) are pursued by Nazis , after Mr . Owen is picked up by blond hunk Nikolaj Waldau ( as Wolf ) , in a gay club . After being captured , Owen and Mr . Weber are tortured , on a train to Germany's first concentration camp , at Dachau . Also on the train , Owen meets Lothaire Bluteau ( as Horst ) . Mr . Bluteau wears the " Pink Triangle " identifying him as a homosexual , which is considered an especially low form of human life , by the Nazis . To avoid being beaten to death , Owen pretends to be Jewish , and is given the identifying " Yellow Star " . At the concentration camp , prisoners Owen and Bluteau fall in love ; but , they must avoid any physical contact . The opening club / orgy sequence is presented in a disjointed , confusing fashion . It's hard to figure out what is going on - - you should , if possible , play the opening ( up until the Nazis bust into Owen's pad ) twice . The cast is enhanced by cross-dressing Mick Jagger ( as Greta ) , and the original 1979 stage production's " Max " , Ian McKellen ( as Uncle Freddie ) . Mr . Jagger also sings the haunting theme " Streets of Berlin " . Director Sean Mathias and supporting actor Webber make excellent first impressions ; it's strange to see so little work ( film credits ) immediately followed this production . This film version of Martin Sherman's " forbidden " love story is far from perfect ; but , it's still quite captivating . The extent of " man's inhumanity to man " is , as always , horrifying . The film's non-physical sex scene , performed at the concentration camp , is extremely touching . Bent ( 1997 ) Sean Mathias - Clive Owen , Lothaire Bluteau , Mick Jagger
He Blew His Mind Out in a Car	High School hockey star Joseph Gordon-Levitt ( as Chris Pratt ) is a reckless driver . To watch fireflies , he turns off his car's headlights , while out on a double date with four friends . He seriously crashes . Of the foursome , two are killed , one loses a leg , and Mr . Gordon-Levitt is mild-to-moderately brain-damaged . He has trouble " sequencing " . Four years later , Gordon-Levitt has successfully mastered independent living . He receives assistance at Kansas City's " Life Skills Center " , and works nights as an evening bank janitor . Blind roommate Jeff Daniels ( as Lewis ) dreams about opening a restaurant with Gordon-Levitt . Frustrated by the limitations resulting from his head injury , Gordon-Levitt is recruited to be " The Lookout " in a bank robbery , by asthmatic ex-con Matthew Goode ( as Gary Spargo ) . Mr . Goode is plotting to rob the " Noel State Bank & Trust " , where Gordon-Levitt works . Seductive Isla Fisher ( as Luvlee Lemons ) helps to reel Gordon-Levitt into Goode's gang . The power of sex and money threatens to derail Gordon-Levitt's life . Debuting director , and acclaimed writer , Scott Frank makes a favorable debut ; shots involving doors and windows are especially effective at enhancing mood and increasing tension . Gordon-Levitt deftly refrains from overplaying the leading character's disability . Interestingly , co-stars Daniels and Goode are also disabled ( blindness and asthma ) . The performances , and story , are excellent . " The Lookout " is a film , however , which should have been improved upon . Many movies deserve to be cut , but this one could have stood some lengthening . In particular , the relationships Gordon-Levitt has with Ms . Fisher and two other women leave you wanting , and wondering . More information regarding Gordon-Levitt's brain condition could have been given ; apparently , he has a restricted driver's license ? More importantly , the struggle between Daniels and Goode , for Gordon-Levitt's soul , is too subdued . Despite what's lacking , it's a fine film . The Lookout ( 2007 ) Scott Frank - Joseph Gordon-Levitt , Jeff Daniels , Matthew Goode
All the King's Horses and All the King's Men	Robert Cummings ( as Parris ) , from the small town of " Kings Row " , grows up to be a doctor of psychiatry - which winds up helping childhood friends like Ronald Reagan ( as Drake ) and Ann Sheridan ( as Randy ) . . . The Good : Mr . Reagan and Ms . Sheridan are terrific . Reagan has an actor's " dream event " which is played well - but , really , he's as good ( if not better ) from the introduction ( after the kids grow up ) until the end of the movie . He and Sheridan pull the acting rug out from everyone else ! The photography is beautiful , and the opening cute . The music is swell . The Bad : Mr . Cummings has the pivotal role ; and , he doesn't have quite the right edge to put it over . He may not be entirely at fault , though ; it's not really his performance ability - more the casting , direction , and writing of this central role . For example , Cummings ' relationship with the other characters is a little hard to fathom , especially Reagan / Sheridan . The soapy stuff works in some films , but not so much in this one . No ugly . Kings Row ( 1942 ) Sam Wood - Robert Cummings , Ronald Reagan , Ann Sheridan
Janitorial Eloquence	New York janitor Gene Lockhart ( as Pat Cosgrave ) spends his advanced years dreaming about his home in Ireland , and playing the " Lucky Dollars " newspaper game . If he matches the paper's daily serial number with a bill , Mr . Lockhart will win the $500 . 00 jackpot . Then , he could afford a return to Ireland once before he dies . Lockhart has developed a grandfatherly interest in young stockroom worker James Dean ( as Joey Frazier ) , and his poor family . Mr . Dean's baby son has asthma , which keeps him up at night , and , unfortunately , earns him " dock time " at work . Heavily in debt , Dean can't afford to fill a $9 . 00 prescription for his son . When the time comes for the men to collect their pay , Lockhart rushes to match his dollars ' serial numbers to those in the paper . Meanwhile , hoping for a lucky break , Dean risks his wages in a poker game , with and the other workmen ? " The Bells of Cockaigne " is a short , simple , and sweet little drama . Lockhart ( actress June's father ) is an absolute delight , and Dean plays his role exceptionally well . They are helped by writer George Lowther's excellent , well-paced story ; the little " heart tug " at the end reaches just the right level of sentimentality . Versatile Vaughn Taylor ( as Jonesy ) excels in support . Karl Lukas ( as Kreuger ) , John Dennis ( as Rivnock ) , and future " Mod Squad " boss Tige Andrews ( as Sam ) can be seen among the stockroom workers . And , if you're looking for a fit young Dean in shirtless scenes , this kinescope's a good bet . The Bells of Cockaigne ( / 53 ) James Sheldon - Gene Lockhart , James Dean , Vaughn Taylor
Bright New World	Due to the invention of a " The Domestication Collar " , flesh-eating zombies are brought under control , and become productive members of society ; however , they perform menial tasks . The servile dead attend to those living in fenced US 1950s-styled small towns , while untamed zombies roam around in " The Wild Zone " . In the town of " Willard " , pre-teen K'Sun Ray ( as Timmy Robinson ) lives with parents Carrie-Anne Moss and Dylan Baker ( as Helen and Bill Robinson ) . Alas , the Robinsons are the only family on their street who do not own a zombie ; their new neighbors , the Bottoms , have six . So , to keep up , the Robinsons obtain zombie Billy Connolly ( as Fido ) . Unfortunately , Mr . Connolly's " Domestication Collar " is damaged by an old lady's walker , and he eats her ; then , new and hungry zombies infest the town . Meanwhile , young Ray has grown attached to Connolly ( the boy and his zombie are like TV's " Timmy and Lassie " ) and , the Robinson family find it difficult to cooperate with the controlling " Zomcom " authorities . " Fido " doesn't go far enough into its own intriguing " Wild Zone " ; but , it is a colorful , stylish , and amusingly satirical addition to zombie film lore . Ray and the cast perform well , individually ; with nubile zombie Sonja Bennett ( as Tammy ) and owner Tim Blake Nelson ( as Theopolis ) the most memorable pair . Director Andrew Currie and crew , including Rob Gray ( design ) , Jan Kiesser ( photography ) , Don MacDonald ( music ) , and James Willcock ( design ) , deservedly won awards . Fido ( 2006 ) Andrew Currie - K'Sun Ray , Carrie-Anne Moss , Billy Connolly , Dylan Baker
Start the Revolution without Marie	Indulgent MGM version of the life of " Marie Antoinette " , as portrayed by Norma Shearer . The production is very beautiful looking , and well-performed . It is , however , excruciatingly long , and is without enough story embellishment to sustain interest ; an even more fictionalized account might have been a wiser course of action . Ms . Shearer must be credited with crafting an vivid character ; it's difficult , however , to feel much sympathy for her predicament , in this presentation . Robert Morley ( as Louis XVI ) elicits more sympathy , due to an almost oafish , but sensitive , portrayal ; he is impressive , in his first feature film . John Barrymore ( as Louis XV ) and Gladys George ( as du Barry ) are among those delivering expert support . Particularly recommended for viewers with a longer life span than Marie Antoinette . Marie Antoinette ( 1938 ) W . S . Van Dyke - Norma Shearer , Tyrone Power , Robert Morley
Oh Danny Boy , the Pipes Are Calling	The disclaimer opening doth protest too much , methinks : " Since the days of Plato and Socrates there have been many men of wisdom , but none sage enough to solve the struggle eternal between Capitol ( Business ) and Labor . We do not do not seek to work out the problems of their issue but desire to show the story of the lives of two men as a story and nothing more . " Of course , " The Whistle " unashamedly deals with workplace safety , despite its claim of " nothing more " . Laborer William S . Hart ( as Robert Evans ) lives in the New England town of Chappleville , which is owned and operated by his wealthy boss , Frank Brownlee ( as Henry Chapple ) . Mr . Hart lives with his adolescent son , Will Jim Hatton ( as Danny Evans ) ; " Mrs . Evans " having died during childbirth . Mr . Brownlee lives with wife Myrtle Stedman ( as Mrs . Chapple ) and baby Richard Headrick ; later , baby grows into boy Georgie Stone . Hart regular Bob Kortman ( as Scardon ) has a pivotal role . Hart and company make a bold statement picture , which is also shamelessly emotional entertainment ; and , the star is so effective in the " non-western " lead role , it's a shame he saddled up so much more than not . Hart and Hatton are so convincing as father and son , you can't help but sympathize with Hart . His face shows his son's soul being ripped from Hart , after his gut-wrenching workplace incident . Hart conscientiously carries the remainder of the film well ; but , given the melodramatics , the ending is unnecessarily a downer for one cast member . The Whistle ( / 21 ) Lambert Hillyer - William S . Hart , Frank Brownlee , Myrtle Stedman
Where There's Smoke , There's Fire	After helplessly witnessing his father's death , in a fiery car accident , 14-year-old California boy Ronny Howard ( as Chris Long ) goes into shock . Overcoming some grief , young Howard must adjust to life with a new stepfather , Earl Holliman ( as Cal Fitch ) . Although Mr . Holliman tries to be fatherly , he only opens old wounds . Howard wants his real father . That is not possible , but could Howard have a dog ? Mr . Holliman turns his stepson's request down , as a dog's presence would disrupt Holliman's sheep ranching business . When Howard finds a " wild dog " , wounded in the woods , he is defiantly determined to keep the animal . " Smoke " is a great story ; it's one of those symbolic animal tales the Disney studio favored , and often did so well . This one surely benefited from William Corbin's original book ( adapted by John Furia Jr . ) - the young man's transference of love to , and identification with , the wounded animal is nicely done . But , the story's more subtle symbolism ( like the " fox in the hen-house " ) is even better . The climatic , heavy-handed " rescue from fire " isn't as satisfying ; but , this is mainly due to budget restraints . " Smoke " could have stood up as a first class feature presentation . Howard and Holliman do well , as the disconnected son and stepfather . Of course , Howard uses his acting education , from years of appearing in Andy Griffith's " Mayberry " ; still , this is a strong , individual characterization - and , it shows Howard to be very capable between his two long-running typecasts ( " Opie " and Richie " ) . Jacqueline Scott ( as Fran Long Fitch ) makes the most of the more minor mother / wife role , lifting the picture with a couple of very strongly performed dramatic scenes . With Pamelyn Ferdin and Andy Devine in the cast , " Smoke " is cute and irresistible . Smoke ( - ) Vincent McEveety - Ron Howard , Earl Holliman , Jacqueline Scott
Griffith Makes it Reels	Upon release , the said to be the longest film feature ever - the biblical-era " Judith of Bethulia " . Notably directed by D . W . Griffith , it's really not as good as some of his previous releases ; in hindsight , its length is perhaps its most remembered feature . The story centers on Judith ( Blanche Sweet ) courageously figuring to save her city ( Bethulia ) from the invading army of the conqueror Holofernes ( Henry B . Walthall ) . To wit , Ms . Sweet dresses herself up in order to seduce Mr . Walthall . She looks more ridiculous than seductive , with what looks like a peacock on her head . Walthall's other ladies , and eunuch ( ! ) , look more fetching . A marvelous actor , Walthall doesn't have much to do in " Judith " . The acting honors are stolen , early on , by Mae Marsh and Robert Harron , perhaps because they were directed to walk around without over-emoting . There are some exciting battle sequences . Judith of Bethulia ( 1914 ) D . W . Griffith - Blanche Sweet , Mae Marsh , Robert Harron
Tod Slaughter Slays ' Em	" A deranged man murders another man in order to assume his identity and take over a recently inherited estate . Soon after arriving at the estate , the psychotic man finds he must continue his murderous tendencies in order to keep his charade from being exposed . As the number of victims increase , along with his deepening madness , it becomes a matter of time before all is revealed and the man's true identity is exposed , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Thespian Tod Slaughter ( posing as Percival Glyde ) receives a rude awakening when he discovers the man whose head he hammered to death , " Sir Percival " , was penniless . In order to keep the man's estate , he goes ahead with an arranged wedding to pretty Garbo-light Sylvia Marriott ( as Laurie Fairlie ) . After a tearful wedding night , Ms . Marriott tries to distance herself from the repulsive Mr . Slaughter , who is trying to get her to sign over her fortune . When Marriott won't cooperate , Slaughter has her locked in a cell as " The Woman in White " , a ghostly apparition seen around the family mansion . Slaughter must also contend with cast members he hasn't been able to murder , like wormy Hay Petrie ( as Isidor Fosco ) . " Crimes in the Dark House " isn't very successful at adapting the Wilkie Collins novel , but it makes a great vehicle for Tod Slaughter - a thoroughly delightful actor in peak performance mode . Crimes at the Dark House ( 1940 ) George King - Tod Slaughter , Sylvia Marriott , Hay Petrie
John Garfield's Last Shot	After a heist goes wrong , cop killer John Garfield ( as Nick Robey ) is on the run . Taking cover in a public swimming pool , Mr . Garfield meets plain Shelley Winters ( as Peg Dobbs ) . Flattery gets him everywhere ; and , Garfield uses Ms . Winters for getaway cover . Starved for the manly affection , Winters mistakes his advances for interest . Soon , Winters has Garfield in her apartment , to meet the family . When he feels the police closing in , Garfield holds up in Winters ' apartment , holding the family hostage . Desperate hours ensue ? It's difficult to understand Winters ' continued naivety ; and , the " family held hostage " plot doesn't ring quite true . Still , Garfield's paranoia , and Winters ' character development make it well worth watching . Sadly , this was Garfield's final film ; he died within a year , at age 39 . Director John Berry and photographer James Wong Howe make it look great . " He Ran All the Way " boasts a fine supporting cast , led by Wallace Ford . And , the ending grows with an exciting , thought-provoking intensity .
The Bowery Boys Go West	While Huntz Hall ( as Horace Debussy " Sach " Jones ) reads " Hair Trigger Western Yarns " , sweet shop proprietor Bernard Gorcey ( as Louie ) sings " Louie , the Lout " to Bobby Jordan ( as Bobby ) , William " Billy " Benedict ( as Whitey ) , and David Gorcey ( as Chuck ) . Wrapped up in his western pulp stories , Mr . Hall daydreams about the days of " Cowboys & Indians " , and " Louie " hints about a western past . . . Suddenly , a sheriff enters the scene , on horseback ; he claims " Louie , the Lout ' is a WANTED outlaw . Then , Bowery leader Leo Gorcey ( as Slip Mahoney ) arrives to find ( his real-life father ) the elder Gorcey hiding from the sheriff . Gorcey takes " The Bowery Boys " out west , to solve the case of the falsely accused " Louie " . The New York City group meet up with Cowboys and Native American Indians , in an old-fashioned western setting . Bowery chum Gabriel Dell ( as Gabe ) arrives in the town ( " Hangman's Hollow " ) , undercover as " The Klondike Kid " , to help the " Bowery Buckaroos " clear " Louie " and locate a gold mine . This is one of the cleverest movies in the " Bowery Boys " series . Gorcey delivers some of his best " malaprops " ( a nude baby picture is " Exhibition A " ) ; and the rest of the cast is uniformly smooth . The story is very nicely plotted , with Mr . Hall figuring prominently . " Marshall " Minerva Urecal and " Indian " Iron Eyes Cody are terrific . Regulars Bernard Gorcey and Gabriel Dell have good roles , too . And , this is the last appearance of Bobby Jordan , who was in the originally named " Dead End " ( 1937 ) group . In the early 1940s , Mr . Jordan was featured much more prominently in these films - the stories were often about his character - but , as the comic antics of Gorcey and Hall took center stage , Jordan was derailed by both " Uncle Sam " and injury . In " Bowery Buckaroos " , Jordan leads the secondary " Bowery Boys " in making the most out of their supporting roles . It's a shame the producers couldn't work Jordan into more stories , perhaps in spin-offs Mr . Benedict's " Whitey " character ( they have some good " bits " herein ) . In future films , Jordan will be missed . Bowery Buckaroos ( / 47 ) William Beaudine - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Bobby Jordan
Pray for Rosemary's Babies in Orbit	" Johnny Depp and Charlize Theron star as courageous NASA astronaut Spencer Armacost and his beautiful schoolteacher wife Jillian , a seemingly perfect couple whose lives are momentarily shattered when Spencer's mission mysteriously loses contact with Earth for two minutes . But neither Spencer nor Jillian know that those 120 seconds of terror will ultimately threaten their sanity , their future and their lives in this heart stopping psychological thriller the critics call , ' One scary edge-of-the-seat nightmare ' , " according to the film's official synopsis . Everything you see about this movie gives away the story ; the trailer makes the plot obvious , and every other critic compares it to " Rosemary's Baby " ( 1968 ) . Indeed , it is an updated version of Roman Polanski's classic , with Aliens substituted for Satan - the old devil has clearly been replaced as top villain , after his 1960s-1970s heyday . Although nothing is outlined , anyone with rudimentary knowledge about plotting will figure out what's happening in " The Astronaut's Wife " ; its flaw is that it takes no real risks . Even the swipe has been done . Ms . Theron is the lead . She and Mr . Depp look great ( eyebrow and hair color are perfect ) , but Theron only has a couple of scenes approaching the level of Mia Farrow's characterization in " Rosemary's Baby " . She looks almost too good during her pregnancy , whereas Ms . Farrow looked more and more sickly . Director Rand Ravich shows promise more as a director than writer . Allen Daviau's photography is excellent . The film is so derivative it dims the impact of some excellent supporting performances , led by a dazzling Joe Morton ( as Sherman Reese ) . The moronic ending should be chopped off and sent to deleted scenes hell . . . before that , the film's strengths outweigh its weaknesses . The Astronaut's Wife ( / 99 ) Rand Ravich - Charlize Theron , Johnny Depp , Joe Morton
The Greatest Parting Shot	Masked bandits enter a railroad office , and tie up the telegraph operator ; they are planning " The Great Train Robbery " . When the approaching train makes its pit stop , the robbers jump aboard . The bandits find their booty in a box , which they blow up , after a bit of shooting . Next , the bandits force the train passengers to lineup , and loot their valuables . Meanwhile , the railroad operator has recovered , and rounds up a posse ; then , they go after the robbers ? A landmark Edwin S . Porter film , with future western star Gilbert M . " Broncho Billy " Anderson . The lasting image , and film highlight , however , is Justin D . Barnes firing away , in the film's closing seconds . It still packs a punch , since the final shot is so unexpectedly different from the rest of the film .
The Johnson Airplane	Sturdy , determined Spencer Tracy ( as James " Jimmy " Doolittle ) organizes the US response to the World War II attack on Pearl Harbor . Mr . Tracy , and the film , make it obvious the Japanese stood no chance of besting our American forces . Note the number of men who respond to Mr . Tracy's repeated invitations to " drop out " of the dangerous mission . Despite Tracy's presence , the film stars Van Johnson ( as Ted Lawson ) . Mr . Johnson's performance is , at times , reminiscent of a younger Tracy ; in context , it's a little distracting . Still , Johnson essays the star-making sacrifice , begun by John Gilbert in MGM's " The Big Parade " , effectively . Despite the big parade of men lining up to go fight in the actual war , MGM was able to find a great cast of available men ; who were , presumably , persuaded to postpone enlisting . Among the servicemen , Robert Walker ( as David Thatcher ) is a clear stand-out . At home , Phyllis Thaxter ( as Ellen Lawson ) is sweet and refreshing . And , making the most of a small role would have to be Robert Mitchum ( as Bob Gray ) . The story is very good , albeit heavily clichéd on film ; it was based on the real Ted Lawson's story . Director Mervyn LeRoy's film version features fine music and photography . The highlight of " Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo " is the exciting , and well-constructed , title event . Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo ( 1944 ) Mervyn LeRoy - Van Johnson , Spencer Tracy , Robert Walker
Brandon Routh Takes Flight	After a soul-searching sabbatical , to see what remains of home planet Krypton , " Superman Returns " to Earth . The Man of Steel knew , as most everyone does , that it was destroyed ; but , astronomers thought they found Krypton . Superman took similar trips in the original DC Comics , but for differing reasons ; and , never for five years . Anyway , he returns , first , to Smallville , where widowed Ma Kent ( Eva Marie Saint ) tends the family farm . Then , it's over to Metropolis , where , disguised as mild-mannered reporter Clark Kent , he picks up where he left off , at " The Daily Planet " . In his absence , Superman's ( ex - ) Girl Friend , Lois Lane ( Kate Bosworth ) has hooked up with managing editor Perry White ( Frank Langella ) ' s handsome nephew Richard ( James Marsden ) . Lex Luthor ( Kevin Spacey ) has been released from prison . Lois has " moved on " by writing a Pulitzer Prize winning article explaining , " " Why the World Doesn't Need Superman . " Lois and Richard White are parenting a coincidently 5-year-old kid named Jason ( Tristan Lake Leabu ) , who looks suspiciously like " Planet " photographer Jimmy Olsen ( Sam Huntington ) . Well , he does . Super-veterans Marlon Brando , Jack Larson , and Noel Neill have cameos . Bryan Singer's film is mostly successful . Mainly , this is due to the title character being a very well cast Brandon Routh . He not only looks the part , but also evokes Christopher Reeve , the man who remains the standard . Without Mr . Routh's convincing portrayal , there is no movie . The special effects are also worthy . Mr . Singer wisely ignores " Superman III " and " IV " , opting for a partial origin , and sequel to " Superman II " . This is where problems begin ; in an already too long film , why are we re-visiting Superboy ? With thousands of villainous stories available , why re-vamp the old Luthor plot ? The film relies more on prior movies than original source material . There is , also , little " chemistry " between key players . This is especially noticeable in the sexless " Lois & Clark " relationship . Ms . Bosworth seems more like a Lana Lang-type , anyway ; she and Mr . Marsden would be very convincing as friends from " The Legion of Super-Heroes " ( Insect Queen and Ultra Boy , for example ) . Hopefully , future " Superman " installments will explain the asthmatic piano player , and reveal how Superman able to lift a huge chunk of Green Kryptonite into space . Despite the weaknesses , it's an entertaining flight . Superman Returns ( 2006 ) Bryan Singer - Brandon Routh , Kate Bosworth , Kevin Spacey
Will Success Spoil Rudy Valentino ?	Impoverished shoemaker's son Rudolph Valentino ( as Juan Gallardo ) wants to be a bullfighter , much to his widowed mother's dismay . Still , toreador Valentino excels in the dangerous sport ; and , later , he is wealthy and famous throughout Spain . Along the way , he marries virtuous childhood sweetheart Lila Lee ( as Carmen ) . For Valentino , temptation accompanies fame , as he falls under the spell of wicked temptress Nita Naldi ( as Doña Sol ) , a slightly sadomasochistic bullfighting groupie . Can Valentino love two women at the same time ? Valentino performs well as an innocent ragamuffin who achieves great fame ; of course , this parallels the idolization of the film's star . Moreover , the Idol proves just as attractive being seduced ( herein , by Ms . Naldi ) as he was the seducer ( in the recent " Sheik " ) . Fred Niblo's " Blood and Sand " is a classic ; however , the story , and disjointed bullfighting footage , do bog things down . Great things happen , after about a quarter hour , when Valentino steps into Naldi's lair . In a neat bit of acting business , Valentino wipes a sweaty hand before greeting his seductress ; then , he and Naldi's servant exchange weird looks as Valentino gets his cigarette lighted . After some crosscutting to innocent Ms . Lee , Naldi's harp-playing gets her man . Writer June Mathis adapts well , for her star ; but , the Ibáñez story should have more streamlined . Combining , or further developing , the characters played by Charles Belcher ( Don Joselito ) and Walter Long ( Plumitas ) might have helped . Mr . Belcher's character is most interesting ; he collects torture devices , and choruses the film's thesis : " Happiness and prosperity built on cruelty and bloodshed cannot survive . " Blood and Sand ( 1922 ) Fred Niblo - Rudolph Valentino , Lila Lee , Nita Naldi
Brad Pitt's Achilles ' Heel	" Brad Pitt picks up a sword and brings a muscular , brooding presence to the role of Greek warrior Achilles in this spectacular retelling of ' The Iliad ' . Orlando Bloom and Diane Kruger play the legendary lovers who plunge the world into war , Eric Bana portrays the prince who dares to confront Achilles , and Peter O'Toole rules Troy as King Priam . Director Wolfgang Petersen recreates a long-ago world of mighty warships , clashing armies , the massive fortress city , and the towering Trojan Horse . " Director Peterson does a good job keeping this long , big-budgeted epic rolling ; especially , he is good with the chest-piercing battle scenes . The film's thesis ; a more plausible , historically , version of the mythological " Iliad " , is a good one - if only the ancient Library of Alexandria in Egypt hadn't burned , we'd know so much more about the era ? Although the film is beautifully produced , the computer generated " look " is , at times , distracting ; don't look too carefully , for example , at those mighty warships . During the picture , Brad Pitt was experiencing a second wave of mega-box office popularity ; and , while his on screen presence undoubtedly thrilled millions , he is not entirely successful in the " Achilles " role . The camera treats Mr . Pitt as a drugstore paperback novel cover boy - with biceps and blond mane prominently displayed . He is obviously trying to essay the role , but Pitt most often looks to be simply posed . Consequently , the usually ultra-sexy Pitt appears almost sexless . Rose Byrne's " Briseis " helps , though ? The more sexy story involves Orlando Bloom's " Paris " irritating big brother Eric Bana's " Hector " by taking Diane Kruger's " Helen " as his lover . Of the four " hot " young leads ( if you count Pitt , Bloom , Kruger , and Bana ) , Mr . Bana comes off the best , with Ms . Kruger edging out Mr . Bloom as the prettiest . Peter O'Toole and a strong supporting cast look as good , if not better , than the stars . Worth checking out , for the spectacle ( great art direction / set direction & costume design ) - and for Eric Bana's acting one-upmanship . Troy ( 2004 ) Wolfgang Petersen - Brad Pitt , Orlando Bloom , Eric Bana
Stretched to the Breaking Point	Spencer Tracy ( your average Joe ) and Sylvia Sidney ( Katherine ) have fallen in love . Mr . Tracy , who loves to eat peanuts , doesn't feel he is financially able to marry as the film begins . Ms . Sidney gives Tracy the ring that her father gave her mother . After awhile , luck turns for Tracy , and he goes to get Sydney to the alter . On the way through a small town , he is stopped by Walter Brennan ; turns out , Tracy fits the description of a wanted kidnapper . The townspeople don't want to wait for a trial - they want a lynching . You won't believe how the story evolves ? " Fury " has a lot going for it - Mr . Tracy performs supremely . The direction and photography are likewise excellent - by Fritz Lang and Joseph Ruttenberg . Moreover , he film addresses interesting , thought-provoking topics ; and , it makes a good case for justice and the rule of law . On the down side , I did find some of the other performances inconsistent . The biggest problem with the film , however , the stretch you have to make to believe the characters as the movie progresses . It takes a lot of twists and turns , which are entertaining ; yet , the characters Tracy and Sidney play are stretched to the breaking point by a script that goes in so many directions . Fury ( / 36 ) Fritz Lang - Spencer Tracy , Sylvia Sidney , Walter Brennan
Alias Jimmy Valentine ( 1915 ) Maurice Tourneur - Robert Warwick , Johnny Hines , Alec B . Francis	Robert Warwick ( as Lee Randall aka " Jimmy Valentine " ) is a respected citizen by day , and a safecracker by night . His main adversary is lawman Robert Cummings ( as Doyle ) , who wants to see Mr . Warwick in prison Sing-Sing . Ruth Shepley ( as Rose Fay ) is the woman who turns Warwick's head , and visa-versa . The situation changes several times over the course of the film ; but , basically , Warwick wants to lead the straight life , as a banker family man - - however , he is haunted by the past . Director Maurice Tourneur makes this a visually exciting silent drama ; many of the images are beautifully done . Warwick is remarkable in the lead role . Johnny Hines ( as Red Joclyn ) and Alec B . Francis ( as Bill Avery ) are also very good - - the story livens up whenever they are on-screen with Warwick ; the three are so good , you'll want them to pull a few more heists ! However , there is no corresponding chemistry with Ms . Shepley ; and , the children perform like wind-up dolls . " Alias Jimmy Valentine " is , unfortunately , not as exciting as it's production or direction . Still , it's quite an achievement for 1915 .
A Marathon Worth Running	Interesting early film , directed by D . W . Griffith . Walter Miller and Henry B . Walthall are partners in business , and rivals for the affections of Blanche Sweet . Ms . Sweet chooses Mr . Walthall , and the two are married . Soon , he goes out on the town , leaving her and the baby home alone . Then , Mr . Miller realizes Walthall is stealing from their company to pay off gambling debts ? This film is given great depth by Griffith's use of windows , doorways , and a mirror in background shots The performances are noteworthy , especially Walthall and Sweet , during the film's climax . A contemporary automobile is featured in the exciting race to save Walthall's life . For it's time , this must have been a shocker . The absence of blood is strange , but the performances make " Death's Marathon " worth running . Death's Marathon ( 1913 ) D . W . Griffith - Henry B . Walthall , Blanche Sweet , Walter Miller
Death Becomes Him	Unsuccessful student Christian Oliver ( as Adam Schmidt ) is smart enough ; but , he is failing to make the medical school grade . Possibly , this is due to his frequent headaches , and an anti-social disposition . Mr . Oliver explains , " I think I'm allergic to people . " After receiving a " F " on his ethics essay , Oliver decides to " drop out " ; and , quickly , he responds to an invitation from mysterious doctor Dean Stapleton ( as Ethan , aka " Dr . Vick " ) . So , Oliver goes to live with Mr . Stapleton , in an isolated , snowbound cabin . You should know Stapleton has gruesome plans for Oliver . Stapleton wants to murder his house-guest , and bring him back to life . " Subject Two " is quite an intriguing take on the old life-creating " Frankenstein " plot . The film is very bright , and well-photographed . The lonely cabin , set in the vast and sparsely populated mountains , is a worthy setting . Rich Confalone's photography is beautiful . Writer / director Philip Chidel , who also appears as " Subject One " , and the two lead actors are also excellent . The story could have been a little clearer . For example ? well , you'll see ? Still , it's an interesting slice of intellectual gore , and a definite career peak for those involved . Its very weirdness is most welcome . Subject Two ( 2006 ) Philip Chidel - Christian Oliver , Dean Stapleton , Philip Chidel
From Beyond the Unknown	As of October 20 , 2007 , " London After Midnight " is a lost film - there is no known surviving footage . Hopefully , a print or portion will be discovered . Until then , TCM's 2002 reconstruction , by Rick Schmidlin , will have to suffice - it was created by referencing the original script and utilizing movie photograph still . Robert Israel provided a representative musical score . Cheers to all involved ! Before viewing the restoration by Mr . Schmidlin , consider watching the other Tod Browning ( director ) , Lon Cheney ( actor ) , and Merritt B . Gerstad ( cameraman ) collaboration " The Unknown " ( 1927 ) ; it may provide the best indication of how " London After Midnight " might have looked on the motion picture screen . Then , see Browning's re-make " Mark of the Vampire " ( 1935 ) ; its script closely follows " London After Midnight " , and it will help explain some story elements limited by the movie stills available . I'm speculating the performances of Lon Chaney ( as Prof . Edward Burke ) and Henry B . Walthall ( as Sir James Hamlin ) were noteworthy , but the story disappointing . Conrad Nagel ( as Arthur Hibbs ) must have been very impressive ; he would shortly co-star with none other than Greta Garbo , in 1928 and 1929 films . And , certainly , Marceline Day was lovely ( as Lucille Balfour ) . London After Midnight ( 1927 ) Tod Browning - Lon Chaney , Henry B . Walthall , Conrad Nagel
Helmut Berger is Dorian Gray	The story is familiar - Oscar Wilde's Dorian Gray wishes his painting would grow old whilst he remain young . This film version certainly does not equal the production quality of Albert Lewin's " The Picture of Dorian Gray " ( 1945 ) , but it is superior in several other ways . Foremost , the casting of Helmut Berger as Dorian is perfect . Mr . Berger has the " beautiful / handsome " balance necessary to essay the role ; he matches his looks with a fine performance , taking Dorian from youth to decadence . Richard Todd ( as Basil ) and Herbert Lom ( as Henry ) support Berger well . Dorian's decadent slide is more appropriately depicted in this " modernized " version ; however , the sexual situations run on way too long - for a time , the screen is filled with one sexual romp after another ; and , the film loses focus . The sexual situations must have been very risqué at the time , but " Dorian Gray " is not " X-rated " . The film may remain titillating because there are numerous sexual escapades ; and , Mr . Berger and the women are very attractive . The final " confrontation " between Dorian and Basil is used to effectively begin this version with a flashback ; it might have helped to begin the 1945 version in this manner . The passage of time could have been better depicted during the early part ( the 1940s-1950s ) of this 1970 version , but the 1960s look terrific . The aging of Dorian's portrait is much more realistic in this version , and it somehow seems much truer to the spirit of Oscar Wilde's original work . Dorian Gray ( 1970 ) Massimo Dallamano - Helmut Berger , Herbert Lom , Richard Todd
Down on the Farm	King Vidor's " The Crowd " ( 1928 ) ended hopefully : James Murray and Eleanor Boardman ( then playing John and Mary Sims ) conquered the industrialized , impersonal City , with a new job and child replacing previous losses . But , the Sims ' luck is , according to this film , cut short by the Great Depression . Tom Keene and Karen Morley ( now playing John and Mary Sims ) are sans job and money . With nothing to lose , the couple moves out to farm some country land owned by Ms . Morley's uncle . Mr . Keene organizes the locals into a communal society ; but , nature and a woman threaten the Sims ' success . Although the lead characters resemble their namesakes from director Vidor's " The Crowd " ; their tale , proclaimed as " Inspired by Headlines of Today " , is derived from a " Reader's Digest " story . The characters do not share factual similarities with the original John and Mary Sims ; for example , no reference is made to their children . Vidor directed , and Keene acted , the " John " role inappropriately . Several of the supporting players are also unsuitable . Morley's Garbo-like " Mary " is a bright spot among the performances , though . Barbara Pepper answers " Garbo " with a Harlow-like " Sally " . It's the closest you'll get to having Greta Garbo and Jean Harlow in the same film . However , the attempted " city girl " temptation of Keene , by Ms . Pepper , is not convincing . Interestingly , Pepper returned to country life in the 1960s , as the wife of " Fred Ziffel " , on TV's " Green Acres " . The irrigating ending is unexpectedly exhilarating . Our Daily Bread ( 1934 ) King Vidor - Karen Morley , Tom Keene , Barbara Pepper
Robert Harron Makes an Impression	Historically important as Robert Harron's first starring feature , " Bobby's Kodak " ( February 10 , 1908 ) also features Biograph cameraman G . W . Bitzer . It was directed by Wallace McCutcheon . Mr . Harron started playing " bit " parts at the studio in late 1907 as an after school job , with future film editor James Smith . Collaborator D . W . Griffith had yet to arrive . " Jim and I were earning five dollars a week , " Harron recalled in a February 8 , 1920 newspaper interview with Louella Parsons , " At that time , five dollars was considered a big salary for a boy . We were proud of ourselves until we started playing regular parts . And then , we used to hold indignation meetings , and say if the company didn't realize our value , we would leave ; a threat which never worried anyone , and which we never carried out . " Happily , the boys stayed with Biograph , and met director Griffith the following year ; thus , with Mr . Bitzer , the ingredients for movie magic were stirred . Unhappily , " Bobby's Kodak " is a lost film . Here is Harron's synopsis : " ' Bobby's Kodak ' was the title . I was the infant terrible , and I snapped my father kissing the maid , mother flirting with the butler , the nurse maid having an affair with the cop . Later , I showed all the pictures ; and , the pandemonium that followed has some of our best slapstick comedies looking lifeless . There was a chase - Edward Dillon played my father , and it was from his irate grasp I had to escape . " Bobby's Kodak ( 1908 ) Wallace McCutcheon - Robert Harron , Edward Dillon
Fairbanks Fences In	Impoverished nobleman Douglas Fairbanks ( as D'Artagnan ) ' s greatest ambition is to join the King's royal swordsmen , " The Three Musketeers " . And , after impressing the three best swordsmen in Paris , Mr . Fairbanks becomes their fourth blade . He also finds love , with Marguerite De La Motte ( as Constance ) , and much palace intrigue . Nigel de Brulier ( as Cardinal Richelieu ) makes life particularly irksome , involving Fairbanks and friends in schemes against weak a King Adolphe Menjou ( as Louis XIII ) , and his unfaithful Queen Mary MacLaren ( as Anne ) . Alexandre Dumas ' classic is a perfect vehicle for Fairbanks ; who , after the success of his " Zorro " , struck box office gold with a series of classy audience pleasing productions . While this is not the best " Musketeers " movie , it's certainly true that Fairbanks ' 1920s films had an indelible impact upon subsequent adaptations . Fairbanks , through the force of his personality , didn't so much " play " characters like " D'Artagnan " as much as he made the characters play him . Fred Niblo ( director ) and Arthur Edeson ( photographer ) create a great swashbuckling atmosphere . Nigel de Brulier steals the acting honors , with his cunning , cat-stroking " Richelieu " ; the best supporting player will reprise his role in a trio of additional " Musketeers " films , including the superior Fairbanks sequel " The Iron Mask " ( 1929 ) . Pretty " leading lady " De La Motte ( from " Zorro " ) and others will also return . After all , it is . . . " All for one and one for all . "
Intriguing Story with Race Reservations	Bette Davis ( as Maggie ) and Mary Astor ( as Sandra ) are rivals for the affections of George Brent ( as Pete ) . The main story , and " The Great Lie " , is that Ms . Astor becomes pregnant and gives the baby to Ms . Davis to raise . After the two women believe Mr . Brent has been killed . Brent turns up alive , and Davis says nothing - - that is " The Great Lie " . There are countless films which depict stereotypes and indicate racism - - this film is one of them . " The Great Lie " is a film with very distracting stereotypical portrayals . It is most distressing to see that Hattie McDaniel is playing essentially the same role in this " modern " story that she played during the Civil War ( in " Gone with the Wind " ) . Otherwise , it's an enjoyable story . Interestingly , Astor more than holds her own against Davis , in her role of concert pianist ; it's also an intriguing characterization . The Great Lie ( 1941 ) Edmund Goulding - Bette Davis , Mary Astor , George Brent
James Cagney Makes an Impression	" The Public Enemy " is not a great film , but it features an absolutely incredible performance , by James Cagney . This was Mr . Cagney's first " starring " role ; and he is great throughout . From the time he walks in front of the camera , moving his cap forward , until his final thundering scenes , Cagney is astonishing . The rest of the film is a mixed bag . For starters , filmmakers showed Cagney ( Tom Powers ) and co-star Edward Woods ( Matt Doyle ) as boys Frank Coghlan Jr . ( young Tom Powers ) and Frankie Darro ( young Matt Doyle ) . Although Mr . Woods is directed to wipe his hand with his sleeve when he first appears , it looks like the boys ' roles are mixed up with the adult men - - Mr . Coghlan Jr . ( a fine performance , by the way ) resembles Woods more than Cagney ; and , Mr . Darro more closely resembles Cagney . The appearance of the boys ' sister and brother ( " sissy " Mike ) is also confusing . Of all the strange supporting performances , Jean Harlow ( as Gwen ) takes the cake ( but not the grapefruit ) . Though second billed , she enters the story late , and leaves abruptly . Ms . Harlow was , like Cagney , on her way to major stardom ; but , unlike Cagney , she shows relatively little of her later charms . In fact , Joan Blondell is much more memorable ( as Mamie , Matt's girl ) . And , famously , Mae Clarke receives the halved grapefruit , in the face , from Cagney ; it's still a great scene , but " The Public Enemy " has much better scenes - - Cagney's visit to the tailor , his walk in the rain , and the film's ending are all superior to the " grapefruit scene " . Watch out for Cagney .
Fairbanks Goes Out in Style	Legendary lover Douglas Fairbanks ( as Don Juan ) feels the fatigue of advancing years ; so , the ageing lady-killer takes advantage of a misunderstanding , and fakes his own death . After a rest , Mr . Fairbanks tries to return to his amorous ways ; but , nobody believes he's the real Don Juan . Through it all , Fairbanks fans both new ( Merle Oberon as Antonita ) and old ( Benita Hume as Dona Dolores ) flames . A look at the credits of " The Private Life of Henry VIII " ( 1933 ) will reveal what filmmaker Alexander Korda had in mind - - obviously , with " Don Juan " , he hoped to duplicate the success of the earlier " Henry VIII " . Unfortunately , this similarly staged " Private Life " found itself coming up short , and is significantly more lowly regarded . Indeed , it is a flat film . Moreover , the supporting cast is introduced in a confusing manner ; it's difficult to keep track of who's who . In his last film role , Fairbanks is terrific as an ageing " Don Juan " . Interestingly , he succeeds in eliciting the feeling he memorably portrayed " Don Juan " sometime during his 1920s box office reign . Not so , the famed womanizer was played , in fact , by John Barrymore ; and , in spirit , by Rudolph Valentino . Still , Fairbanks makes the role personal ; undoubtedly , his status as an fading film superstar helped . Fairbanks ' best scene occurs about a half hour in , when he is informed of his character's " death " via the sword of Gibson Gowland ( as Don Alfredo ) . Fairbanks pretends to be his character's mourning steward ; then , he offers some interesting , likely personal , observations on fame . This is followed by a nice funeral sequence , revealing much about the famed lady-killer's escapades . Barry Mackay's deftly inept portrayal as a wannabe Juan is worth noting ; his " inability " to leap effectively contracts Fairbanks ' ageing gracefulness .
Van Heflin Tears it Up	Robert Taylor ( as Johnny Eager ) is a racketeer on parole ; he is posing an honest taxi driver , but actually runs a successful criminal organization . His companion is Van Heflin ( as Jeff Hartnett ) , an unrequited love-struck alcoholic . Adversarial district attorney Edward Arnold ( as John Benson Farrell ) has a tempting step-daughter , luscious Lana Turner ( as Liz Bard ) , who complicates life considerably . Mr . Taylor is charismatic as gangster " Johnny Eager " and Ms . Turner is lovely as " Liz " ? Van Heflin ( as Jeff Hartnett ) is the actor and performer to watch in this film . Every time he is on camera , Heflin is riveting - whether in the background , staring into space ; or , when seen in close-up , crying his eyes out . Moreover , he never overplays his hand , or goes " over the top " ; instead , he makes the absolute most out of a delicious role . In an otherwise routine production , Heflin delivers an unfolding , landmark supporting performance . Nothing is quite as good as Heflin's performance in " Johnny Eager " , but Taylor's drunken crashing of the " poker party " makes the second half much more entertaining than the first half of the gangster story . Lana Turner watchers should know her clothing choices get sexier during the film's running time . Still , keep an eye on Heflin's " Jeff " - by the end of the film , he is unquestionably Taylor's " leading man " . Johnny Eager ( 1942 ) Mervyn LeRoy - Robert Taylor , Van Heflin , Lana Turner
Fatherhood	Homicide detective Robert De Niro ( as Vincent LaMarca ) has a skeleton in his closet . Mr . De Niro's father was executed as a baby killer . However , De Niro " turned his life around " and , with help from a law-abiding father figure , became a respectable police officer . Unfortunately , he left his wife and young son on the wrong side of the tracks . Fourteen years later , De Niro's handsome son James Franco ( as Joey LaMarca ) has become a gaunt Long Beach junkie , with a neglected son of his own . While scoring some junk , Mr . Franco knifes a dealer , in self-defense ( this is the film's opening ) . Then , father De Niro is assigned the task of bringing in his estranged son as a murderer . If you give " City by the Sea " a chance , it should make a good impression , thanks to the skillfully focused cast and crew . De Niro is particularly good at elevating the story ; he keeps everything real . The story is , otherwise , not structurally sound . To give an example ( without giving anything away ) note that Franco's opening " killing " is hardly a crime . Wouldn't the film's theme have worked better if this was a real , however warranted , passionate murder ? This would strengthen the sense of loss / salvation expressed by De Niro and Franco in the final act . There are other puzzling story developments , right up until the final " beach " visit . Director Michael Caton-Jones ' near-ending " auto body shop " segment is exciting , though . City by the Sea ( 2002 ) Michael Caton-Jones - Robert De Niro , James Franco , Frances McDormand
A Hard Habit to Break	In Italy , the Lordly volcano Vesuvius " waves his plume of peace to a smiling city in the valley " . Of course , the volcano is , in actuality , " a seething ferment of unrest . " The city is equally dominated by the wealthy Chiaromonte family , who live in a monstrous palace . Among them are half-sisters Lillian Gish ( as Angela ) and Gail Kane ( as Marchesa ) . Ms . Gish is in love with young Ronald Colman ( as Govanni Severini ) ; and , they plan to marry . The sisters ' father Charles Lane ( as Prince Chiaromonte ) , when not focusing on his devotionals , likes to ride horses ; unfortunately , he falls off his horse , and dies . Wicked sister Kane destroys the Prince's will ; and , in the eyes of The Law and The Church , inherits everything . Bad becomes worse when the Catholic church refuses to recognize the deceased Prince's second marriage , which produced Gish ; so the wedding with Colman becomes a not-so-blessed event . Finally , Kane throws Gish out of the palace . Later , poverty-stricken Gish is reunited with her beloved Captain Colman . They plan to wed when he returns from a mission to Africa ; but , he is reportedly killed , fighting Arab bandits . Then , Gish becomes a nun . When her more earthly intended turns up alive , Gish must choose between her spiritual husband , Jesus Christ , and the physical Ronald Colman ? Way too long , and directorially unfocused , Henry King's " The White Sister " does not reach its lofty expectations . There are , however , some extraordinarily beautiful scenes ; and , the lead performances are excellent . The film seems relatively " reverential " , considering the subject matter ; though , Colman rails against , " The tyranny of the church - - enslaving women who should be wives and mothers ! " Undoubtedly , Gish and King were familiar with the original portrayal of " The White Sister " , by Viola Allen , on stage ( 1909 ) and screen ( 1915 ) , and sought to bring the story to more " epic " proportions . It appears as if water replaced the more difficult to film lava , for the less-than-climatic finish .
Bette Davis Harvests John Dall	English spinster teacher Bette Davis ( as Lilly Moffat ) arrives to open a school in a Welsh coal-mining village ; she meets opposition from backwards-thinking locals like Nigel Bruce ( as Squire ) , but perseveres . Ms . Davis ' efforts are rewarded as pupil John Dall ( as Morgan Evans ) shows great academic promise . Davis thinks Mr . Dall has what it takes to attend Oxford University . But , breaking Dall free of his socio-economic status proves to be especially difficult , after he has a child-producing dalliance with seductive Joan Lorring ( as Bessie Watty ) . Emlyn Williams ' play " The Corn Is Green " makes an oddly impassionate translation to film ; however , its mannered performances are notable . Perhaps inadvertently , Davis and Dall help by giving the impression something forbidden is simmering beneath the surface of their scripted relationship . An increase in sexual tension would have made the story more interesting . The Corn Is Green ( 1945 ) Irving Rapper - Bette Davis , John Dall , Joan Lorring
Dancing with the Stars	American ballet student Jessica Harper ( as Suzy Banyon ) goes to study at a European dance academy , where grizzly murders and hungry maggots reign supreme . " The Tanz Academy " is fronted by elegant Joan Bennett ( as Madame Blanc ) , with stern Alida Valli ( Miss Tanner ) well-suited , as head teacher . Chief among the young leotard set is Ms . Harper's relatively long-lived pal , lovely Stefania Casini ( as Sara ) . As hair-raising events continue , Harper begins to suspect a coven of witches may have infested the dance Academy . The storytelling part of " Suspiria " is relatively weak , with events unintentionally serving to lesson the dramatic impact of the horror . The superb opening scenes , for example , are never really improved upon . Interesting characters are underdeveloped , and should have been more cleverly woven into the plot . Despite its haphazard script , and some obvious budget restraints , director Dario Argento's " Suspiria " remains an excellent film . Mr . Argento's innovative , imaginative direction is the film's greatest strength . His cutting edge camera sense is often striking ; and , the color photography , with Luciano Tovoli , is illuminating . The sharp soundtrack music , by the appropriately named " Goblin " band , is reminiscent of Mike Oldfield's " Tubular Bells " . Ms . Bennett and Ms . Valli are a treat . The usually underutilized Bennett is especially noteworthy , in her only post - " Dark Shadows " feature film appearance . Bennett accepted the project on the strength of the director's reputation , and a chance to visit Rome . When " Suspiria " appeared in the USA , she received some unwarranted poor notices , and professed dissatisfaction with the film's violent content . Still , Bennett was " Saturn Award " - nominated as 1978's " Best Supporting Actress " for her work . Bennett duplicitously gives the " Madame Blanc " character just the right amount of respectability , or " class " ; she keeps her Academy dancers enrolled , and helps hold the slim story together . Suspiria ( 1977 ) Dario Argento - Jessica Harper , Joan Bennett , Alida Valli
Stroheim's Swansong	In an ancient European kingdom , sultry Seena Owen ( as Queen Regina V ) lounges , awaiting her nuptials with dashing Walter Byron ( as Prince Wolfram ) . Nearby , convent girl Gloria Swanson ( as Patricia Kelly ) encourages the Lord's wrath by sleeping with her photographs of the handsome Mr . Byron . While he is out riding one day , Ms . Swanson gets a chance to meet the idolized Prince , and embarrassingly loses her knickers ! For Swanson and Byron , it's love at first sight . But , how can a simple convent girl get the Queen's stud ? Director Erich von Stroheim and actress Gloria Swanson , with their skills in full tilt excess , are a joy to behold . Yet , " Queen Kelly " emerges as a fairly strong film , despite its self-indulgence . Once considered a hopelessly unfinished work ; the film has been restored , with great integrity , through intertitles , stills , and imagination . There is no doubt Swanson would have played the final reels expertly ; but , there is no way to tell if Stroheim and Swanson would have re-shot some of her opening footage . Few convent girls looked as gorgeous as Gloria Swanson , with her amplified eyelashes . Though she isn't the first ( or last ) Hollywood convent inhabitant to look so ravishing , it would have been wise to tone down the look , until later in the film . Flaws notwithstanding , " Queen Kelly " is full of great stuff . Tobacco-stained Tully Marshall ( as Jan Vryheid ) and whip-wielding Ms . Owen are delightfully outrageous . Byron , pocketing her knickers , is a thoroughly charming partner for Swanson . Stroheim , and photographers Gordon Pollock and Paul Ivano , are outstanding ; a simple scene of Swanson praying , with candles dripping around her , is beautiful . Ah , they had faces then ?
Tears Along the Mississippi	Mark Twain's classic characters are brought back to life , by David O . Selznick , for an updated movie adaptation . For the first time , Tom and Huck are seen in color ( specifically , " Technicolor " ) , which contributes to the film's main strength : it looks storybook beautiful . The reliance on set pieces seems entirely appropriate , giving the film great style ; and , they are very well done . The cinematography , by James Wong Howe , is remarkable . The story wavers from true triumph , however , in the direction of the characters ; the " cuteness quotient " is set far too high . Many tears flow . Tommy Kelly ( as Tom Sawyer ) suffers the most , of course , being the lead player . It should be emphasized , however , that this is not due to his effort ; under the circumstances , Mr . Kelly performs well . Jackie Moran ( as Huckleberry Finn ) is a cute best friend ; but , not much like the " Huck " from Twain's book . Ann Gillis ( as Becky Thatcher ) is a cute girl friend . The players are all good , but May Robson ( as Aunt Polly ) seems the truest . While more cute than mischievous , and far too clean , " The Adventures of Tom Sawyer " is good enough to stand on its own . The familiar " lost in the caves " ending is a great climax ; and , Victor Jory ( as Injun Joe ) still startles . The scene of " Tom " emerging , at last , from the caves - - his black silhouette shot against the blue sky of freedom - - is indelible . The Adventures of Tom Sawyer ( 1938 ) Norman Taurog - Tommy Kelly , Jackie Moran , May Robson
The James Cagney Movie Formula Before the Fall	After " The Great War " ends , G . I . James Cagney ( as Eddie Bartlett ) returns home from France . He expects to return to his old job as an automobile mechanic ; however , the boss breaks a promise , and turns Mr . Cagney away . In fact , the United States is descending into economic turmoil , which will end with " The Great Depression " . Unable to make an honest living , Cagney drifts into profitable " Prohibition " - era bootlegging . Valiant speakeasy hostess Gladys George ( as Panama Smith ) pines for Cagney , but he only has eyes for sweet Priscilla Lane ( as Jean Sherman ) . As the years roll along , Cagney's trusted lawyer Jeffrey Lynn ( as Lloyd Hart ) falls in love with pretty Ms . Lane ? Warner Brothers seems to have pulled out all the stops for " The Roaring Twenties " . Cagney , who had reached an extraordinary peak with the recently released gem " Angels with Dirty Faces " , is a marvel to watch , from beginning to end . Interestingly , after this film , Cagney sought to stop to his " gangster " image , until " White Heat " ( another gem , from 1949 ) . But , here , Cagney is still the victim of circumstances ; note , he does not become a criminal due to his nature . In this film , Cagney is another " Angel " , with a environmentally influenced " dirty face " . . . " The Roaring Twenties " is , also , about relationships ; or , to be more specific , it's about unexciting relationships . The only believable passion Cagney's character has is for best pal Frank McHugh ( as Danny Green ) , who needed some more expository scenes . The one that got away , Ms . George makes the most of a poorly scripted relationship between her character and " Eddie " - this is the pairing the film really serves up short shrift . The production is " top of the line , " , but the story is neither as strong , nor as artfully told as its studio's other " gangster " movies . Still , a star like Cagney , supporting players like Humphrey Bogart , and bit players down to Maurice Costello , make " The Roaring Twenties " purr . The Roaring Twenties ( 1939 ) Raoul Walsh - James Cagney , Gladys George , Humphrey Bogart
Come See the Dark Shadows Vampires Do It	This is an excellent , flawed film spin-off of the classic TV serial " Dark Shadows " . It captures Jonathan Frid , Joan Bennett , Grayson Hall and many of the cast on film , in character , during the time of the original Dark Shadows-mania . For that , we should be eternally grateful . Other favorites David Selby , Kate Jackson , and Lara Parker can be found in the next Dark Shadows movie . What keeps this movie from becoming truly exceptional is that it overindulges . The thing you expect too happen in a vampire horror story happens over and over AND OVER again , to seemingly every character . It's all very stylish and well-done - but , it's OVERKILL . The production , by Dan Curtis is marvelous , but he takes the characters too , too far away from their television characterizations ; at times , they seem like strangers . If considered another in the band of Dark Shadows ' " Parallel Time " , it works . It's a surprise Dick Smith's make-up and Bob Cobert's music weren't Oscar-nominated . House of Dark Shadows ( 1970 ) Dan Curtis - Jonathan Frid , Grayson Hall , Joan Bennett
Risky Mississippi Business	" Oh , Reivers ? that's an old-fashioned word from my childhood , " explains narrator Burgess Meredith , " In plain English , I'm afraid it meant ? thieves ! " The narrator is fondly recalling an adventure he had as an 11-year-old boy , " coming of age " in Mississippi . Young Mitch Vogel ( as Lucius Priest ) is the lad ; he accompanies father-figure / handyman Steve McQueen ( as Boon Hogganbeck ) , who steals the family's first automobile - a brand new , yellow-colored 1905 Winton Flyer . Rupert Crosse ( as Ned McCaslin ) makes " The Reivers " a trio by stowing away in the car's trunk . Their main destination is a bordello , where Mr . McQueen wants to hook up with prostitute girlfriend Sharon Farrell ( as Corrie ) . Meanwhile , Mr . Crosse swaps the trio's prized vehicle for a slow horse named " Lightning " ? Mark Rydell's direction of William Faulkner's final novel is a qualified success . The principal cast members work very well together , with Vogel and Crosse exhibiting as much star presence as the more famous McQueen . The supporting cast is great ; the participation of Will Geer , Burgess Meredith , and Juano Hernandez add to the film's old-world charm . Richard Moore's Mississippi photography is beautiful . Although it doesn't ever go quite far enough , " The Reivers " main strength is in its depiction of real , flawed characters . Faulkner's portrayal of race and gender , as much as they show , are noteworthy . The most touching moments occur when young Vogel learns that women are not viewed the same way , after adolescence . His obvious difficulty accepting the degradation of women ( through prostitution and beating ) portends a different future for the younger generation . The Reivers ( 1969 ) Mark Rydell - Steve McQueen , Mitch Vogel , Rupert Crosse
Lost Little Girl	After her mother mortgages the family's " Sunnybrook Farm " , Mary Pickford ( as Rebecca Randall ) is sent to live with two aunts : Josephine Crowell ( as Aunt Miranda ) is stern and heartless ; she overrides kinder , broken-hearted , Mayme Kelso ( as Aunt Jane ) . Predictably , Ms . Pickford finds things are not so sunny in Riverboro . Moreover , she finds her self at odds with teasing peers , like Violet Wilkey ( as Minnie Smellie ) . Pickford perseveres . And , eventually , she warms folks up , like her older man crush Eugene O'Brien ( as Adam " Mr . Aladdin " Ladd ) , who Pickford hopes to marry when she " grows up " ? In a first class production , Pickford has some nice moments ; though , her affected " little girl " persona doesn't really succeed in effectively portraying the young heroine of Kate Douglas Wiggins ' " Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm " , as evidenced on film . In sometimes startling contrast , several of the other young performers are noticeably more natural and / or charming . Ms . Wilkey , one of the younger set , regrettably " retired " shortly after her convincing portrayal of " Minnie Smellie " . Wilkey , who also played young " Flora " in " The Birth of a Nation " ( 1915 ) , was one of many marvelous young players Pickford employed , to shine by her side . Happily , kids like Wesley Barry and Milton Berle did not retire after appearing herein . Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm ( 1917 ) Marshall Neilan - Mary Pickford , Eugene O'Brien , Violet Wilkey
Curtis Harrington outfits Dennis Hopper	Lonely , young sailor Dennis Hopper ( as Johnny Drake ) enters a seaside California tavern and spies exotic , forlorn beauty Linda Lawson ( as Mora ) . Smitten , Mr . Hopper walks her home , but receives only an invitation to breakfast , the next day . The next morning , Hopper shares a breakfast of mackerel with Ms . Lawson ( and a seagull ) . Lawson explains she works as a mermaid for the local carnival . Hopper begins a relationship with the strange woman , who implies she may be descended from real mermaids . Then , he learns her previous boyfriends died mysteriously ? Curtis Harrington's " Night Tide " is absorbing , atmospheric , and hypnotic . Director Harrington and star Hopper are perfectly suited to each other , focusing on Hopper's achingly natural , and almost impossibly poignant , characterization . The photography ( Vilis Lapenieks ) and music ( David Raksin ) are also in tune . Lawson is magnetic and mysterious . Shakespearean reader Gavin Muir ( as Samuel Murdock ) and coffee-loving Luana Anders ( as Ellen Sands ) join in the struggle for Hopper's mind and body . If only there were a couple of re-takes , another edit , and a clearer resolution ? Night Tide ( 1961 ) Curtis Harrington - Dennis Hopper , Linda Lawson , Gavin Muir
Griffith Goes West	Subtitled " A Tale of the Old West , " director D . W . Griffith promises , " This story corroborates the old saying that truth is stranger than fiction - incidents being taken from actual episodes of those stirring days . " He means those western gold-fevered days in California , circa 1849 . Mr . Griffith ( with assistance from Elmer Clifton ) brings " Scarlet Days " to the expected climactic chase and rescue sequence , in a western setting . It's an excellent picture , overall , though obviously lesser than other Griffith films in release at the time . " Scarlet Days " joined " Broken Blossoms " ( at # 1 ) , " The Girl Who Stayed at Home " , and " True Heart Susie " in " The New York Times " ten best films of the year 1919 list . The main story involves " lonely , little " Carol Dempster ( as " Lady Fair " ) arriving in California to look for her long-absent mother , after the death of her aunt . In the west , Ms . Dempster's mother , Eugenie Besserer ( as " Rosy Nell " ) , has become an embarrassed dance-hall hostess , in order to save money for Dempster's education and dowry ( presumably ) . Upon arriving , irresistible Dempster attracts male attention from darkly handsome Richard Barthelmess ( as Don Maria Alvarez , " The Wandering Knight " ) , fair young hunk Ralph Graves ( as John Randolph , " Sir Whiteheart " ) , and lustful sleaze Walter Long ( as King Bagley , " Knight of the Black Stain " ) . At one point , Mr . Long forces Mr . Graves to watch him attempt raping Dempster . Another Griffith regular , Clarine Seymour ( as Chiquita , " Little Flameheart " ) , has a relatively satisfying role , as the piteous maiden who pines for Mr . Barthelmess . A Griffith regular and promising actress , Ms . Seymour died too soon , after one more film ( " The Idol Dancer " ) . Barthelmess and Graves do well , individually ; but , are a visual mismatch when sharing the screen . Gangly and eye-rolling , Dempster is unconvincing and miscast as the comely maiden . Ms . Besserer's " stained soul " portrayal of her mother is the stand-out performance . Scarlet Days ( / 19 ) D . W . Griffith - Richard Barthelmess , Carol Dempster , Eugenie Besserer
A Stardust Melody ? ( the Memory of Love's Refrain )	Almost any scene of this film , shown in isolation , would suggest it is a masterpiece . But , the entire movie is setting - - a story never really happens . Director Terrance Davies , cinematographer Michael Coulter , and actor Leigh McCormack create very beautiful , sad world for a sensitive boy named Bud . The film is flawless , but don't expect a traditional film plot . " The Long Day Closes " is like watching a piece of art ; sometimes the camera lingers over images so long , it's like you're looking at a still picture . Watching the film , in one sitting , I thought the " Tammy " part was a highlight - - it had me guessing about where " Bud " was : church , school ? It also moved the setting up to 1957 ( I looked up the Debbie Reynolds movie ) ; earlier , I thought the film might take place in the 1940s . Marjorie Yates and the supporting cast were wonderful . The " crucifixion " scene was most startling ; it suggests Christianity may have inflicted more harm than good , on this family . Still , nothing really happened to get me interested what was going on , in the story , I am only a child , myself . I will , absolutely watch for the name Terence Davies , and look for his other work ; he is a phenomenal filmmaker , obviously .
Lovable and Sweet	Hungarian blonde Betty Compson ( as Frederika " Freddie " Joyzelle ) gets fired from her job as a New York waitress , for breaking a dish over her boss ' head . Although the film is suggestively titled " Street Girl " , Ms . Compson avoids dabbling in the world's oldest profession . Instead , Compson hooks up with attractive John Harron ( as Mike Fall ) , who is so taken with briefly homeless Compson , he asks her to move in with his jazzy musical group . As " The Four Seasons " , Mr . Harron's " Mike Fall " is teamed with Jack Oakie ( as Joe Spring ) , Ned Sparks ( as Happy Winter ) , and Guy Buccola ( as Pete Summer ) . Compson , conveniently a violinist , joins " The Four Seasons " both at home and on stage . The group is lively and likable ; especially , the smiling Mr . Oakie , in his spring . The " Seasons " become successful , and romance blooms for Compson and Harron ; but , a visiting Prince threatens the duo's happiness . . . Compson , who was at an artistic peak around the time silent films found their voice , tends to be a little too theatrical in " Street Girl " , her starring vehicle ; she certainly proves her versatility on the screen , however . Leading man Harron gives director / co-producer Wesley Ruggles the film's best acting performance ; he ( perhaps unfairly ) certainly makes you wonder what heights deceased brother Bobby Harron might have reached in the " talkies " . The early Oscar Levant music ( with lyrics by Sidney Clare ) is very good . Gus Arnheim " and His Coconut Grove Ambassadors " skillfully dubbed their instrumentals ; apparently , this is before future star Fred MacMurray joined the group . The frequently heard " Loveable and Sweet " is considered a jazz classic , in the cover version expertly recorded by Annette Hanshaw with the Dorsey Brothers . Although the early " RKO Radio Picture " production is more than a little rough around the edges , the musical / comedy genre storyline is solid . Street Girl ( 1929 ) Wesley Ruggles - Betty Compson , John Harron , Jack Oakie
Litttle Big Women	The film might be more accurately titled " Little Woman " , with Katherine Hepburn seizing the lead role , and never letting go . Otherwise , it's the story of four " Little Women " growing up , and finding love's direction . Hepburn ( she's Jo ) is sister to Joan Bennett ( she's Amy ) , Jean Parker ( she's Beth ) , and Frances Dee ( she's Meg ) . Of their suitors , Douglass Montgomery ( he's Laurie ) gets the most action . Ms . Bennett steals the actual acting honors with a performance that is natural and consistent ; her voice and mannerisms are appropriately girlish , young womanish ? and , selfish . Ms . Hepburn plays girlish like she's had too many cups of coffee ; additionally , she never looks even remotely " tomboyish " ; looking , instead , like a ravishingly made-up MGM movie star . Ms . Parker rises out of her sick bed like a zombie , but is okay in other scenes . Watching Hepburn being romanced by Mr . Montgomery and Paul Lukas is unnerving . The story does have some reasons to watch , however . The production is obviously top-of-the-line . Hepburn may not be in her best role , but it's not awful ; she slows down and gets better after her character grows older . The script has well-written characters - Jo , Amy , and Laurie - who illustrate a sweet story of family , love , and friendship . Little Women ( 1933 ) George Cukor - Katharine Hepburn , Joan Bennett , Douglass Montgomery
Blitzkrieg Bop	This sixth " East Side Kids " film is one of the better Bowery boy adventures . During this era , the movies focused on the characters played by Leo Gorcey ( as Muggs ) and Bobby Jordan ( as Danny ) . Usually , Mr . Jordan and an adult relative provided the storyline , for leader Gorcey and the lads . Criminal activity and reform school were a part of many plots . " Bowery Blitzkrieg " has all the elements which were , obviously , very popular with young audiences ( or , the wouldn't have made so many of these films ) . The storyline is a " Bowery Blitzkrieg " . Apparently , Gorcey and Jordan have taken up boxing ( wouldn't you know it ? ) . It's clear from shirtless Jordan's opening workout ( cut from some versions of this film ) that hunky Jordan is the gang's choice for champ . Instead , Jordan decides to pursue an education . Probably , this put a strain on the otherwise tight Gorcey / Jordan ( Muggs / Danny ) relationship . This would help explain some , but not all , of the ensuing contrived , continuity-starved events . . . Jordan meets sleazy , seductive Bobby Stone ( as Monk Martin ) , and is sucked into becoming the driver for Mr . Stone's petty thievery . Stone drives a wedge between Jordan and " The East Side Kids " by telling him that Gorcey has been talking dirty about Jordan's sister , Charlotte Henry ( as Mary Breslin ) and her " copper " fiancé . At the local pool hall , Jordan gets the best of his old pal , which helps land Gorcey in reform school . After becoming chummy with law enforcement , Gorcey is paroled , by Jordan's sister's policeman boyfriend , Warren Hull ( as Tom Brady ) . Officer Hull wants Gorcey to become law enforcement's champion boxer . Gorcey is a success at boxing , but draws criminal interest ; and , he is paid to throw an upcoming " big fight " . Meanwhile , Jordan continues to drive the getaway car for more of Stone's robberies . On the eve of the " big fight " , policeman Hull catches up with Jordan and Stone ; then , a dramatic shoot-out connects Gorcey and Jordan in life-or-death struggles ? Jordan and Gorcey do very well with the script ( and they can still pass for reform school age delinquents ) . Future regular Stone has one of his best " Bowery " roles ; he and Jordan have an unusual ( gay ? ) relationship , and their dramatic shoot-out is surprisingly well done ( by director Wallace Fox ) , for the series ' budget . Former " Dead End " kid Huntz Hall joins the " East Side " cast , happily ; he's an amusingly thirsty ringside trainer . And , intelligent Ernest Morrison's " Scruno " has a great " against type " bit . Watch for some of the cast's better Bowery moments . Bowery Blitzkrieg ( / 41 ) Wallace Fox - Bobby Jordan , Leo Gorcey , Bobby Stone
Garbo Sets the Single Standard	Greta Garbo envies the freedom acceptable for men , but not permissible for women - the sexual " Double Standard " . She asked her chauffeur to take her for a ride . When they are caught returning from a rendezvous , the chauffeur is fired ; then , he commits suicide . Somewhat disenchanted , Garbo takes off with exciting Nils Asther for a long romantic trip aboard his ship - the " All Alone " . Garbo wants to marry , but Asther must travel to China . Back home , Garbo is romanced by , and does marry , millionaire Johnny Mack Brown . Later , Asther returns ? Garbo loves Asther , but is married ( with child ) to Mack Brown . What will she do ? " The Single Standard " is beautifully photographed and silently performed . The subject matter must have been considered daring at the time . Today , it's fairly standard stuff . Still - Garbo , the photography , and briefly twisted ending make it look like magic . The Single Standard ( 1929 ) John S . Robertson - Greta Garbo , Nils Asther , Johnny Mack Brown
Los Angeles Smacked Upside the Face	Paul Haggis ' " Crash " is an insulting picture . It seeks to say something meaningful about racism run rampant in Los Angeles . Did somebody put something in the water ? Something that only a Los Angeles snowfall could wipe away ? Nearly every character in the film is motivated by ignorant , bigoted instincts . Things get started with a car crash and a carjacking - with people of different ethnic groups colliding ? get it ? The first real grabber occurs when two carjackers ( Ludacris & Larenz Tate ) draw guns and jack a car - not very shocking , but these two don't impress you as carjackers ? which could be part of the point , or not . . . A more shocking scene has two policeman ( Matt Dillon & Ryan Phillippe ) pulling over a couple for lollipopping in their automobile . The wife ( Thandie Newton ) who " went down " is roughly " felt up " by the abusive cop ( Dillon ) , while her husband ( Terrence Howard ) is forced to watch on , apologetically . Later , the abusive cop is offered " salvation " , in a laughably conceived scene . Elsewhere , a snooty ( Sandra Bullock ) socialite finds friendship and redemption in the arms of her housekeeper . A small businessman ( Shaun Toub ) man feels supernatural forces " saved " him from shooting a little girl dead . One of the carjackers becomes a martyr . . . The only character with a story worth telling is the locksmith ( Michael Peña ) seeking a better life for his family ; although , you can make out three or four good stories buried in the mix . The film has no focal character ( it should have been the role played by Don Cheadle ) . It is obvious and lacking humor . And , its overdriven theme is outmoded and unfair . " Crash " drives a stake through its own heart by failing to realize its story is primarily about social and cultural class , rather than the loathsome thing hoisted up on the screen . So , why a relatively high ranking ? The production , direction ( Haggis ) , photography ( J . Michael Muro ) , and performances are often excellent . Crash ( 2004 ) Paul Haggis - Don Cheadle , Matt Dillon , Thandie Newton
Robert Newton Shivers Me Timbers	Robert Louis Stevenson's exciting classic is brought back to life , more or less , as a Walt Disney Production . With those limitations in mind , this " Treasure Island " is , still , quite entertaining . While it's much more light and cheery than the original work , it's also filled with more bloody violence than you'd expect from the Disney studio at that time - - if you're seeing the ( recommended ) uncut version . Bobby Driscoll is an engaging Jim Hawkins ; his gun-wielding offing of pirate Geoffrey Keen ( as Israel Hands ) is an exciting highlight . Some of the pirates are more annoying than terrifying ; and , only a Disney pirate could have such perfectly shiny white teeth ; but , they do grown on you . Robert Newton's snarling " Long John Silver " is an especially memorable portrayal . Mr . Newton's shivering " Arrggggg ! " portrayal is classic ; it has , deservedly , outlived the film . Treasure Island ( 1950 ) Byron Haskin - Bobby Driscoll , Robert Newton , Basil Sydney
Dr . Seuss Gives Moving Pictures a Bart Attack	Troubled ten-year-old Tommy Rettig ( as Bart Collins ) isn't getting enough sleep . Consequently , young Rettig has bad daydreams , especially during practice sessions with priggish piano man Hans Conried ( as Dr . Terwilliker ) . Rettig tells his instructor , " I don't think the piano's my instrument . " Obviously , Rettig should be out playing baseball . The boy also believes the dictatorial Mr . Conried may have mother Mary Healy ( as Heloise Collins ) under some sort of spell - and , may even be planning to marry her , thus replacing Rettig's deceased father . Rettig would rather have his mother marry the plumber , Peter Lind Hayes ( as August Zabladowski ) . Director Roy Rowland and the Stanley Kramer production team keep things interesting , as they plunge Rettig into a nightmarish fantasy world . The film's garish , colorful sets and costumes are very nicely done - and they are imaginatively connected to Rettig's hopes and fears . The influence of writer Dr . Seuss is everywhere ; it's too bad the film was not a hit , since Seuss ' material works well in the live action format . Rettig is able to carry the film , with an endearing , sincere performance ; he is directed well , and happily refuses to be cloying . Conried's character is more cross ( and " daffy " ) than menacing ; he is a delightful entertainer - yet , there is no deep emotional connection to his " Dr . Terwilliker " . He is detestable simply for being a piano taskmaster . The film's other characters are rather bland . The musical score is great , but the soundtrack lacks strong individual songs . This film might have helped Rettig win his role as " Jeff " on " Lassie " , a part he played superbly , until giving the collie to Jon Provost's " Timmy " ( one of 1950s television's most memorable moments ) . The immediate popular and critical success made Rettig one of TV's earliest superstars . And , Conried's Terwilliker may have been a precursor for his semi-regular role of " Uncle Tonoose " on " Make Room for Daddy " - " et cetera ! et cetera ! . . . et cetera ! " The 5 , 000 Fingers of Dr . T . ( 1953 ) Roy Rowland - Tommy Rettig , Hans Conried , Peter Lind Hayes
Chaney Takes the Slow Boat to China	Ancient Chinese custom gets the best of star Lon Chaney in this re-make of 1919's melodramatic " Mr . Wu " . Mr . Chaney portrays both Mr . Wu ; and , in an extended prologue , he's Mr . Wu's grandfather . Chaney is , as ever , wildly entertaining . The film is well-produced , with beautiful photography and sets ; with , for its time , a starry supporting cast . The main story doesn't get started until Chaney struts his oriental stuff ; it involves daughter Renée Adorée ( as Nang Ping ) having an out-of-her-race affair with Englishman Ralph Forbes ( as Basil Gregory ) . Mr . Forbes plays the Englishman enchanted by a lovely " China doll " well . Ms . Adorée is not as convincing in her Asian role ; certainly , supporting player Anna May Wong would have been better cast as Wu's daughter . Louise Dresser ( as Mrs . Gregory ) is quite excellent as Forbes ' mother ; at first , her role seems small - but , keep your eyes on Ms . Dresser , who turns in a great performance without extraordinary make-up ! Chinese culture is not presented very flatteringly , to Western filmgoers , in the end . Chaney ( as Wu ) ' s declaration , " My poor little blossom - broken by an ill West Wind , " evokes D . W . Griffith's superior " Broken Blossoms " ( 1919 ) , which more artfully covered some of the same ground . Mr . Wu ( 1927 ) William Nigh - Lon Chaney , Louise Dresser , Renée Adorée
It's Not Easy Being Green	As the film begins , young Dean Stockwell ( as Peter Fry ) is in a police station ; obviously , the adults do not know where he belongs , or why his head is shaved bald . Robert Ryan ( as Dr . Evans ) gets young Stockwell to speak , after giving the hungry boy a hamburger . Stockwell tells his story : he was a war orphan , and was shuffled between relatives ( " I sure lived in a lot of places " ) . Finally , he winds up with Pat O'Brien ( as " Gramps " ) , a vaudeville-type actor . He and Mr . O'Brian form a relatively happy family . However , at school , Stockwell is teased , for being an orphan ; specifically , he is told he resembles an " Unidentified War Orphan " depicted in a poster . That evening , O'Brien comforts Stockwell , and promises the next day will bring hope in the form of a surprise . The surprise is , of course , that Stockwell becomes " The Boy with Green Hair " . This is a very unusual film , particularly for the time period ; it is both thought-provoking , and entertaining . Stockwell and O'Brien are wonderful . " Nature Boy " is a beautiful , and apt , theme song . Stockwell's meeting with the War Poster children is very well done - - still , quiet , and effective . However , the themes of " peace " and " tolerance " could be better connected . And , there are some minor story difficulties ; for example , the milkman couldn't possibly be responsible for the green hair , unless Stockwell is the only milk drinker in town ( stipulating the townspeople , as a whole , are of average intelligence ) . Still , a lovely film about being different , which we all are .
What Happened One Night	Well , it's evident why the many attempts to re-capture the spirit of this film have failed . The story really isn't all that good . What works is watching how Clark Gable ( as Peter Warne ) and Claudette Colbert ( as Ellie Andrews ) make the most of the script , with help from director Frank Capra . They play the reluctant lovers quite magically - coming across like a couple of performers having fun with the project . Possibly , the sparring of their characters parallels the two stars discovering their professional " chemistry " . There is a sense of fun ( the script calls it " screwy " ) about the film , thanks to Mr . Capra and his famous stars . Most memorable are the leading couple's " risqué " scenes - Mr . Gable baring his chest when explaining how men undress , and Ms . Colbert lifting her skirt to hitch a ride - they are sexy and tasteful . And , Roscoe Karns ' " Oscar " is worthy . The ability to create " fun " from " dumb " was improved on , in better films - but re-making this rather dated and unappealing story would obviously be futile . You can't re-make Capra , Gable , and Colbert - and that's what happened one night . It Happened One Night ( / 34 ) Frank Capra - Clark Gable , Claudette Colbert , Roscoe Karns
Laughing it Up	Winsome graduate William Haines ( as Tom Ward ) comes home , intending to enter the job market , while retaining his college lifestyle . Mr . Haines is accustomed fast cars , frequent parties , and women who don't say " No ! " While seeking employment at " Sutton & Co . " , Haines flips over pretty blonde secretary Leila Hyams ( as Mary Howe ) . But , the otherwise engaged Ms . Hyams wants nothing to do with the graduate . Although " The Girl Said No " , Haines refuses to give up . The Haines formula film , with sound , rang up the cash register for MGM . This film was the most profitable of the 1930 hits which propelled William Haines to the top of the box office charts . For the year 1930 , he was the US # 1 Male " Box Office Star " , according to the industry standard list , complied by Quigley Publications . " The Girl Said No " finds Haines graduating from college at a later age than most ( he's about the same age as Dustin Hoffman in " The Graduate " ) . Haines ' fine voice , comic timing , and physicality make the most of a weak , inappropriate , story . Highlights are Haines ' driving Hyams crazy in his car , especially when she tries to drive away without him ; and , a terrific extended session with Haines posing as Marie Dressler's doctor . Ms . Dressler ( as Hettie Brown ) is hilarious ; and , the two play extremely well together . Polly Moran also appears , as Haines ' loyal housekeeper . Haines and Moran don't have as much to do ; but , the rapport between Haines and both women should have had producers looking for a suitable co-starring vehicle . The other cast members perform well ( and stay out of Haines ' way ) . Haines has some fine moments throughout , and shares a classic scene with Dressler . The Girl Said No ( 1930 ) Sam Wood - William Haines , Leila Hyams , Marie Dressler
Tell Them Willie Boy Is Back	Unsuccessful New York pianist Timothy Hutton ( as Willie Conway ) returns to small town Knight's Ridge , Massachusetts . There , Mr . Hutton will attend his high school reunion , and consider both a career change and marriage , to his lawyer girlfriend ( Annabeth Gish ) . Hutton reconnects with childhood buds Matt Dillon ( as Tommy " Birdman " Rowland ) , Michael Rapaport ( as Paul Kirkwood ) , Noah Emmerich ( as Michael " Mo " Morris ) , and Max Perlich ( as Kev ) . Hutton also meets his new neighbor , 13-year-old Natalie Portman ( as Marty ) ; and , the two are mutually attracted . Ted Demme's " Beautiful Girls " is less about the title , and more about four men in the elongated winter of their staggered comings of age . Mr . Emmerich , a father , is the farthest along ; and , Mr . Perlich is still a child . The other three men have more interesting stories . The most intriguing is the touchingly written ( by Scott Rosenberg ) " romance " between Hutton and Ms . Portman . But , the best " story " is the secondary one performed by Mr . Dillon , who must face the fact that he reached his peak of popularity in high school , and will find more happiness being common . Mr . Rapaport's gives the film's most satisfying performance ; it's an even greater achievement , when you consider the stellar cast . It helps that snow-plowing Rapaport seems to be the right age for his part . Like Dillon's " Tommy " , Rapaport's character matures ; although , instead of realizing the " Beautiful Girl " , he favored fantasizing . Rosie O'Donnell's bombastic explanation of the idealized " Penthouse " model is a highlight . The cast may be too star-studded for the film's own good ; which is , perhaps , why some of the film's relationships are not entirely convincing . Still , the direction ( by Ted Demme ) , stories ( Rosenberg ) , and several performances , are excellent . Beautiful Girls ( 1996 ) Ted Demme - Timothy Hutton , Matt Dillon , Michael Rapaport
A Story of Past Relations	Joseph Schildkraut as ( Kenneth " Ken " Paulton ) and Jetta Goudal ( as Malena Paulton ) are honeymooning at the Grand Canyon ; but , Ms . Goudal is uninterested in consummating the marriage . This , understandably , frustrates Mr . Schildkraut , who can't explain a worsening pain in his arm . They are acquainted with the William Boyd ( as John " Jack " Moreland ) , a minister , who suggests Schildkraut ask God for relief from the hurt in his arm . Schildkraut prays for three weeks , to no avail . Meanwhile , the Reverend Boyd has met and fallen in love with Vera Reynolds ( as Elizabeth " Bess " Walsingham Tyrell ) , a " very modern young lady " who cools off when she finds out he is a minister . These four players act out their modern problems for about half the film ; THEN , fate arranges for them all to be on a train , bound for San Francisco - THEN , the train spectacularly crashes , head-on , into another train ! As the passengers whirl in the train wreckage , Reynolds is mysteriously transported back to 16th Century England . There , she finds faces which are familiar to her , but their personalities are slightly different - these are the " past lives " of her modern day friends and acquaintances . Reynolds assumes the identity of " Lady Elizabeth Tyrell " . Joseph Schildkraut is " Lord Strangevon " , William Boyd is " Reformado Jack " , and Jetta Goudal is " Black Melena " . By the time of the flashback , the film has shifted to feature Vera Reynolds as the star and protagonist ; earlier , " The Road to Yesterday " was a drama centering on the Paulton newlyweds . During the trip to the past , Reynolds ( and viewers ) discover the origins of mysterious stuff from the present . You'll see some startling events , culminating with a character being burned as a witch ! This is a very unusual film . The only story structure like it ( that I've seen ) is " Dark Shadows " TV flashback of 1967 , detailing Barnabas Collins ' 1700s origin . There is no vampire in " The Road to Yesterday " , but Schildkraut's rape of Goudal looks about the same ( attacked in a darkened room ? ) . Cecil B . DeMille directs some fine performances ; strangely , Reynolds and Boyd outdistance Schildkraut and Goudal as the film progresses . Boyd would later star as " Hopalong Cassidy " . I also enjoyed Reynolds ' less reverend fiancée , Casson Ferguson as " Adrian Thompkyns " ; and , Trixie Friganza as " Aunt Harriet , " who appears as a similar character in the past . Also , Frank Coghlan Jr . is memorable the freckle-faced boy ; he was a very popular child star , and played " Billy Batson " ( Captain Marvel ) during an incredibly long career . More potential is lost than realized in this intriguingly original film , from an older Beulah Marie Dix story - it's disappointing , ultimately , but a fascinating watch - nicely photographed by J . Peverell Marley . With some more work , it might have been one of the better DeMilles ( see " The Cheat " and " The Whispering Chorus " for great DeMilles ) . Note : After the witch is burned at the stake , a fleeting title card flashes - I freeze-framed to see , and it reads , " The Road to Yesterday - End of Part 9 " ; probably , signaling the End of Reel 9 . Also note , in the past , Reynolds character reveals she is from 1926 ; the film was released at the end of 1925 , but DeMille expected most would be watching in 1926 . The Road to Yesterday ( 1925 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Joseph Schildkraut , William Boyd , Vera Reynolds
Lewis of Arabia	William Boyd and Louis Wolheim are the " Two Arabian Knights " referred to in the title , humorously . The pair start out as U . S . POWs trying to escape from the Germans during World War I . Eventually , they find themselves on board a ship bound for Arabia . While tripping out to the Middle East , they rescue an Arab woman , Mary Astor , who turns out to be a Princess ; and , of course , becomes a romantic interest for the " Two Arabian Knights " . No points for guessing who wins the veiled Ms . Astor ! The film is very well photographed and directed ; Lewis Milestone has wonderful sets , and stages scenes beautifully . Of the performances , Mr . Wolheim stands out - he creates a character so understandable you can almost hear him speak , trough the film is silent . The story isn't as strong as it could be - there are some events and sequences which had me wondering how and why the characters ' locale changed . The last looks , exchanged between one of the stars and an extra , is an example of something I didn't understand . Perhaps these were comic bits which had a particular appeal for the time . The film is damaged in several places ; but there is enough preserved , in even these scenes , to allow your mind to fill in the visual blanks . Boris Karloff appears as the " Purser " ; watch for his big scene on ship , when Wolheim goes into a room with him for some money ( what actually happens is a mystery ) . Early in the film , there is a long scene with a lot of naked men shown from the waist up ( or , thereabouts ) ; they are POWs being herded to the showers . Director Milestone uses parades of soldiers moving to great effect ; this " shower " scene is different in that several of the men don't look as Caucasian as you might expect - maybe not as many Caucasian men would agree to appear nude ? Two Arabian Knights ( 1927 ) Lewis Milestone - William Boyd , Louis Wolheim , Mary Astor
The Undersea World of Jules Verne	While I admit the science fiction and special effects don't hold up expertly ; still , I found the film enjoyable - and , it was above average , all things considered . There are old films which have no " dated special effect " look to them - maybe it helps to be in black and white . The squid isn't that bad , and the other stuff is better . Some of the science fiction / fact considerations were more difficult to fathom . James Mason portrays Captain Nemo very well . Kirk Douglas was startling , at first , but easy to get used to - the one who I had the most difficult time with was Peter Lorre ; sometimes , he seemed to be looking around for a different movie . Finally , " 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea " scores points for being thought-provoking . I imagine the film was mainly seen by children . I wasn't around when this film came out ; but , I hope I would have been stimulated by the characters , especially the contradictory Nemo , as a kid . 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea ( 1954 ) Richard Fleischer - Kirk Douglas , James Mason , Paul Lukas
Shelley Fabares and Buzz Martin at Their Best	Pretty , popular Mary ( Shelley Fabares ) thinks she's going to the " Junior Prom " with one of the school's leading football players - left tackle Bobby Burgess ( as Ernie ) or right tackle Tom Brandt ( as Phil ) . Mary prefers Mr . Burgess , due to his " cute smile " , but must string Mr . Brandt along while waiting to see if Burgess will break up with quarreling girlfriend " Angela " . Another classmate , lovelorn Buzz Martin ( as Charlie James ) fawns over Mary , returning her library books and picking up after her . But , Mary isn't romantically interested in the goofy Mr . Martin . Ms . Fabares vaults into the series ' spotlight , with a young " Scarlett O'Hara " - type performance . Her " Mary " is tremendously appealing . At breakfast , Jeff ( Paul Peterson ) keenly observes , " She's reached the stage where her figure means more to her than hotcakes . " And , Donna ( Donna Reed ) advises her , " When you handle yourself , use your head . When you handle others , use your heart . " Although " The Donna Reed Show " has a " squeaky clean " reputation , the family members ' characterizations are quite naturally appealing . Herein , Ms . Reed , Carl Betz ( Alex ) , Fabares , and Mr . Peterson have excellent interplay . You may want to see Burgess , in a rare " acting " role apart from his two long-running stints as Disney " Mouseketeer " and " Lawrence Welk Show " dancer . But , the real attraction is Buzz Martin's hilarious portrayal of " Charlie " . He helps turn the series ' usual chuckles into laugh-out-loud moments . Martin has the series ' best comic guest appearance ( to date ) . Fabares and Martin are truly excellent . Mary's Double Date ( / 58 ) Oscar Rudolph - Shelley Fabares , Buzz Martin , Donna Reed
Kevin Bacon's Second Sight	Blue-collar lineman Kevin Bacon ( as Tom Witzky ) would have rather become a rock musician . Instead , Mr . Bacon has settled for a more ordinary life . He has just moved to a modest Chicago house , in a " decent " neighborhood . Bacon , and sexily pregnant wife Kathryn Erbe ( as Maggie Witzky ) have a mildly creepy ( but innocent looking ) young son , Zachary David Cope ( as Jake Witzky ) . Young Cope can see , and talk to , dead people . Ms . Erbe looks good in denim . She has a witchy sister , Illeana Douglas ( as Lisa Weil ) , who gets the story going , after hypnotizing Bacon into seeing dead people , too ? David Koepp's " Stir of Echoes " is a mostly effective ghost story . Bacon and the cast are terrific . Thankfully , the focus is on Bacon's protagonist , rather than kid Cody , who does not ( also , thankfully ) portray the usual annoying devil movie tot . The story is intriguing , well-paced , and nicely detailed . The " aborted kidnapping " of Cody , and " foreshadowed suicide " of Chalon Williams ( as Adam ) are two highlights . The story starts to falter when Erbe goes to find mysterious Eddie Bo Smith ( as Neil ) ; you expect the film to advance to a higher level , but the sequence ends up giving away too much . Dig it . For the " Talk About Good Taste " department : Bacon searches for the lost chords of the Rolling Stones ' " Paint it Black " ( a great version is sound-tracked , by Gob ) . Cody can't get George Romero's " Night of the Living Dead " off of his television set . And , babysitter Liza Weil ( as Debbie Kozac ) reads dog-eared paperback writer Richard Matheson's incredible " Shrinking Man " . Stir of Echoes ( 1999 ) David Koepp - Kevin Bacon , Kathryn Erbe , Zachary David Cope
Rustling Up Some Grubbs	Pretty high school dropout Jena Malone ( as Rena Grubb ) is suicidal , after being left pregnant by her boyfriend . Fortunately , Ms . Malone is ineffective at killing herself , and returns to her trailer park home . Also returning is budding gay brother Brad Renfro ( as Jay Grubb ) , fresh from four boring weeks fishing with his uncle . They , and trashy harlot sister Alicia Witt ( as Barbie ) , live with pot-smoking mom Michelle Forbes ( as Madge Grubb ) . Prompted by Malone , the family four decide to attend an annual prison picnic , to see absent father Chris Mulkey ( as John Grubb ) , who is serving time for two murders . At the picnic , the reunited Grubbs are joined by Mr . Mulkey's prison pal Clifton Collins Jr . ( as Buddy ) . Then , skeletons begin falling out of the family closet ? " We crawl on our bellies and eat the dead , " is how Mr . Renfro describes the Grubb family . Jordan Brady's " American Girl " has some good moments , and is well-acted . But , the " dark comedy " aspect doesn't really succeed ; it might have been better to film Scott Sandoe's story as a drama . Director Brady is at his best when the family begins their picnic . Malone does a great job with her character's less suicidal , more introspective moments ; the growth of her romanticism to rage is very nicely played . Renfro's character is hardly second rate ; and , without the numerous suicide attempts , it's a more satisfying story . Renfro , and the film , are helped immensely by the appearance of Mr . Collins Jr . ' s sex " Buddy " . Clifton Collins Jr . is definitely " Best Supporting Actor " worthy . American Girl ( / 02 ) Jordan Brady - Jena Malone , Brad Renfro , Clifton Collins Jr .
High Noon for Elvis Presley	Elvis Presley plays an ex-gunman who has decided to reform . His decision is not well-received by his old gang . They beat him up , and enforce a grisly revenge - they " brand " him , to give him a scar identical to a man WANTED in two countries ( Mexico and the USA ) . The " branding " is , possibly , the most gruesome scene you'll see in a Elvis movie . This film has a classic Western Plot : Elvis is the representation of the Law - Badman gone good , friend of the Sheriff , and rival for a woman ( Ina Balin ) . Elvis has imprisoned the brother of the Badman ( Solomon Sturges , son of Preston ) . Head Badman Victor French is big brother to the jailed one . Mr . French has a deadly cannon - he says , " Release my brother , or I will blow up your town ! " This movie is too rough-around-the-edges to be extraordinary ; and , it doesn't tread on much new ground . It does , however , create a world of its own ; if you let yourself into this world , you will be entertained for the run of the film . In that way , it's like many westerns - and as good as several " classic " John Wayne films . Again , this is a rough-around-the-edges film - my vote for the roughest edges are : The background music is too hokey and repetitive ; and , I found the Sheriff's wife's betrayal too abrupt to be believable - it is interesting in that it shows the relationship between Elvis and the Sheriff is stronger than the relationship between the Sheriff and his wife ; although Elvis ' first intent is to meet the Badman's demands by releasing the prisoner , he decides to honor the Sheriff's wishes . The title song is very good ; appropriately , there are no additional songs . The performances are fine - I would taken a little more time creating this film ; still , everything about it ranges from adequate to professional . It sounds like an apology ( because Elvis Presley made so many awful films ) , but I enjoyed " Charro ! " Charro ! ( 1969 ) Charles Marquis Warren - Elvis Presley , Ina Balin , Victor French
The Iron Masque of Death	Intermittently exciting " Musketeers " tale , highlighted by the " Jekyll-Hyde " performance of Louis Hayward as the King of France and his undiscovered ( then , discovered ) twin brother . Mr . Hayward does a great job ; especially when the " Good " twin confronts the " Evil " twin with his " Iron Mask " . " The Man in the Iron Mask " might have been better as a swashbuckling horror story ; and , director James Whale could have delivered the goods . The Iron Mask of the title is designed for Edgar Allen Poe-type horror ? it is locked around a Hayward's neck , so that he will slowly be strangled by his own beard . A gruesome death ! I expected a little more excitement , and suspense , in this film . The other characters are enjoyable ; Joseph Schildkraut was my favorite supporting character . Joan Bennett is the beautiful love interest , but she doesn't have much of an opportunity to show any acting skills . By the way , her scene in the coach shows her looking very much like Scarlet O'Hara from " Gone with the Wind . " After seeing her in this , you can picture her testing for Scarlett . The Man in the Iron Mask ( / 39 ) James Whale - Louis Hayward , Joan Bennett , Joseph Schildkraut
Uneven Exchange	In the slums of 16th century London , young Billy Mauch ( as " Pauper " Tom Canty ) makes the most of his life as a beggar ; though , he is beaten by his father , and thrown in the mud . Meanwhile , royal Bobby Mauch ( as " Prince " Edward VI ) lives a life of luxury ; soon , he will replace father King Henry VIII on the throne . One evening , Pauper Mauch takes refuge from a storm on Prince Mauch's palace grounds . The look-alike boys meet , and strike up a friendship . Prince Mauch invites Pauper Mauch over to the palace , where the two become intrigued by their different lifestyles , and identical appearance . After they exchange clothing , they become separated , by happenstance . When nobody believes their stories , the boys are forced to assume each other's identities . This is a well-produced version of the Mark Twain classic . Sadly , the unevenly paced scenario does not produce the film classic which was , evidently , possible ( considering those involved ) . The " Mauch Twins " and Claude Rains ( as the Earl of Hertford ) are especially strong in their portrayals ; and , Erich Wolfgang Korngold's soundtrack should be noted . Don't expect to see top-billed Errol Flynn ( as Miles Hendon ) until later in the film , as a supporting player . Alan Hale , Barton MacLane , Henry Stephenson , and Montagu Love are also worth noting ; but , the film's main strengths are Mr . Rains , Mr . Korngold , and the " Mauch Twins " . The Prince and the Pauper ( 1937 ) William Keighley - Billy Mauch , Bobby Mauch , Errol Flynn
Tol'able Tingler	The monster in this film is very tacky , by today's standards . You get to see too much of " The Tingler " for it to instill any real fear . The film , however , creates a world of its own ; hence , my rating is higher than I would have expected . Director Castle does great stuff with the slight budget he has , especially with the swell blood red sequence . The film is thoughtful , albeit scientifically ill-conceived . I found it most interesting that the theater is showing " Tol'able David " . That fact is revealed early on , and , sure enough , we get to see the excellent climax of " Tol'able David " . I thought it was very clever of the writers use the setting of a silent movie theater because , of course , Richard Barthelmess ' David can't be heard screaming - - no character will scream in a SILENT movie . Mr . Price and the theater owner are underdeveloped characters . I would have liked more motivation for their actions . It was great to see Darryl Hickman ( as David Morris ) in a supporting role . I wish Price's wife would have been eaten by ? the Tingler ! The Tingler ( 1959 ) William Castle - Vincent Price , Judith Evelyn , Darryl Hickman
The " Gill-Man " Gets His Sea Legs	In South America , ecologist Antonio Moreno ( as Carl Maia ) leads an expedition ; he is startled to find a webbed , but human-like , hand protruding from a rock . Mr . Moreno snaps the fossil from the rock , and brings it to ichthyologist Richard Carlson ( as David Reed ) , for examination . Mr . Carlson is intrigued by the hand , and wants to find more of the Creature's remains . Carlson is also enamored with bushy-eyed beauty Julie Adams ( as Kay Lawrence ) ; but , so is Carlson's wealthy colleague Richard Denning ( as Mark Williams ) . The group decide to boat the Amazon , and find the Creature ? Created by Milicent Patrick ( with Jack Kevan and Chris Mueller ) , the " Creature from the Black Lagoon " ( or " Gill-Man " ) made a big splash at the box office . Much of the time , the film displays a rushed , " low-budget " quality ; and , it was made for viewing in " 3-D " glasses . Still , the movie entertains . The " Creature " is conceptually quite interesting ; and , he has a great " look " . More importantly , the title character has personality . Mainly , this is due to his obvious attraction to Ms . Adams ' character . Perhaps , he was the last of his type , and was responding to the mating urge ? The underwater photography , by William Snyder , is superior . It's nice to see Moreno , a former " silent film " star , among the supporting players . Future " Flipper " producer Ricou Browning performs swimmingly alongside Adams . Mr . Browning was the underwater " Creature " , and Ben Chapman served as the surface " Gill-Man " . Only Browning returned , for the two sequels : " Revenge of the Creature " and " The Creature Walks Among Us " . Watch out ! Creature from the Black Lagoon ( 1954 ) Jack Arnold - Richard Carlson , Julie Adams , Antonio Moreno
All About Bette	Somerset Maugham's characters are brought to life in RKO's " Of Human Bondage " ; but the movie is a too skeletal version of the novel , with Bette Davis ' star-making performance sucking up all of the energy . Otherwise , it's the story of Leslie Howard ( as Philip Carey ) ; he dreams of becoming a painter , but is told he has no talent for the arts . As the film progresses , Mr . Howard's struggles , instead , to become a doctor . His efforts seem to indicate some bad advice regarding the arts ; though successful in medicine , his painting seemed easier - - also , note the symbolism of his disability , a " club foot " ( explained in the film ) . Along the way ( right away , in this version ) , Howard becomes infatuated with waitress Davis ( as Mildred Rogers ) . Davis ' characterization of " Mildred " is extraordinary , culminating in a spectacular speech , when she tells Howard , among other things , that she had to " WIPE MY MOUTH ! " after kissing him . Howard also performs well , but the story fails to explain his prolonged fascination and love for Davis ; so , their performances are wasted . Still , a film to watch for the acting , including some good supporting players . Bette Davis ' characterization was famous for inspiring a " write-in " campaign for the 1934 " Best Actress " Academy Award . For the record , she placed third . The results were : 1 . Claudette Colbert - " It Happened One Night " 2 . Norma Shearer - " The Barretts of Wimpole Street " 3 . Bette Davis - " Of Human Bondage " 4 . Grace Moore - " One Night of Love "
The Land Around Bing	Musical stage star Bing Crosby ( as Frank Elgin ) is all washed-up in the theater ; after the accidental death of his son , he seeks solace in alcohol . Mr . Crosby's dowdy wife of ten years , Grace Kelly ( as Georgie Elgin ) , is both domineering and co-dependent . Ex-hat check boy , and Cosby fan , William Holden ( as Bernie Dodd ) becomes overly involved with the pair , while steering Cosby's boozy comeback . Mr . Holden is as dependable as always . Ms . Kelly is good , but sometimes too obvious in showing frumpiness . Surprisingly , Cosby , the least heralded dramatic actor of the threesome , outperforms his illustrious co-stars ; he really crawls beneath the surface of his character , and manages to make an almost tuneless , lackluster story much more interesting . The Country Girl ( 1954 ) George Seaton - Bing Crosby , Grace Kelly , William Holden
Three Hoodlum Musketeers	Great opportunity to see three of the biggest child actors of the 1930s , at different stages in their careers . The 1930s started with Jackie Cooper on top ; then , mid-decade , Freddie Bartholomew ruled ; and , finally , Mickey Rooney reigned . This film was made during Mr . Bartholomew's peak of popularity . After some promising scenes , it becomes obvious Bartholomew , Cooper , and Rooney are not being well served by the production . Some of their scenes appear rushed ; at times , it looks as if they are rehearsing alongside each other , rather than acting together . Possibly , this is due to director W . S . Van Dyke being assigned to the film , after the firing of Rowland Brown . Mr . Van Dyke was known for his sometimes hurried direction . Still , the actors are professional , and earnest ; and , some on-screen rapport is in evidence . Rowland Brown's story is excellent - - much more realistic than several similar 1930s " young hoodlum " dramas . Rooney gets the best part ; and , naturally , he makes the most of it ; scene stealers Bartholomew and Cooper wouldn't have missed a similar opportunity . This is one of Rooney's best-written , best-performed early roles ; he is a terrific actor , and his portrayal of " Gig Stevens " should be more renown . Writer Brown , fired as the film's director , would go on to pen " Angels with Dirty Faces " . With some more care , this film might have been as classic .
Abraham Lincoln Achieves Griffith Sainthood	If one were to commission a film depicting the life of Abraham Lincoln , in 1930 , one might well produce this film ; and , one would be very satisfied with the resulting " Abraham Lincoln " , both artistically , and commercially . Today , however , this is not a very exciting film . It succeeds somewhat as a series of staged vignettes , depicting stories about President Lincoln . Walter Huston is given the difficult job of portraying the revered Lincoln , and he excels , after a shaky start . Director D . W . Griffith employs a fine supporting cast , with mixed results . Early scenes are hampered by the characterizations offered by Una Merkel ( as Ann Rutledge ) and Kay Hammond ( as Mary Todd ) ; these are " the romances " of Lincoln's life ; and , they are awful . The courtship scenes involving Mr . Huston and Ms . Merkel are particularly absurd . Henry B . Walthall is notable , later on ; but . he doesn't have much to do . It might have been interesting to see Mr . Walthall play John Wilkes Booth - - admittedly , this was an unlikely consideration at the time ; and , Ian Keith is perfectly suitable in the role . Walthall graciously supports Hobart Bosworth ( as Robert E . Lee ) during his screen time ; and , Mr . Bosworth is outstanding . There is no mystery in the main story elements : he was born in a log cabin , and is assassinated in the end . Griffith acquaints himself well with " sound " in a film , though , in hindsight , it is a technical weakness . There are moments , or flashes , of " greatness " in the film , but they don't contribute to a collective work of consequence . Griffith treats Lincoln with a reverence that is oddly uncomfortable ; by the film's end , the story structure confirms Lincoln has become Divine . The ending reprise of " Glory ! Glory ! Hallelujah ! His truth is marching on . . . " nicely evokes both " John Brown's Body " and the " Battle Hymn of the Republic . " An appropriate connection . Abraham Lincoln ( 1930 ) D . W . Griffith - Walter Huston , Kay Hammond , Hobart Bosworth
Who's Afraid of Bette Davis ?	" The Catered Affair " was the movie adaptation of a Paddy Chayefsky's TV drama , which starring Thelma Ritter and Pat Henning . I'm guessing this was made due to the success of Ernest Borgnine's " Marty " . The film is interesting in its depiction of a different time , when the ceremonial aspects of weddings were very strange . Today , I doubt these people would go on and on about such trivialities . But , then , there were certain " ways " people married . There are some terrific " period " scenes . The Hurley's home is a real time trip . Great kitchen ! I loved the scene when Bette Davis takes in the frozen laundry from a clothesline outside her window . Ms . Davis totally commands the film - at times , her presence is overbearing . Her performance is excellent , but sometimes veers very close to going over-the-top . Ernest Borgnine , Debbie Reynolds , and Barry Fitzgerald hold their own in Davis ' presence . I believe , due to the presence of Bette Davis , the film should have been altered to focus more on her character . Reworked , this could have been Davis ' " Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? " You really have to pay attention to get what the film is really about - there is one instance where Davis ' own wedding is explained . There should be more about both Davis's dwelling on the past , and Borgnine's hopes for the future . The Catered Affair ( 1956 ) Richard Brooks - Bette Davis , Ernest Borgnine , Debbie Reynolds
Jurassic Start	" This was the first screen adaptation of the Sir Arthur Conan Doyle story of prehistoric creatures still alive on a remote Amazon plateau . An expedition is lead ( sic ) by Professor Challenger and consists of a newspaper reporter , a big-game hunter , and his servant as well as the daughter of the plateau's discoverer , who is still stranded in this uncharted land . After a long journey , the group finds the prehistoric land and encounters all kinds of remarkable plants , dinosaurs , and ape-like men , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Arthur Conan Doyle's " The Lost World " makes its impressive movie debut ; the creatures , characters , and situations continue to be imitated , with no end in sight . Oddly enough , this silent version is a case where the original is not the greatest . Herein , the creatures and humans are not scripted , directed , or edited to full advantage ; at times , it seems as if the characters are watching a dinosaur movie . More interaction between dinosaur and human was difficult , but possible ; a similar lack of contact between apeman and human is inexplicable . The possibilities lost in this outing would be found , to the extreme , in " King Kong " ( 1933 ) ; a film which makes excellent use of Willis O'Brien's extraordinary stop motion animation effects . That film certainly takes fuller advantage of human / animal interaction . " The Lost World " adds Bessie Love ( as Paula White ) , to up the expedition's romance level . Ms . Love's character wasn't even in the original novel ; so , it's an understandably weak addition . However , she helps adventurer Lewis Stone ( as John Roxton ) give the film's best performance ; as his longing for Love is just about the only interesting " non-creature " element . Wallace Beery ( as Professor Challenger ) and Lloyd Hughes ( as Edward Malone ) are good , as the film's other leading players . Unfortunately , the film includes not only explicit , but also implicit racially insensitive and inaccurate images .
The Eyes of Clara Are Upon You	Clara Kimball Young ( as Gina Ashling ) is at a crossroads in her life - - she has a promising operatic voice , and is invited to pursue a career in Paris ; her family , however , wants her to remain at home and help support the family . She is also being courted by a wealthy man ; however , she does not love him , and would only be marrying for financial security . ENTER a disciple from the East - - the spiritual-type Hindu ( played by Vincent Serrano , he is introduced in the film's opening ) ; he arrives to show Ms . Kimball Young his Crystal Ball - - in which she sees her future . This is an impressively mounted silent film production , with a great cast , and an ambitious story structure . The mysterious Hindu man's crystal ball provides heroine Kimball Young ( and movie viewers ) the opportunity to " see " three different future scenarios : In " The Path of Duty " she stays with the family and becomes a schoolteacher . In " The Path of Ambition " she pursues her operatic singing career . In " The Path of Wealth " she marries for money and security . You may believe a Hindu can show Kimball Young the future in a crystal ball - - but , some of the unfolding events , and choices , strain credulity . Schoolteachers and career-women are wretched creatures ! Kimball Young's performance is the film's highlight . She is not consistently great ; but , her best scenes are enough to explain her status as one of the decade's top actresses . For example , in a " Duty " scene , she checks her aged appearance in a mirror effectively . Her best work occurs in the film's final " Wealth " segment - - incredibly , she transforms herself into a gaunt , drug-addicted street-walker . The scenes with the desolate Kimball Young walking rain-drenched streets are convincing , and artful . Director Albert Parker and Kimball Young are assisted by a fine supporting cast - - the Ashling family includes brother Gareth Hughes , sister Pauline Starke , and father Sam Southern . Kimball Young's suitors include Milton Sills , Edmund Lowe , and Ralph Lewis - - all performing well . The most notable supporting player , in hindsight , is Rudolph Valentino as smarmy " Cabaret Parasite " Clarence Morgan ; he further elevates the film's fine " Path of Wealth " segment . Valentino watchers should note he appears about 50 minutes into the production . Eyes of Youth ( / 19 ) Albert Parker - Clara Kimball Young , Edmund Lowe , Rudolph Valentino
Gloria Swanson and the Onion Man	Gloria Swanson ( as Leila Porter ) is an understandably bored wife . Workaholic husband Elliott Dexter ( as James Denby Porter ) has " lost his romance " along with his waistline ; he also smokes cigars in bed , eats onions , and snores . He can barely remember his own anniversary - - which is attended by caddish Lew Cody ( as Schuyler Van Sutphen ) ; the younger man eyes Ms . Swanson's voluptuous figure , and flirts unabashedly . Soon , Swanson is drawn to Mr . Cody . Then , Mr . Dexter decides to try and get her back . Who will win ? The three principals are fine , with Swanson most impressive in the pivotal role as the woman torn . Julia Faye grabs supporting honors as Cody's other interest , " Toodles " ; off-screen , she tempted director Cecil B . DeMille . The DeMille touch is evident ; especially in an imaginary sequence wherein Cody promises Swanson . . . " Pleasure ? Wealth ? Love ? " Don't Change Your Husband ( 1919 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Gloria Swanson , Elliott Dexter , Lew Cody
It Could Have Been Me	The story of an obscene phone caller , herein given the technical term : " The Telephone Psychotic " ; who , it is suggested , follows the natural course taken by these individuals , and becomes a homicidal killer . That does seem like a stretch , but the content of the calls certainly points in that direction . And , some of the discourse rings true . The ( believable ) fact that the obscene caller probably knows his victim makes it a more frightening . There are a lot of problems with the story ; mainly , it really isn't about an obscene " Telephone Psychotic " caller ; rather , it is about a stalker who uses to phone . Sal Mineo ( as Lawrence " Larry " Sherman ) creates an interesting character ; but , his considerable abilities as an actor do not equate with the inferior material . Mr . Mineo is , of course , the stalker . The film's structure seems to " tease " a little about the stalker's identity ; but , it is fairly obvious from the opening credits . Could the very fit young man , clad in tight briefs , possibly be co-star Jan Murray ( as Dave Madden ) ? Mineo's well-defined body is displayed very prominently throughout the film . And , he is photographed in a manner usually reserved , relatively speaking , for attractive female performers . The climax for Mineo watchers will be the pool scene occurring after his gym workout . Be sure to look for uncut prints , because the scene is trimmed in cut versions . Not to be left out , beautiful Juliet Prowse ( the object of his affection ) has a couple of sexy underwear scenes of her own ; but , they are not as lovingly shot as Mineo's . After the camera admires Mineo's body , so does Ms . Prowse ; and , she tells him , point-blank , that he has a great body . The two of them , although they are supposed to be in cinematic opposition ( stalker / victim ) are great together . Whether flirting , dancing , or struggling , they display great synergy . Elaine Stritch ( as Marian Freeman ) is another in the cast who deserved a better production . Ms . Stritch has been quoted as explaining , " I was a lesbian owner of a disco who fell in love with Juliet Prowse and got strangled on 93rd Street and East End Avenue with a silk stocking by Sal Mineo . Now who's not going to play to play that part ? " Stritch gets to tell Prowse , " I dig soft things , " and makes a small pass at the young woman ( her employee , by the way ) . Prowse's character overreacts , which leads directly to Stritch's death . Also disturbing ( probably intentionally ) is officer Murray's 10-year-old daughter listening in on her father's sex tapes . When she sees Prowse , she asks her dad , " Is she a hooker ? " This parallels a situation in Mineo's home . In fact , Mineo , Murray , and Stritch's characters are related to each other in symbolic ways ; and , they all desire Prowse ( who desires Mineo ) . At least , the story is an interesting failure . The New York City locations are great ; the movie brought Michael Chapman to filmdom . The dancing of Sal Mineo and high-heeled Juliet Prowse during the " It Could Have Been Me " song is a swimming classic ( or , should have been ) . Who Killed Teddy Bear ( 1965 ) Joseph Cates - Sal Mineo , Juliet Prowse , Elaine Stritch
Ballad of a Thin Man	To celebrate the coming of age eighteen , boyish virgin Andre Noble ( as Cliff ) hits the streets , with a bottle of vodka and a joint . His nighttime cruising leads Mr . Noble directly to handsome bisexual hustler Brendan Fehr ( as Butch ) . For Noble , it's love at first sight - but , Mr . Fehr has locked his closet with drugs and denial . Can two gay young men find love in a repressive society ? The answer to that question should be obvious ( which is unfortunate on more than one level ) . Although you can't ( as yet ) rattle off a series of mega-popular " coming of age " gay romances , the topic has been approached enough to make much of what happens in " Sugar " expected . But , the film is so well cast , and covers most of its ground so believably ( based on stories told by Bruce La Bruce ) , it overcomes the predictable . John Palmer's " Sugar " is sweetest when Noble and Fehr are interacting on screen - it's a typical " anti-romance " ; but , the two play it as well as James Dean and Sal Mineo might have . Little sister Haylee Wanstall ( as Cookie ) and mom Marnie McPhail ( as Madge ) are an unimaginably kwel family . Some graphic sexual content is integral to the film - one standout scene involves Fehr compassionately satisfying an obese woman ( Pat Butcher ) - another ( with Michael Riley ) illustrates Fehr's inability to " legitimately " consummate his love for Noble . They are filmed well ; but , was it really necessary to have everyone except the two lead actors go full frontal in the limo ? In a tragedy having nothing to do with the plot of " Sugar " , Noble died , shortly after its premiere . He would have , obviously , had additional success as an actor . Fehr bravely essays his role as the object of Noble's affection . By the way , his question to Noble about the " last time " is his directive / permission to move on . . . " We had fun , didn't we ? " Yeah , it might have been a little scary , but it was fun . Sugar ( 2004 ) John Palmer - Andre Noble , Brendan Fehr , Haylee Wanstall
Lon Chaney Gets Bent Out of Shape	London's Limehouse District , " with its lust , greed , and love , " lightly blankets its citizens in a sea of fog . There , ambidextrous Lon Chaney ( as Dan Tate ) successfully spends his nights thieving as " The Blackbird " ; and , otherwise , masquerading as his own benevolent , but deformed , brother " The Bishop " . Mr . Chaney likes to visit the local pub , where he falls for charming French entertainer Renée Adorée ( as Fifi Lorraine ) . But , Ms . Adorée also attracts suave Owen Moore ( as Bertram P . Glayde ) . Mr . Moore is a rival crook , who goes by the name " West End Bertie " . So , conniving Chaney uses his respectable " Bishop " disguise to come between the increasingly more successful Adorée-Moore romance . This is a formulaic Browning / Chaney film , featuring one of the versatile actor's lesser " disguises " . For his transformation , Cheney twists an arm and a leg out of shape . It's more difficult than it looks to walk around in the disjointed position . Of course , Chaney's performance is outstanding . In particular , watch his reaction shots , which are incredibly accurate in mirroring whatever he is looking at , or reacting to . Co-stars Moore and Adorée also shine . Adorée had just been seen in " The Big Parade " , and Moore has one of his meatier 1920s roles . Also enjoyable is Doris Lloyd ( as " Limehouse " Polly ) , the ex-wife who loves Chaney . The Blackbird ( 1926 ) Tod Browning - Lon Chaney , Owen Moore , Renée Adorée
There Were Giants in the Earth	Kerwin Mathews ( as Sinbad ) and his crew must undertake a dangerous mission , at the behest of Magician Torin Thatcher ( as Sokurah ) . In return , the sorcerer promises to restore Mr . Mathews ' shrunken fiancée Kathryn Grant ( as Princess Parisa ) to normal size . Among other daring feats , Mathews must retrieve an eggshell from the Roc , a giant two-headed bird . Boy Genie Richard Eyer ( as Baronni ) is around , when summoned , to help out . Ray Harryhausen's special effects are the acknowledged " star " ; but , most of the cast , led by the heroic Mathews and the villainous Thatcher , are perfect . The color photography ( Wilkie Cooper ) and soundtrack ( Bernard Herrmann ) are also outstanding . Overall , the film's story lacks a certain cohesiveness , however ; and , the skeletal duel near the film's end was notably outdone , by the filmmakers ' own " Jason and the Argonauts " ( 1963 ) . Still , " The 7th Voyage of Sinbad " serves up classic afternoon adventure . Especially memorable is Harryhausen's hungry Cyclops ; literally , he's a creature to die for .
A Woman and Her Money Are Soon Parted	Three Russian aristocrats lease a villa from which they can luxuriously enjoy Monte Carlo . They are : maid-pinching Maude George ( as Princess Olga Petchnikoff ) , blonde-wigged Mae Busch ( as Princess Vera Petchnikoff ) , and monocled lady-killer Erich von Stroheim ( as Count Wladislaw Sergius Karamzin ) . You should also keep an eye on their foolish maid , Dale Fuller ( as Maruschka ) . Mr . von Stroheim is the film's star , director , and writer . It becomes obvious the trio are really counterfeiting con artists . The gang of three are intrigued by the notice of the arrival of American Envoy Rudolph Christians ( as Andrew J . Hughes ) and his wife Miss DuPont ( as Helen ) ; they decide to strike up a societal acquaintanceship with the Americans , to help provide cover for their swindling . Then , von Stroheim shows Ms . DuPont his stiff cane , and give her bare legs a leer ? Have a great laugh when Ms . DuPont , while applying her face cream , declares she is twenty-one years old ; husband's reply he that is a sun-burned forty-one shows he can shave off years with the best of them . Mr . Christians died during the production , and his white-haired replacement , back to the camera , is obvious ; with all the expense obviously spent on " Foolish Wives " , it's difficult to understand why von Stroheim could not add a little bit of cheap shoe polish to Robert Edeson's head . There are other problems with the story , which was brutally cut down from a multi-hour epic . Still , the studio heads could not cut the neither the length of von Stroheim's cigarettes , nor the fact that his ( vanity ) production of " Foolish Wives " retains its spectacle .
Better Run Through the Jungle	" In 1965 , an American pilot on a top-secret bombing mission was shot down over Laos and taken to a hellish prison camp deep in the impenetrable jungle of Vietnam . What followed was one of the most remarkable and harrowing experiences of the entire Vietnam War . Inspired by the true story of Dieter Dengler ( Christian Bale ) and written and directed by internationally acclaimed filmmaker Werner Herzog , ' Rescue Dawn ' is an uncanny tale of camaraderie and betrayal , courage in the face of despair , and triumph over tragedy . It stands as a true testament to the impossible boundaries of the human condition and the invincibility of the American spirit , " according to the official synopsis . " Empty that which is full . Fill that which is empty . " As it is based on a true story , Werner Herzog's " Rescue Dawn " is convincing in its characterization of " Dieter Dengler " and his experiences as a Vietnam War POW . The jungle ( Thailand for Laos ) setting and nameless Asian extras give the film a very realistic landscape . And , fictionalized " artistic license " is in capable hands with Mr . Herzog , photographer Peter Zeitlinger , and editor Joe Bini . Oddly , there isn't much to suggest the 1965-set film couldn't have taken place in 1985 or 2005 - the World Series is briefly mentioned , but nobody mentions JFK , Cassius Clay , James Bond , or the Beatles ; and , there are no soundtrack hits ( the music , by Klaus Badelt , is absolutely a plus , though ) . " Let the people know my wisdom . Fill the land with smoke . " Criticisms do not detract from the story , however , which is elevated from a Vietnam War movie to a more universal story of conflict , friendship , and survival . The setting is secondary to the characters ' relationships , and the triumph of the human spirit . Mr . Bale and the cast embody rather than act their characters . As fellow prisoners maddeningly afflicted with more years in the POW camp , Steve Zahn ( as Duane Martin ) and Jeremy Davies ( as Gene DeBruin ) are best supporting actors . The scene where Bale hallucinates returning Mr . Zhan's shoe quite effectively illustrates the guilt , love , and madness of war . Rescue Dawn ( / 06 ) Werner Herzog - Christian Bale , Steve Zahn , Jeremy Davies
Stranger in Town	Spencer Tracy is an old one-armed man who goes to town in " Bad Day at Black Rock " . He wants to give a medal to an old war buddy's father ( who saved his life ) . I was a little confused by this backstory ; I wondered why everyone didn't just tell Mr . Tracy his friend's father passed away . Now , that I think about it , I'm sure the filmmakers must have wanted us to think Tracy's character was much younger . That , and one of Tracy's almost super-human feats , are the film's major flaws . Otherwise , it's great . Tracy's performance carried the film - he is an immediate visual intrusion on this old western-style town ; instead of western gear , he wears a regular suit . Although it's a dark suit , Tracy's performance relays the fact that he is the " good guy " . John Sturges does an excellent job directing ; I've seen the Sturges credit on a number of films , and believe this may be his best . Robert Ryan and the citizens of Black Rock work very well indeed with Sturges and Tracy . This is a film I'm looking forward to seeing again . Bad Day at Black Rock ( 1955 ) John Sturges - Spencer Tracy , Robert Ryan , Anne Francis
Tobey Maguire's Back , Spinning Another Web	The " Spider-Man 2 " movie is just a shade better than the first - which , in series films , is a cause for tremendous celebration . Happily , producers were able to pay director Sam Raimi and his main cast however many millions of dollars they needed . . . Also , the first film's " special effects " ( however well done ) seemed too startlingly change from live action to animation . This is still fairly obvious , but done much more smoothly ; and , the " Dr . Octopus " villain costume is a cinematic success . Like they say , " ( special effects director John ) Frazier is especially effective ( along with over a hundred helpers ) . " Allowing for a comic book aficionado to be a little too critical , it does seem like an extraordinary amount of time is spent on illustrating the " downtrodden " life of " Peter Parker " ( which is the main plot , I know , but it's a very large chunk of the movie ) . And , although Tobey Maguire ( as Peter Parker ) is wonderful in the role , he and Kirsten Dunst ( as Mary Jane Watson ) aren't going to be able to convincingly play " Peter " and " M . J . " as " teenagers in love " much longer . It will be interesting to see how producers continue this relationship , which seems to be , herein , necessary for " Spider-Man " to remain fully powerful . Alfred Molina ( as Otto Octavius ) rises to the challenge of playing the " visual effects " - enhanced villain role . Handsome " best friend " James Franco ( as Harry Osborn ) returns , to hint at becoming the new " Green Goblin " ; as in the first film , the actor doesn't seem to be used to his potential ( although , it looks like he will get a chance to put on a costume in the next film ) . My " No-Prize Awards " winners include : Elyse Dinh for playing the " friendly neighborhood Spider-Man " theme song , Rosemary Harris for being " Aunt May " , Hal Sparks for being so funny , and Stan Lee for believing in Super-Heroes . Spider-Man 2 ( 2004 ) Sam Raimi - Tobey Maguire , Kirsten Dunst , Alfred Molina
Writing on the Wall	" It Happened Tomorrow " could have stood a better beginning - the choice to introduce the story with elderly Dick Powell and Linda Darnell ( as Larry and Sylvia Smith ) celebrating 50 years of wedded bliss sacrifices the story's surprises . The film does possess the light touch required to make the framing sequence charming . But , director René Clair and Mr . Powell build an unexpectedly good level of suspense regarding Powell's courtship , and mortality . They are so good , you can almost forget how much the opening gives away ? Watch for a thoroughly delightful ( and unfortunately rare ) performance by sagely John Philliber ( as " Pop " Benson ) . He plays the keeper of the " Evening News " " morgue " ( a place where newspapers keep obituaries and other files ) . Possibly , Mr . Philliber had read his own notice ; he died in 1944 . Powell was also able to read the writing on the wall , and saved his fledgling career by pursuing more interesting roles ( like this one ) . Jackie Oakie and Edgar Kennedy are also on board . A subtle celebration of life , and its mysteries . It Happened Tomorrow ( / 44 ) René Clair - Dick Powell , Linda Darnell , John Philliber
It's Only Make Believe	In depression-era Kansas , Bible selling con man Ryan O'Neal ( as Moses Pray ) takes 10-year-old Tatum O'Neal ( as Addie Loggins ) from her mother's funeral , to locate an aunt in Missouri . Along the way , the father and daughter figures find something more important . Peter Bogdanovich's direction , László Kovács ' beautiful black and white photography , and the nostalgic soundtrack help put " Paper Moon " over . The O'Neals are at their very best - - full advantage of their genetic harmony is taken ; and , it's not an idea that always works , on screen . Madeline Kahn ( as Trixie Delight ) heads up an outstanding supporting cast . Mr . Bogdanovich's vision of Joe David Brown's " Paper Moon " may not always find its place on the " comedy-drama " scale ; but , it's still an excellent film . Paper Moon ( 1973 ) Peter Bogdanovich - Ryan O'Neal , Tatum O'Neal , Madeline Kahn
Something to Crow About	Former outlaw John Wayne ( as " Rooster " Cogburn ) is one tough U . S . Marshall . He is , however , one-eyed , overweight , old , and ( probably ) alcoholic . That doesn't matter to Kim Darby ( as Mattie Ross ) , because Mr . Wayne has " ? grit , true grit " . So , Ms . Darby gives him $25 . 00 to catch the man who murdered her father . To catch the killer , Wayne teams up with Glen Campbell ( as " La Boeuf " ) , a Texas Ranger who is also interested in capturing elusive Jeff Corey ( as Tom Chaney ) . The men are reluctantly saddled with young Darby ; and , the three set out on an increasingly dangerous hunt ? " True Grit " features one of the best later decades Wayne characterizations , showing how well the actor could handle a good role , when one was provided . Another reason for the film's success is the contrast of Wayne with plucky Darby , who serves as both business partner and thematic nemesis . Wayne knew his box office power was kept high with " generation gap " casts ; and , " Grit " is further enhanced by Mr . Campbell , the then hot young country singer . Even better , in hindsight , are gun-swingers Robert Duvall and Dennis Hopper . Marguerite Roberts ' screenplay and Lucien Ballard's cinematography are first class . You've got to see Darby horse-trading with Strother Martin . And , Wayne's meeting with his " Four Horsemen " is classic .
Some Must Watch	A serial murderer is on the loose , in a New England town . The killer's latest victim succumbs as maid / companion Dorothy McGuire ( as Helen ) enjoys one of the town theater's latest silent movie " flickers " , directed by D . W . Griffith . Her employers , the wealthy Warren family , believe Ms . McGuire's life is in danger , as she is a mute ; and , all the victims have suffered from a disability . Their concerns are , of course , dead on . " The Spiral Staircase " is as unpredictable as the sunrise ; and , McGuire's physical condition , ( presumably , she's a self-inflicted mute ) strains credulity to extreme limits - but , the film's direction , performances , and overall style are so well-done , it doesn't matter . Director Robert Siodmak and star McGuire are beautifully matched . Steadfast George Brent ( as Albert Warren ) and nipping Elsa Lanchester ( as Mrs . Oates ) lead the charge , in choice roles . But , Ethel Barrymore ( as Mrs . Warren ) is especially commanding ; she acts up a storm , though confined to a sick bed . Barrymore's cranky , creepy , and perceptive performance is the film's most riveting . By the way , the silent film McGuire sees during the opening murder is not " The Kiss " , but " The Sands of Dee " ( 1912 ) , starring Mae Marsh and Robert Harron . Ms . Marsh does receive a fateful kiss in the old film , but it is not shown . " The Spiral Staircase " picks up with Marsh being thrown out of the house by her parents , after a fling with a painter . Mr . Harron is the young man who frantically searches for his departed love . Harron was one of the 1910s best actors ( perhaps the best ) ; and , the emotions he helps elicit from McGuire's " Helen " ring true . The Spiral Staircase ( 1945 ) Robert Siodmak - Dorothy McGuire , George Brent , Ethel Barrymore
Get Larry Cohen on the Line	" What if someone's life was literally on the line and the power to save them was totally in your hands ? For Ryan ( Chris Evans ) , the choice begins with a frantic call from Jessica Martin ( Kim Basinger ) . Having been kidnapped at gunpoint and locked in an undisclosed attic , Jessica pleads with Ryan to get help before her abductors return to kill her . With no way of knowing where she is , and with the battery in his cell dying quickly , Ryan is plunged into a relentless , high-stakes thrill ride through a world of lies and murder in this riveting , adrenaline-pumping suspense thriller , " according to the film's official synopsis . So many movies attempt to do what " Cellular " does , and so many fail . This film has everything you need in an " adrenaline-pumping suspense thriller . " Director David R . Ellis , editor Eric Sears , and their production crew know exactly what they're producing . It's a roller-coaster ride of excitement . The film's pace is ideal ; and , the story always manages to stay a step ahead of you ( which is absolutely essential in a film of this type ) . The " revelation " about what is happening to the Martin family stays just out of reach when it needs to , and enhances the action when it's discovered . Writers Larry Cohen and Chris Morgan come up with some great plot-enhancing uses for the cell phone . It's interesting that Mr . Cohen wrote the excellent " Phone Booth " ( 2002 ) , which kept its hero ( Colin Farrell ) inside an antiquated telephone booth , while " Cellular " has its hero ( Chris Evans ) racing all around Los Angeles , on a modern cell phone . Obviously , Cohen knows his phones . Handsome young Evans and beautifully aging Kim Basinger are sexy and captivating ; and , William H . Macy ( as Bob Mooney ) leads a super-supporting cast . Listen for Evans ' ending line to Ms . Basinger - it's a perfect coda . Cellular ( / 04 ) David R . Ellis - Chris Evans , Kim Basinger , William H . Macy
Robert Harron Gets the Third Degree	Entertaining early film , directed by D . W . Griffith ; " Representing the manipulation of the third degree - the fallacy of circumstantial evidence " ! Herein , the third degree is issued to young burglar Robert Harron , who protests so loudly " I didn't do it ! " you can almost hear him shout . The set-up is terrific : Weak brother Henry B . Walthall lives with older and stronger Lionel Barrymore . Meanwhile , burglar Harron is goaded by older crook Harry Carey to go out and rob somebody . He will go to rob Barrymore . BUT , before he gets there , a drunken Walthall has had enough of brother Barrymore , and pops him one . When Harron arrives to rob the place , Walthall decides to frame Harron for the murder of his brother . To wit , Walthall leaves Harron locked in the house , and runs for the police . So , Griffith sets out to prove what he calls , " The fallacy of circumstantial evidence . " The film is a lot of fun - - especially in the performances of Harron , Walthall , and Barrymore . The Gish sisters have a cameo . Note how Griffith sets up a parallel between the two sets of men . " The Burglar's Dilemma " ends a little too quickly , and gives away too much , but it's still excellent . The Burglar's Dilemma ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Robert Harron , Henry B Walthall , Lionel Barrymore
Light and Dark Shadows from D . W . Griffith	In the film's prelude , Lucifer is thrown out of Heaven , after rebelling against God's creation of " man in His divine image . " Lucifer is forced to change his name to Satan , and is cursed to forever " tempt the sons of men to sin against the God who made you both ! " Redemption is offered : " Only when all men turn from thee , canst thou resume thy glorious place at God's right hand ? for every soul that resists thee , thou shalt have one hour at the gates of Paradise ! " The prelude is significant ; it sets Satan up as a cursed , sympathetic villain . He is awarded an hour close to Paradise for every soul who resists his compelling ( and compelled , by God ! ) invitation to sin . This sets up one of the film's greatest sequences , the resisting of temptation , by Carol Dempster ( as Mavis Claire ) , upon meeting Adolphe Menjou ( as Prince Lucio de Rimanez ) at a party . But , first , director D . W . Griffith introduces the more luckless and susceptible protagonist , Ricardo Cortez ( as Geoffrey Tempest ) . Mr . Cortez is a poverty-stricken writer , living in the " humble quarter of a great old city " . His boarding house is inhabited by another struggling writer , the self-described not " too beautiful " Ms . Dempster ; she lives across the hall . Cortez is initially interested in Dempster for sex , but she is falling in love . The first part of the film deals with the convergence of their interests . The culmination is very well relayed by Dempster and Cortez - you can witness passion entering Dempster's thoughts as Cortez becomes love-struck . All seems to be going well for the couple . But , on the eve of wedding , Cortez is fired from his job writing book reviews . His boss explains , " We find you condemn books that every one likes , and praise books that no one likes . " Cortez curses God , triggering the thundering , Faustian appearance of Mr . Menjou , as Satan . Cortez receives the spellbinding news that a previously unknown uncle has made him " one of the richest men in the world . " Menjou thwarts Cortez ' efforts to share his luxurious news with Dempster ; instead , providing him with sexy cigarette-sucking vamps , like Lya De Putti ( as Olga Godovsky ) . Meanwhile , Dempster sinks into depression . In her despair , she turns to God ( Lord Christ ) . So , Dempster is able to resist Menjou's invitation to wickedness - the great Griffith sequence alluded to above occurs ; and , it is lighted , directed , and performed extraordinarily well , by Griffith and company . The film's sets , backgrounds , lighting , and photography are exceptional throughout . Admittedly , Griffith spends too much time on making the opening stark , staid , and ordinary . And , the film's pace is slow , with too few edited breaks . Still , " The Sorrows of Satan " is an excellent film . And , it's more faithful to writer Marie Corelli's original works than Carl Theodor Dreyer's more freely adapted " Blade af Satans bog " ( 1921 ) . Interestingly , both Griffith and Dryer bring forth Corelli's popularized view of Satan as a sympathetic entity , cursed by God . More interestingly , Griffith produces a relatively ordinary picture , while Dryer's film patterns itself after Griffith's opulent " Intolerance " ( 1916 ) , which had little to do with Corelli . Finally , unrelated to the film , but nonetheless noteworthy , this was the last product of the Griffith / Dempster partnership . The Sorrows of Satan ( 1926 ) D . W . Griffith - Ricardo Cortez , Carol Dempster , Adolphe Menjou
Dancing Barefoot	Jane Fonda ( she's Corie ) and Robert Redford ( he's Paul ) are a deliriously happy newlywed couple who begin their wedded days in a modest five-flight high New York City walk-up apartment . Her mother , Mildred Natwick , is their most frequent visitor ; she becomes involved with neighbor in the attic Charles Boyer . This film is a BIG improvement over Ms . Fonda's previous New York City situation comedies " Sunday in New York " ( 1963 ) and " Any Wednesday " ( 1966 ) . The " situation " isn't sexual ( it's mainly the apartment ) , and the material is much better . Fonda and Mr . Redford are fine , and supporters Ms . Natwick and Mr . Boyer are a delight to watch . You can't help but wonder : how are all these people exhausted by five flights , with the possible exception of Boyer ? I also worried , more than laughed , about Natwick falling . Still , " Barefoot in the Park " is a well-done comedy with a satisfying ending . If you are familiar with the 1966-1971 TV program " Dark Shadows " , watch Redford's performance closely . He reminded me of Joel Crothers ' role of " Joe Haskell " . Both Redford and Crothers played Neil Simon's " Paul " on Broadway , and I would say Mr . Crothers brought some of that character to his role on " Dark Shadows " . Barefoot in the Park ( 1967 ) Gene Saks - Jane Fonda , Robert Redford , Mildred Natwick
Home is Where the Heart Is	Judy Garland ( star ) and Vincente Minnelli ( director ) team-up for a classic MGM musical . Ms . Garland is the focus of the camera's attention as part of a sweet St . Louis family ; with younger sister Margaret O'Brien following close behind . The other players are suitably supporting . The film is beautifully photographed , with extraordinary colorful sets and locations . This " Smith Family of St . Louis " is a studio " creation " , and probably looks like no actual St . Louis town that ever existed - - but , that is irrelevant . The film's musical numbers are very strong , with " Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas " my choice the highlight ( it's nearer the end of the film ) . " The Trolley Song " and title song are not far behind . Garland performs them perfectly . I thought the song " You and I " was very much like the song " True Love " - - it seems like one swiped the other . Ms . O'Brien is both sweet and tearful , holding her own with a stellar cast . She played the role wonderfully , but I was distracted by some of her character's actions . I have been through a lot of Halloweens , but never like the one O'Brien experiences . Perhaps that is how the evening was celebrated ? I found it strange , even with her " bad girl " tendencies . Note also the film as a message curiously similar to " The Wizard of Oz " . Meet Me in St . Louis ( 1944 ) Vincente Minnelli - Judy Garland , Margaret O'Brien , Mary Astor
The Victor	Master painter Benjamin Christensen ( as Claude Zoret ) doesn't like the sketches offered for review by budding artist Walter Slezak ( as Michael ) ; instead , he asks the attractive young man to become his model . Mr . Christensen takes a liking to Mr . Slezak ; and , soon , they are like father and son . Then , an alluring woman arrives to request Christensen paint her portrait . Young Slezak is attracted to his benefactor's feminine model , Nora Gregor ( as Countess Zamikoff ) ; and , the young models begin an affair . Christensen becomes despondent over the loss of his ward's attentions . While carrying on with Ms . Gregor , Slezak takes increasing advantage of Christensen's generosity . Will the old painter cut him off ? The homosexuality currently heralded to be found in Carl Theodor Dreyer ' " Michael " is so subtle it's almost invisible . The Christensen-Slezak couplings must have occurred during their time in Algiers , which is over when the film begins . An even earlier affair , between Christensen and Robert Garrison ( as Charles Switt ) , is a little clearer . It's nice to see cinematographer Karl Freund ( as M . Leblanc ) , the art dealer who informs Christensen that Slezak is endeavoring to sell " The Victor " , a painting which symbolizes their once close relationship . " Michael " requires more concentration than your average silent ; to help , the overall production is excellent . Michael ( 1924 ) Carl Theodor Dreyer - Benjamin Christensen , Walter Slezak , Nora Gregor
Special Delivery	Joseph L . Mankiewicz ' beautifully directed , and wittily written , tale of post-1940s America begins with " A Letter to Three Wives " : " Dearest Debby , Lora Mae , and Rita - As you know , by now , you'll have to carry on without me from here . It isn't easy to leave a town like our town , to tear myself away from you three dear , dear friends who have meant so much to me . And so , I consider myself extremely lucky to be able to take with me a sort of memento , something to remind me always of the town that was my home . And , of my three very dearest friends , whom I want never to forget . And , I won't . You see - girls - I've run off with one of your husbands . - Addie " The three troubled wives are : World War II veteran " W . A . V . E " Jeanne Crain ( as Deborah Bishop ) , beautiful gold-digging Linda Darnell ( as Lora Mae Hollingsway ) , and radio career " gal " Ann Sothern ( as Rita Phipps ) . Fetching narrator Celeste Holm ( as Addie Ross ) professes to have absconded with one of her three " dearest " friends ' husbands : Is it charming schoolteacher Kirk Douglas ( as George Phipps ) , rich and forceful Paul Douglas ( as Porter Hollingsway ) , or young and worldly Jeffrey Lynn ( as Bradford Bishop ) ? Under Mankiewicz ' expert direction , the wedded six perform very well . The couples have , arguably , less " chemistry " than you might expect ; however , this helps suspend disbelief regarding the film's plot . At times , the unrelated Douglas actors ( Paul and Kirk ) seem to be the " voice " of Mankiewicz ; and , their parts are expertly performed . The women are all terrific . The three lead actresses receive fantastic support from Connie Gilchrist ( as Ruby Finney ) , Florence Bates ( as Mrs . Manleigh ) , and Thelma Ritter ( as Sadie Dugan ) . Ms . Ritter , in an early role , was not credited ; but , her role is substantial . And , it was nice to see Mae Marsh in a small role . Unfortunately , the film's eagerly anticipated ending is a little weak . A Letter to Three Wives ( 1949 ) Joseph L . Mankiewicz - Jeanne Crain , Linda Darnell , Ann Sothern
Surf's Up	Robert Harron's performance from " The Sands of Dee " is showcased in Dore Schary's 1945 box office hit " The Spiral Staircase " , starring Dorothy McGuire . In the film's opening , Ms . McGuire is at a nickelodeon , thrilled by Mr . Harron's desperate search for his lost love ; meanwhile , a serial murderer is claiming Myra Dell . It appears as if a superior print of D . W . Griffith's " The Sands of Dee " was used in the Dore Schary-produced film ; so , where is it ? Before the events projected in " The Spiral Staircase " , Harron ( as Bobby ) is rejected by leading lady Mae Marsh ( as Mary ) . Ms . Marsh forsakes Harron's boyish charms for sophisticated painter Edwin August , after Mr . August flatters her , and steals a kiss . Harron wanders sadly along the beach , and slumps over some rocks . Marsh is happy with her new love , but finds the fickle finger of fate pointing her toward tragedy ? Director Griffith and photographer G . W . Bitzer create beautiful seaside location images . Marsh and Harron perform expertly together ; and , audiences longed to see them reunited . Charles Hill Mailes and Grace Henderson are notable , among the always dependable Griffith stable of supporting players . The poetic on-screen story is a believable adaptation of Charles Kingsley's original , simpler poem . The Sands of Dee ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Mae Marsh , Robert Harron , Edwin August
Mrs . Brown You've Got a Lovely Daughter	Mickey Rooney ( as Mi Taylor ) is a young man drifting along the figurative road to ruin , where he meets 12-year-old Elizabeth Taylor ( as Velvet Brown ) - - she adores horses , but he has a sad history with the animals . Ms . Taylor is enamored with Mr . Rooney's horse-sense ; she takes him home , and gets him room and board with her family . They are supported very well by Anne Revere and Donald Crisp ( as Mr . and Mrs . Brown ) . Butch Jenkins and Angela Lansbury are Taylor's strained siblings . The plot of " National Velvet " is implausible to a fault ; for example , the circumstances leading to Taylor's ride in the " Big Race " are quite a stretch ( but were likely more believable on paper ) . Still , the characters ' connection to horses , and to Ms . Revere's character are nicely conceived . Rooney and Taylor are excellent in the starring roles ; there is a balance between Rooney's fading " child star " and Taylor's exuberant new " child star " , which adds depth to their characterizations . The excellent performances of Rooney and Taylor are further enhanced by fine direction , photography , and editing from Clarence Brown , Leonard Smith , and Robert Kern . A sentimental classic . National Velvet ( 1944 ) Clarence Brown - Mickey Rooney , Elizabeth Taylor , Anne Revere
Every War Is Different , Every War Is the Same	Excellently described , on the DVD sleeve : " ' Jarhead ' ( the self-imposed moniker of the Marines ) follows Swoff ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) from a sobering stint in boot camp to active duty , where he sports a sniper rifle through Middle East deserts that provide no cover from the heat or Iraqi soldiers . Swoff and his fellow Marines sustain themselves with sardonic humanity and wicked comedy on blazing desert fields in a country they don't understand against an enemy they can't see for a cause they don't fully grasp . " Sam Mendes ' " Jarhead " very effectively captures the Humor , Fear , and Waiting of War - in this case , George H . Bush's 1991 " Desert Storm " to retrieve Kuwait from Iraq . Certainly , it helped to have adapted the story from participating Marine Anthony Swofford , who was " young and stupid " enough to have " got lost on his way to college , " and volunteered . Of course , neither " Swoff " nor his brothers are really " stupid " . The Marines may not possess knowledge about every subject under the desert sun , but they are human ; and , they are treated with dignity and respect in this film . Mr . Gyllenhaal , Peter Sarsgaard ( as Troy ) , Lucas Black ( as Kruger ) , Brian Geraghty ( as Fergus ) , Jacob Vargas ( as Cortez ) , Laz Alonso ( as Escobar ) , Evan Jones ( as Fowler ) , and Iván Fenyö ( as Pinko ) are a terrific Unit . Jamie Foxx ( as Sykes ) is a perfect Lifer . Keep an eye on Mr . Sarsgaard " Troy " characterization , for a " Best Supporting Actor " caliber performance . Mr . Jones ' " Fowler " is also letter-perfect . And , Roger Deakins ' photography is spectacular . One mistake the film makes is NOT developing some characters fully . Mr . Geraghty's " Fergus " and Mr . Fenyö's " Pinko " absolutely need more minutes on screen , considering their roles ; and , the direction is good enough to warrant a longer running time . A " Director's Cut " , or reading of the book , is necessary . The film doesn't just leave you wanting more , it needs more . Semper Fi , Mr . Swofford ! Jarhead ( 2005 ) Sam Mendes - Jake Gyllenhaal , Peter Sarsgaard , Jamie Fox
Opportunity Knocks for Loretta Young	Loretta Young plays a Swedish " Cinderella " who rises from poor Minnesota farm girl to potential Washington official . This is very much a " Star Vehicle " for Ms . Young , and she is remarkable - lifting the routine rags-to-riches story far above the expected . Some of the supporting players seem a little silly - maybe playing caricatures - but , Ethel Barrymore and Charles Bickford are recommended viewing ; and , Young is admirably assisted by Joseph Cotton as " leading man " . There were some surprises in the predictably - at one time , the film looks like it's going to end poorly , but turns around nicely . The production values are relatively high , so ignore the fake snow scene . Surprisingly , the behind-the-scenes political dealings pulled few punches , with Ms . Barrymore's presence strongly felt . A much better film than expected . The Farmer's Daughter ( 1947 ) H . C . Potter - Loretta Young , Joseph Cotten , Ethel Barrymore
Five Bowery Boys and a Baby	The habitually unemployed " Bowery Boys " are losers at the laundromat ; so , entrepreneurial Leo Gorcey ( as Slip Mahoney ) decides to " take in " laundry , using the spare room at father Bernard ( as " Louie " ) ' s Sweet Shop " . As usual , Mr . Gorcey is amusingly assisted by Huntz Hall ( as Sach De Bussy Jones ) , who fantasizes about " Cynthia " , his department store wax dummy girlfriend . William " Billy " Benedict ( as Whitey ) , Benny " Bennie " Bartlett ( as Butch ) , and David Gorcey ( as Chuck ) are also on hand . During the expected washing machine mishaps , a mysterious woman ( Anabel Shaw ) leaves a baby at " Mahoney Enterprises " . . . " Hold That Baby ! " finds the comedy team of Gorcey & Hall in fine form . Hall's scenes with " Cynthia " are a highlight , along with the entire " Midvale Sanitarium " sequence - watch as quick-thinking Gorcey passes Hall off as a nut-house hopeful , and poses as a bumbling doctor . The Charles R . Marion & George Schnitzer screenplay is excellent ; and , each Jan Grippo performer is perfectly cast , with the entire production running very smoothly . It's ably directed by Reginald Le Borg , and features particularly outstanding appearances by Ida Moore and Florence Auer ( as Faith and Hope Andrews ) , a delightfully greedy old duo . Hold That Baby ! ( / 49 ) Reginald Le Borg - Leo Gorcey , Huntz Hall , Ida Moore
Alfred Hitchcock Tears it Up	Paul Newman ( as Michael Armstrong ) and Julie Andrews ( as Sarah Sherman ) are celebrating an early honeymoon , under their bed covers ; it's a good way to stay warm while the Cold War rages , and heating systems fail . Ms . Andrews doesn't know it , but Mr . Newman is preparing to defect to the Soviet Bloc . Further explanation would spoil the plot , which takes both expected and unexpected turns . Alfred Hitchcock's " Tom Curtain " is masterfully directed ; and , the otherwise more sunnily disposed Newman and Andrews are surprisingly effective . Their lesser known supporting players are appropriately chilling - - especially the electrifying Wolfgang Kieling ( as Hermann Gromek ) ; his ghastly expiration scene is a classic . Mr . Hitchcock received a relative bad rap for his " Torn Curtain " ; as , understandably , reviewers held his films to increasingly difficult to attain expectations . Still , Hitchcock and crew create an extraordinary frosty , paranoiac Cold War spy chiller . The film might have been perfected with some additional characterization given for Newman and Andrews to work with ; either or both of their characters might have had an intriguing past relationship with , perhaps , the " Ballerina " ( Tamara Toumanova ) or the " Countess " ( Lila Kedrova ) . As it stands , Mr . Kieling and others have more interesting backgrounds than either of the leads .
Stylish Spoofery of the Old Haunted House	Laura La Plante ( as Annabelle West ) and an assortment of greedy relatives gather at a Gothic Old Mansion to hear the reading of The Will . Relatively soon , we learn The Fortune will be inherited by young Ms . La Plante ; however , she must be declared Sane by a doctor - naturally , this is an incentive for someone to drive the dear girl Insane ! This is a stylishly shot silent " comedy / thriller " spoof of " haunted house " stories - like " The Bat " ( a 1920 play , and 1926 movie ) . La Plante and Creighton Hale ( as Paul Jones ) are okay as the nominal " leads " , but the veteran cast must have been much more amusing to the typical 1920s viewer . Tully Marshall ( as Mr . Crosby ) and Lucien Littlefield ( as the Doctor ) were two of the best supporting actors around , and Flora Finch ( as Aunt Susan ) must have been considered a film legend in 1927 - they are all a hoot , but Martha Mattox really steals the " The Cat and the Canary " with her terrific turn as haunted house hostess " Mammy Pleasant " ! Interestingly , this was an adaptation of a ( 1922 ) stage play - obviously " silent " films made much better movies out of plays than did later " sound " adaptations . Some may argue " sound " productions never figured out how to turn a good stage play into a good movie . Director Paul Leni and Gilbert Warrenton were among those making art ( more or less ) out of silent film . By the way , there is a scene with the possible " killer " walking in from the right of the screen ; but , this is not a " who-done-it " movie as much as it is a spoof of said ? The Cat and the Canary ( 1927 ) Paul Leni - Laura La Plante , Creighton Hale , Martha Mattox
New York , New York ! ( It's a Wonderful Town )	Three sailors spend their 24-hour shore leave looking for women in New York City . Gene Kelly ( he's Gabey ) finds Vera-Ellen ( she's Ivy ) , Betty Garrett ( she's Brunhilde ) finds Frank Sinatra ( he's Chip ) , and Jules Mushin ( he's Ozzie ) finds Ann Miller ( she's Claire ) . The movie opens with the extraordinary production number " New York ! New York ! " , with the Kelly , Sinatra , and Mushin trio dancing and singing all over New York City . It's one of the best musical introductions ever , and the New York City location footage is exquisite . You should know that , while the film is classy and energetic throughout , it never again even approaches the high standard exhibited in the opening . The exuberance is enough to sustain the film for some time - how long will depend on individual tastes . On the Town ( 1949 ) Gene Kelly , Stanley Donen - Gene Kelly , Frank Sinatra , Ann Miller
All Quiet on the Westfront 1918	It is incredible that the U . S . and Germany , in between two Great World Wars , would simultaneously produce two very similarly-themed films - this one , and " All Quiet on the Western Front " ( 1930 ) . The sounds of war are eerily alike - relentless , disturbing , horrifying ? " Westfront 1918 " is less drama , and more documentary-style than its cousin . The war scenes are remarkable ; but so is an interlude when Gustav Diessl ( as Karl ) goes on leave , expertly directed by G . W . Pabst . This part is slightly better than the Lew Ayres ( as Paul ) leave in " All Quiet on the Western Front " ; and , it is more realistic . However , " Westfront 1918 " is less memorable in its final " emotion grabbing " scene ( and , overall ) . Still , it's an excellent film . Westfront 1918 ( 1930 ) G . W . Pabst - Gustav Diessl , Fritz Kampers , Hans-Joachim Moebis
She's Not There	While Keir Dullea ( as Stephen Lake ) gets her things in order , sister Carol Lynley ( as Ann Lake ) arranges for a local school cook to look after her daughter " Bunny Lake " , telling the woman she has left the unseen four-year-old in the " First Day room " . Ms . Lynley has arrived from America , to join her London-based journalist brother , Mr . Dullea . After some shopping , Lynley goes to pick up her daughter from school , but ? " Bunny Lake Is Missing " . Soon , sleuthing Laurence Olivier ( as Inspector Newhouse ) arrives to investigate the disappearing child ; but , unexpectedly , he has trouble finding evidence " Bunny Lake " has ever existed . Director Otto Preminger artfully holds interest , as his psychological thriller gets creepy on you . Lynley and Dullea are quite effective , and intriguing , as the oddly coupled siblings . Olivier is as arresting as ever . Hindsight will prove the story cheats ; however , it doesn't deter from the viewing pleasure . The supporting cast is fantastic . Noel Coward ( as Horatio Wilson ) is the reddest herring around , but highly amusing . Martita Hunt ( as Aida Ford ) is delightful as the frightfully intuitive woman upstairs . The sets and photography ( Denys N . Coop ) are terrific . And , you can't beat The Zombies , performing " Remember You " , " Just Out of Reach " , and " Nothing's Changed " . Cheers ! Bunny Lake Is Missing ( / 65 ) Otto Preminger - Carol Lynley , Keir Dullea , Laurence Olivier
Richard Basehart Goes Out on a Ledge	After passing on a hotel waiter's delivery of breakfast , troubled young Richard Basehart ( as Robert Cosick ) steps out on the ledge of a New York City hotel , and threatens to jump . Fifteen floors down , he is spotted by beat street policeman Paul Douglas ( as Charlie Dunnigan ) . As a multitude of onlookers , punsters , policeman , and media crowd around , officer Douglas tries to talk " loopy " Mr . Basehart off the ledge . Basehart's psyche is made more insightful through conversations with Douglas , and a parade of interested parties ; including self-centered mother Agnes Moorehead ( as Christine Hill Cosick ) , henpecked father Robert Keith ( as Paul E . Cosick ) , and wholesome ex-girlfriend Barbara Bel Geddes ( as Virginia Foster ) . Director Henry Hathaway's " Fourteen Hours " milks billowing curtains and skyline angles for all they are worth , registering a great amount of anxiety for his " Man on the Ledge " . Fidgeting and ghostly , Basehart is terrific as the psychotic suicide hopeful who states , " Life stinks . " Douglas is a perfect good-natured contrast , who tries to explain life's worth in family homilies ( which are impossible for Basehart to understand ) . Both actors had underrated careers . Happily , Basehart won the National Board of Review's 1951 " Best Actor " award for his ledge work . Interestingly , Jan Sterling won the Board's 1951 " Best Actress " award for " Ace in the Hole " , which also dramatized a " breathtaking spectacle " . In subplots , love blossoms for handsome Jeffrey Hunter & pretty Debra Paget ( as Danny & Ruth ) , while Grace Kelly & James Warren ( as Mr . & Mrs . Fuller ) struggle with impending divorce . These stories don't add or subtract much from the main event - Will Basehart jump , or won't he ? - It might have been interesting and artful for writer John Paxton to parallel Ms . Kelly's marriage woes with Ms . Moorehead's early life and marriage ; the sense of generational doom would be left open-ended , with the future resting with Hunter and Paget . By the way , the cast of thousands includes dozens of " bit " players worth connecting with ( I started with switchboard-ready Sandra Gould of " Bewitched " , and found something right from George Putnam ) . Fourteen Hours ( / 51 ) Henry Hathaway - Richard Basehart , Paul Douglas , Barbara Bel Geddes
The Boy Who Went to War	At the end of the U . S . Civil War , the well-named " Monsieur France " ( Adolph Lestina ) moved to his father's home in France , rather than submit to the Yankees . Boasting he is " the only citizen of the Confederate States of America , " he sits by his old Confederate flag , dreaming of a time gone with the wind . Mr . Lestina lives with his exuberant granddaughter Carol Dempster ( as Atoline France ) . Ms . Dempster catches the eye of Richard Barthelmess ( as Ralph Grey ) , the older brother of a school chum ; but , Mr . Barthelmess is too late in his courting - - and , so , Dempster gets herself betrothed to Syn De Conde ( as the Count de Brissac ) . Then , Dempster goes to visit the " Grey " family in New York . In New York , Dempster meets Barthelmess ' younger brother , Robert Harron ( as James Grey ) . Mr . Harron is more interested in continuing a partying lifestyle than settling down ; he gives Dempster the once over , but finds singer-dancer Clarine Seymour ( as Cutie Beautiful ) more fetching . Ms . Seymour shares Harron's interest in youthful Ragtime fun . Although their father is against the Great War ( aka World War I ) , Barthelmess and Harron eventually join in the fighting . Will the two brothers get out of the war alive , and return to the women they left behind ? Harron effortlessly steals the film , with his portrayal of the slouching , partying brother who becomes a war hero ; Seymour is also delightful as his 31st conquest , and true love . That Harron's performance so outdistances the other players may be why director D . W . Griffith , as the film progresses , devotes more screen time Harron's character . In hindsight , a re-titled , re-edited " The Girl Who Stayed at Home " would have been improved by scenes from Harron's college days , and his contrasting relationship with brother Barthelmess . Old Confederate rebel Lestina's final acceptance of the United States of America is a nice touch . The Girl Who Stayed at Home ( / 19 ) D . W . Griffith - Carol Dempster , Richard Barthelmess , Robert Harron
Rich Man , Poor Man , Beggar Man , Thief	Early film , beautifully directed by D . W . Griffith . Two young couples are happily married , on the same day : one is rich , Blanche Sweet and Edwin August ; the other is poor , Dorothy Bernard and Charles West . As their wedded lives unfold , we see the desperation of the poor couple contrasted with the opulent lifestyle of the rich couple . The poor husband cannot find work , and is tempted to rob a house . The rich husband is tempted to take a bribe . Each succumbs to temptation . When the poor man attempts to rob the rich man , their lives again collide ? Griffith expertly cross-cuts between the parallel lives - the rich and the poor couples , bringing them together , and tearing them apart . G . W . Bitzer's photography is stunning , highlighted by a cooperative wind . The scenes with the poor husband looking for work are very well done . Griffith and the four principals ( Sweet , West , August , and Bernard ) very effectively use body and expression to convey their means . Griffith expertly uses the camera and the characters to relay his message about " white collar crime " in " One Is Business , the Other Crime " . Sweet . One Is Business , the Other Crime ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Blanche Sweet , Charles West , Edwin August
Sweating it Out with Broderick Crawford	Watch Crawford sweat this one out ! Great fun with Broderick Crawford as managing editor of a " Scandal Sheet " newspaper , with John Derek and Donna Reed on staff as reporters . The film uses the technique of showing the murderer's identity as the crime is committed ( it's editor Crawford ) ; then we watch him squirm as the reporter hero ( Derek ) and heroine ( Reed ) try to identify the killer and cover the story . Mr . Crawford must give the " Lonely Heart Killer " big coverage in his tabloid newspaper , or risk suspicion . When a possible witness turns up , things get complicated . Henry O'Neill is great as a washed-up old drunk who used to work for Crawford's newspaper . The film has a great style ? beautiful black and white photography directed by Phil Karlson . Recommended viewing ! Scandal Sheet ( 1952 ) Phil Karlson - Broderick Crawford , John Derek , Donna Reed
John Garfield Gets in the Ring for Billy Halop and " The Dead End Kids "	After winning a championship fight , boxer John Garfield ( as Johnnie Bradfield ) celebrates with a drinking binge , which leads to the manslaughter of a pushy reporter . Although his manager killed the man , Mr . Garfield is blamed . When the manager dies in a car crash , wearing Garfield's stolen watch , authorities think the boxer is dead . Still a WANTED man , Garfield changes his identity to " Jack Dorney " and moves to an Arizona ranch . There , Garfield meets " The Dead End Kids " : Billy Halop ( as Tommy ) , Bobby Jordan ( as Angel ) , Leo Gorcey ( as Spit ) , Huntz Hall ( as Dippy ) , Gabriel Dell ( as T . B . ) , and Bernard Punsly ( as Milt ) . Garfield bonds with the young " Dead End " lads , who were sent to stay with sweet " Grandma Rafferty " ( May Robson ) as an alternative to reform school , courtesy of her brother , deceased priest " Father Rafferty " . Garfield falls in love with Halop's sister , pretty " Peggy " ( Gloria Dickson ) , who is there to keep any eye on the kids . Of course , Garfield's past comes back to haunt him ? " John Garfield and The ' Dead End ' Kids " make beautiful ( Max Steiner ) music together , thanks to effective direction and photography , by Busby Berkeley and James Wong Howe . The story is predictably comfortable , with the Warner Brothers support team in fine form . Garfield and the " Dead End " kids are a winning combination ; although Garfield made no further movies with the " East Side " gang , the studio had him re-team with both Billy Halop and Bobby Jordan , almost immediately , for " Dust Be My Destiny " . The boxing scenes are nicely staged . But , the most exciting sequence has Garfield and four of the New York " Kids " ( Halop , Jordan , Hall , and Punsly ) climbing into a giant water tank for a swim - which unexpectedly puts their lives in danger . Other , more brief , highlights include floozy Ann Sheridan ( as Goldie ) , boozy Barbara Pepper ( as Budgie ) , and young Ronald Sinclair ( as Douglas ) losing at strip poker . They Made Me a Criminal ( / 39 ) Busby Berkeley - John Garfield , Billy Halop , Bobby Jordan
In the Ring with Kirk Douglas	Kirk Douglas delivers an astonishing performance as rags-to-riches boxer . " Champion " is a dark film , told in flashback . The main feature is Mr . Douglas ' performance , but it also works as a " boxing film " - however , don't expect Douglas's character or the film to be typical 1940s Hollywood film . This is a film which raises questions about this " sport " and others . It's well written ( for the time ) and directed Mark Robson . There are some other good performances ; in particular , Arthur Kennedy as Douglas ' brother ; when the story first flashbacked , the two actors were very believable as brothers . This kind of drama might seem a little tired , at times , because it's been done so many times since , and the scenario is ( or , has become ) so predictable . Oh , and you have to just go along with Douglas and Kennedy being named " Midge " and " Connie " . Champion ( 1949 ) Mark Robson - Kirk Douglas , Arthur Kennedy , Ruth Roman
An Imaginative Portrait	Joan Bennett reigns supreme as " The Woman in the Window " , and Edward G . Robinson is superb as the man whom she invites over to see her sketches . Under Fritz Lang's direction , they are a magical team . I was as captivated by their performances as they were captivated by each other . The story , however , is somewhat of a letdown . I don't think the flaws are enough to mar thoroughly enjoying the film ; it's sad , though , to watch an potentially extraordinary film falter . Mr . Robinson and Ms . Bennett are greatly supported by Raymond Massey and Dan Duryea . Mr . Duryea's supporting performance is particularity effective . Mr . Massey is close behind ( but certainly no " Colombo " ) . You should see " The Woman in the Window " . . . The Woman in the Window ( 1944 ) Fritz Lang - Edward G . Robinson , Joan Bennett , Dan Duryea
Get Off the Ground !	The tiny city of " Perfection , Nevada " suddenly finds its population of 14 dwindling , as under-employed handymen Kevin Bacon ( as Valentine " Val " McKee ) and Fred Ward ( as Earl Bassett ) decide to hit the road . Before heading to nearby " Bixby " , they meet perky student seismologist Finn Carter ( as Rhonda LeBeck ) . Ms . Carter is studying an odd abundance of seismic " Tremors " in the vicinity . Driving on , Mr . Bacon and Mr . Ward discover giant mole-like slug creatures are eating all animals ( including people , of course ) in the area . They high-tail it back to town and , with the remaining citizens , try to avoid becoming food for slugs . Director Ron Underwood , with writers S . S . Wilson and Brent Maddock , creates a great balance of humor , suspense , and horror show " homage " . The flesh-eating " graboids " are a great " monster " - but , the real success in " Tremors " is the dignified performances of the cast , led by Bacon's keenly characterized " Valentine " . Bacon , Ward , and the others play the cartoonish characters with wit rather than foolishness . As usual , the excitement is enhanced when the characters are appealing . Michael Gross and Reba McEntire ( as Burt and Heather Gummer ) are an absolute hoot . Tremors ( 1990 ) Ron Underwood - Kevin Bacon , Fred Ward , Finn Carter
Thomas Meighan's an Admirable Crichton	Thomas Meighan ( as the admirable Crichton ) is head butler for an aristocratic British family ; he is obviously quite taken with luscious Gloria Swanson ( as Lady Mary Lasenby ) , but unable to cross class barriers . The household's scullery maid Lila Lee ( as Tweeny ) is in love with Crichton . The threesome , and some others , go out yachting ; when cross currents hit , the ensemble is shipwrecked ! Turns out , the servant class has far more advanced survival skills . Who knew ? Ms . Swanson is the film's main attraction ; her bathing and showering scenes , near the beginning of the film , helped clean-up at the box office . Note that whenever there is nakedness afoot , DeMille has an object cover-up Swanson's figure , however . Though not as famed , Swanson's later wet spot , when she is nearly drowned in the bowel of the sideswiped yacht , is far superior . Swanson and Ms . Lee perform well , actually , with the material given . Loved the " upper crust " lady complaining about limp toast ! Mr . Meighan delivers the movie's finest performance ; the other players have moments , but Meighan is outstanding in the pivotal role of Butler Crichton . From the moment he checks the mansion for dust , he is delightful ; the actor makes the movie even more interesting when the suppressed desire for Swanson begins registering on his face . A couple of smaller roles are noteworthy : Wesley Barry is great as the peeping Buttons , indicating what Cecil B . DeMille's " Male and Female " is really all about ( more or less ) . You should also keep an eye on Bebe Daniels during the " King of Babylon " imaginary sequence ; she is terrific as Meighan's right-hand lady . Silent film veterans Guy Oliver and Clarence Burton inexplicably disappear , after the shipwreck . Theodore Roberts and Raymond Hatton are around much longer , thankfully . The film is recommended , and DeMille obviously expert - but it's one of the more ludicrously-themed silent era classics preserved for modern scrutiny . Apparently , in adapting " The Admirable Crichton " for DeMilledom , the director substituted sex for satire . AND , he gets his titillating re-title " Male and Female " from no less than God Himself ! quoting , " So God created Man in His own image , in the image of God created He him : Male and Female created He them . " There is also a oddly placed bow to the good ol ' U . S . A . With all its oddities , it's still a fun film . Male and Female ( / 19 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Thomas Meighan , Gloria Swanson , Lila Lee
Norma Talmadge Makes an Impression	That this film was reportedly shown at Venice ( presumably , in conjunction with the summer's Film Festival ) in 1958 makes the possibility of someday seeing " Panthea " tantalizing . Norma Talmadge died in December , 1957 , which would seem to confirm that the film was screened , possibly as a tribute to Ms . Talmadge . So , what happened to this print of " Panthea " ? After impressive performances in " A Daughter's Strange Inheritance " ( 1915 ) and " The Battle Cry of Peace " ( 1915 ) , Talmadge began her reign as one of the most acclaimed actresses of the entire silent era . She won a 1915 " Motion Picture Magazine " award as best " Character Woman " for the year ( the unusual distinction being the way they differentiated an " Actress " from a " Star " back then ) . Talmadge was a popular " Triangle " player in 1916 . But , the 1917 release of " Panthea " established her as a superstar ( with help from producer-lover Joseph M . Schenck , director Alan Dwan , and photographer Harold Rosson ) . Contemporary critics lavished praise on " Panthea " . Julian Johnson called it " one of the best photoplays in screen history , " despite an " ineffective " ending , in " Photoplay " magazine ( April 1917 ) , explaining , " Norma Talmadge plays Panthea with a verve , abandon and surety which denominates her queen of our younger silver-sheet emotionalists . There is no woman on the depthless stage who can flash from woe to laughter and back again ( like ) Talmadge . She is 100 % surefire . Rogers Lytton , as the Baron , surpasses all his other efforts . Earle Foxe plays Gerald in psychopathic correctness . " Fortunately , the number of lost Talmadge film reels is not as extensive as was once believed . An impressive number are known to exist ( search Greta de Groat's website for an excellent listing ) ; but , they are in need of restoration . The reason so few of Talmadge's films are available , presently , appears to be due to lack of interest ( and funds ) . Hopefully , someone will locate films like " Panthea " ( 1917 ) , and restore Talmadge's acclaimed " Smilin ' Through " ( 1922 ) . Panthea ( / 17 ) Alan Dwan - Norma Talmadge , Earle Foxe , L . Rogers Lytton
When Sandy Met Flipper	Chuck Connors ( as Porter Ricks ) lives on the Florida coast , with his 12-year-old son Luke Halpin ( as Sandy ) , and wife Kathleen Maguire ( as Martha ) . Following a hurricane , son Halpin goes to bail out a dingy ; and , he is startled when a dolphin jumps out - - it's Flipper ! As it introduces an enduring franchise , the first " Flipper " effortlessly overcomes its flaws - - mainly , parts that go on too long , and look more repetitive and ordinary in hindsight . The catchy theme song , for example , will soon be improved upon , and given its logical place over the credits . The film opens with an exciting hurricane , and features beautiful location and underwater photography throughout . If you know Flipper , the film offers many origin story " firsts " , topped by the meeting of Sandy and Flipper . Pete the Pelican is around , along with many familiar elements . The Ricks family line-up is different , however - - mother Maguire is present , but no Bud . The " Flipper " character is played by " Mitzie " , and others , undoubtedly . The " A Boy and His Dolphin " concept is terrific , and the Flipper character retains its integrity through ensuing years . Halpin is very cute , and seems to improve his performance over the run of the film ; his cavorting scenes are charming . Mr . Connors and Ms . Maguire are great parents - - they make up MUCH more natural family than expected . Joe Higgins ( who also appears in the next " Flipper " ) and Jane Rose ( who also appears in the first " Dark Shadows " ) are among the supporting players . Note that Connors ' friend , who dies during the hurricane , is mentioned as " not of our faith " ; this add depths to the film . Flipper ( 1963 ) James B . Clark - Chuck Connors , Luke Halpin , Kathleen Maguire
Weird Scenes Inside a Boy's Mind	" Talk About a Stranger " is a much , much better film that you might expect . Despite the credits order , it stars Billy Gray ( as Robert " Bud " Fontaine Jr . ) . Mr . Gray would , later , become best known as another " Bud " , on the TV series " Father Knows Best " . In this film , he plays a boy who adopts a stray dog , which he names " Boy " ; then , he finds the dog has been poisoned . Gray suspects a mysterious new arrival in town , Kurt Kasznar ( as Matlock ) . Mr . Kasznar acts , and looks , very much like an outsider ; and , he seems to dislike " Boy " , and children ? Gray does a fine job in a difficult role ; he has to play the boy as both unlikeable , and likable . The character " Bud " is redeemed ( or , made sympathetic ) by his caring for his dead " Dog " ; and , the film effectively captivates , with its plot developments . Kasznar is great , as usual ; he keeps the performance from going in a direction not in tune with the film's ending . Top billed George Murphy and Nancy Davis ( as parents Robert and Marge Fontaine ) are ordinary ; undoubtedly , they are better appreciated in other films . Later , Ms . Davis was , of course , wonderfully cast as the second Mrs . Ronald Reagan . The film's weaknesses might have been arrested by strengthening the " Fontaine " family . The other players in " Talk About a Stranger " are terrific . Lewis Stone is at least as " fatherly " as Mr . Murphy ; he plays the newspaperman ( William J . Wardlaw ) Gray runs to for help . Teddy Infuhr has a great little part as a boy who lives near a " Haunted House " Gray visits ; watch for their scene in the " San Sala " house . The film is full of weird scenes ; and , Gray's trip to " San Sala " is one . Note , also , that Gray is picked up hitchhiking by motorcycling sailor Alvy Moore , who immediately asks Gray if he has a sister ! Mr . Moore will , later , become best known as " Hank Kimball " on the TV series " Green Acres " . You also get to see Kathleen Freeman , Burt Mustin , and some others ? Cinematographer John Alton is the film's most valuable player . Mr . Alton , David Bradley ( director ) , Cedric Gibbons ( art director ) , and Eddie Imazu ( art director ) make " Talk About a Stranger " a great looking film . For this , and its cast , " Talk About a Stranger " is well worth watching . Talk About a Stranger ( 1952 ) David Bradley - Billy Gray , Kurt Kasznar , Lewis Stone
Death Becomes Him	In middle of the 14th century , knightly Max von Sydow ( as Antonius Block ) and squire Gunnar Björnstrand ( as Jöns ) , " after long years as Crusaders in the Holy Land , have at last returned to their native Sweden , a land ravaged by the Black Plague . " Mr . von Sydow is immediately confronted by creepy , black-cloaked Bengt Ekerot ( as the Personification of Death ) , who has appeared to claim von Sydow's soul . Instead of going quietly into the final night , von Sydow challenges Mr . Ekerot to a game of chess . " Death " is in a playful mood , and accepts the contest ; if von Sydow wins , he and his friends may avoid the Plague . Director Ingmar Bergman had an amazing 1957 ( in Sweden , anyway ) , book-ended with " Det sjunde inseglet " ( " The Seventh Seal " ) and " Smultronstället " ( " Wild Strawberries " ) . The latter film definitely has the edge , story-wise . Still , the former is full of beautifully morbid images , killer camera-work from Bergman and Gunnar Fischer , accompanying a thought-provoking script . Von Sydow and the cast , including Bibi Andersson ( as Mia ) and Nils Poppe ( as Jof ) are great . Ms . Andersson's preparation of some " wild strawberries " seems to portend the next film . Death is not too subtle . Your move . Det sjunde inseglet ( 1957 ) Ingmar Bergman - Max von Sydow , Bengt Ekerot , Bibi Andersson
Pants on Fire	In the early 1960s , Cleveland , Ohio immigrant teenager Brad Renfro ( as Karchy Jonas ) struggles with adolescence and assimilation . Mr . Renfro is working on eradicating the remnants of his Hungarian accent ( his " th " sound ) . Meanwhile , slick disc jockey Kevin Bacon ( as Billy Magic ) arrives in town ( one step ahead of the law ) , to spin " sweaty collar and dirty fingernail music " on the local rock ' n ' roll radio station . Mr . Bacon is a payola player , who needs an underage kid to handle money illegal exchanges . When Renfro cheats on a radio contest , Bacon offers him big bucks to serve as " unwitting accomplice " ? Bacon swaggers through his role with perfection . And , Renfro is incredible , in a very difficult role ; capturing the vulnerability of youth , as he struggles to both adopt and resist Bacon's seductive persona . Calista Flockhart ( as Diney Majeski ) is very effective , as Renfro's " older woman " love interest . Their performances should have received some award consideration . Maximilian Schell ( as Istvan Jonas ) would have been more believable as Renfro's grandfather , to support the obviously wider than envisioned cultural gap between the characters . A few of the scenes are silly , but many more work , due to director Guy Ferland and his convincing cast . " I make things up sometimes , " Renfro reveals . Don't we all . " Telling Lies in America " certainly breaks no new ground - but , it revisits cinematic themes in great style . The film builds to a fine conclusion , and the music is terrific . Telling Lies in America ( 1997 ) Guy Ferland - Brad Renfro , Kevin Bacon , Calista Flockhart
The Man Who Knew Too Little	Alfred Hitchcock directs Robert Donat ( as Richard Hannay ) to a London music hall , where he joins the crowd enjoying the " Mr . Memory " show . A commotion erupts , and Mr . Donat finds himself in the company of a mysterious , beautiful woman . The woman ( Lucie Mannheim ) asks to be taken to Donat's flat , asking , " May I come home with you ? " Then , she is stabbed by spy types . Of course , Donat is suspected . While on the lamb , he meets cool blonde Madeleine Carroll ( as Pamela ) . . . " The 39 Steps " is an fine representation of 1930s Hitchcock ; although , the director more finely tuned some of the craft evident as his career developed . Some Hitchcock touches I found amusing were : the train men reviewing progress in the development of women's undergarments , and handcuffed Donat and Madeleine Carroll enjoying a sandwich while she removes her stockings . Hitchcock elicits nice performances ; with John Laurie ( as John ) and Peggy Ashcroft ( as Margaret ) standing out , in particularly effective characterizations . Early on , the film is reminiscent enough of Greta Garbo's " The Mysterious Lady " ( 1928 ) to invite some comparison . The 39 Steps ( 1935 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Robert Donat , Madeleine Carroll , Peggy Ashcroft
Wallace Reid Speeds into the Box Office Lead	Car salesman Wallace Reid ( as Walter Thomas " Toodles " Walden ) wants to win the triple crown in a big auto race . His boss , Theodore Roberts ( as J . D . " The Bear " Ward ) , has won two of the three races , and thinks Mr . Reid may muss up the company's winning streak . Roberts decides to test Reid's mettle ; but , the plan backfires , and his crack-car salesman quits . Meanwhile , Reid courts Roberts ' daughter , Ann Little ( as Dorothy " The Cub " Ward ) . She is the only thing Reid wants more than winning the big race ; however , Roberts wants her to wait five years before wedding . Can Reid win both the big race and the girl ? Scenery and cigar chewing Roberts threatens to steal the film from its star ; but the likable Reid overtakes Roberts after a contest to see who can pound his desk hardest . In jail for speeding , Reid memorably asks a rat , " How fast were you going ? " Car and train racing along the Los Angeles and San Francisco locale provided an exciting ending ; at one point , the car and train might collide ! " The Roaring Road " brought in box office returns at great speed ; and , Reid quickly became the # 1 United States Box Office star ; understandably , several follow-up films raced into theaters , including outright sequel " Excuse My Dust ! " ( 1920 ) .
When Love Comes Stealing	London " Piccadilly Club " proprietor Jameson Thomas ( as Valentine Wilmot ) is having an affair with the female half of his star dancing duo " Mabel and Vic " , shimmying Gilda Gray ( as Mabel " Mab " Greenfield ) . When Ms . Gray's dancing partner gets too amorous with his lady love , Mr . Thomas fires the man . Alas , the departing Cyril Ritchard ( as Victor " Vic " Smiles ) was the nightclub duo's main attraction , and business tanks . But , Thomas has discovered a new dancer in his kitchen , sexy scullery maid Anna May Wong ( as Shosho ) . Ms . Wong becomes an immediate sensation . Older Gray feels put out , especially when Thomas slips easily into the younger Wong's arms . Eventually , passion leads to murder . Director E . A . Dupont and photographer Werner Brandes are superb , in their final collaboration ; they give " Piccadilly " a great , artful style . Wong's performance , the last of her " silent " career , is almost revelatory ; and , it's at least " Supporting Actress " award-worthy . Higher-billed Gray handles her less flattering role well , too . And , Thomas meets Wong's subtlety in wonderful ways ; catch him admiring Wong's torn stockings . Small bits of business , like Mr . Ritchard slitting a deeper crease into his hat , suggest additional eroticism . Charles Laughton has a delicious cameo as a " Piccadilly Club " patron more interested in his food than the dancers . The film is not without its sour notes , however ; for example , some characterizations / relationships are poorly defined ; and , the ending could have been better . However , any attempt to improve " Piccadilly " might have encouraged the producers to fix things that weren't broken . Even the fly crawling up Wong's left arm as she reclines , during a seduction scene , seems magically planned .
Bottoms Up ! ( ? or Meat Is Murder ? )	In Reno , Nevada , voluptuous Marilyn Monroe ( as Roslyn Taber ) obtains a divorce ; then , she attracts the attention of three boozing cowboys : Clark Gable ( as Gay Langland ) , Montgomery Clift ( as Perce Howland ) , and Eli Wallach ( as Guido ) . Mr . Gable emerges as Ms . Monroe's ( and the film's ) leading man ; he leads the group on a hunting quest for flesh , explaining , " Nothing can live unless something dies . " Mr . Clift and Mr . Wallach agree with Gable . But , sensitive Monroe believes meat is murder . So , apparently , does Monroe's motherly landlady Thelma Ritter ( as Isabelle Steers ) ; however , she begs off the expedition early on , to join an ex-husband . The cast is extraordinary ; and , adding director John Huston and writer Arthur Miller to the mix guarantees a very interesting motion picture experience . " The Misfits " falls short , but not by much . Despite the fact that Mr . Miller must have written the story with Monroe ( then , his wife ) in mind , the main character is played by Gable - that is , if you consider the fact that his character undergoes the greatest transformation , in reaction to Monroe's character . And , Gable , performs the part very nicely . More importantly , he displays a dramatic , " modern " acting prowess , which might have served him well through the 1960s . Of course , that potential went unrealized when Gable suddenly died . In part , his heart attack was attributed to Gable's work in " The Misfits " . This is one film where the personal lives of the cast , director , and writer adversely affects what you see on the screen . The most " negative " result is Monroe's characterization ; she obviously needed more time with the role . Watch , for example , the scene with Monroe and Ritter , which plays after Gable walks off calling his dog ( " Tom Dooley " ) . As the women turn a corner , Monroe has to steady herself . It's a slight , almost unnoticeable misstep ; and , honestly , one which should have been re-shot . Probably , Monroe was so often indisposed , Mr . Huston had to do the best with what he had . It's a shame , because Monroe's acting is not at all inadequate . A particularly good moment to watch for is her " truck ride " , with Wallach ; in this scene , Monroe is exceptional . Another good scene includes Monroe using her real voice , listen to her say , " I don't care about the lettuce ! " At other times , Monroe appears very disconnected ; often , she seems to be acting alongside , rather than with , her co-stars . Gable , Monroe , Clift , and Ritter are certainly convincing as heavy drinkers . Interestingly , Clift uses his " personal demons " to good acting advantage ; whatever he was going through , privately , fit the character ; and , he manages to essay the film's most consistently convincing performance . If " The Misfits " were more successful , Clift might have been nominated as a " Best Supporting Actor " for his role . Also award-worthy is Alex North's perfect musical score . The ending lines , uttered by Gable and Monroe , are quite touching . . . indeed , the stars are out tonight . The Misfits ( 1961 ) John Huston - Clark Gable , Marilyn Monroe , Montgomery Clift
Earl of the Ring	Purported to be the story of a real Queen ( Elizabeth ) and Earl ( Essex ) , " Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex " is difficult to believe . Something is wrong with either the actors ' or characters ' motivations ; in this , the story of their " Love / Hate " relationship . The background story , involving armies and such , is really just there to add characterization . BUT , that does not mean the film fails ; in fact , it's very entertaining . Take it as an opportunity to enjoy leads Bette Davis and Errol Flynn deliver exciting performances . Interestingly , Ms . Davis portrays an aging , plain woman ; and Mr . Flynn is her young , beautiful lover . Their words make the situation believable , despite the strange plot and lack of passion . The supporting cast is chock FULL of other recognizable and delightful actors - - with Olivia de Havilland adding some lustful looks . Suspend the questions about how the characters ' motivations could possibly happen ; and , how events like Flynn's army becoming powerless in an instant could possible occur - - this is a film for appreciators of director Michael Curtiz ' cast . AND , a reversal of the more typical Older Man / Young Beauty gender roles . The Private Lives of Elizabeth and Essex ( 1939 ) Michael Curtiz - Bette Davis , Errol Flynn , Olivia de Havilland
Have You Ever Seen the Rain ?	Richard Barthelmess ( as Tom Holmes ) is serving in the Great War ( World War I ) , with buddy Gordon Westcott ( as Roger Winston ) . When Mr . Westcott shows cowardice during an important assignment , Mr . Barthelmess heroically completes the mission . However , Barthelmess is wounded ; and , he is taken prisoner by the Germans . Westcott assumes Barthelmess is dead , and takes credit for completing the mission . Meanwhile , Barthelmess is given morphine by German doctors ; after the war , he returns to the United States , but has become a drug addict . Westcott helps Barthelmess out by getting him a job in his father's bank . Naturally , a poor morphine addict is going to have a difficult time working in a bank ? Barthelmess performs exceptionally well ; and , the filmmakers should be commended for dealing with the story of a war veteran's overcoming of addiction . Director William A . Wellman also excels in " Heroes for Sale " . Loretta Young is lovely as Barthelmess ' leading lady ; but , Aline MacMahon is much more interesting as another woman who secretly desires Barthelmess . Ms . MacMahon might have garnered " Supporting Actress " awards for her characterization , if they had been given in 1933 . Watch McMahon watch Barthelmess ; and , don't miss Barthelmess ' contrasting first look at Ms . Young . The film deals with political notions which are a little confusing , especially with the communist and / or capitalist character played by Robert Barrat ( Max ) . " Heroes for Sale " begins as World War I ends , and concludes in the " present " era , as FDR becomes President . Barthelmess ' character is optimistic about America , stating , " In a few years it will go on bigger and stronger than ever . " Heroes for Sale ( 1933 ) William A . Wellman - Richard Barthelmess , Aline MacMahon , Loretta Young
You Do the Math	By the time Russell Crowe ( as John Nash ) married Jennifer Connelly ( as Alicia ) , I had serious concerns about " A Beautiful Mind " . My first question revolved around Mr . Crowe's Princeton roommate , Paul Bettany ( as Charles ) . I could not understand why Mr . Bettany did not pal around with the college bar crowd . Crowe was there , with a group of other students , but no mixing with Bettany . Why ? Obviously , Bettany loved to imbibe ; so , he should have been the life of the party , I thought . With that question nagging me , I continued to have questions . Like was up with the two men at the later party ? I wondered ? Then , the final straw - Crowe uses his secret " code " to open a security gate ; and , the gate swings open without closing behind him . This was not a very secure gate . Anyone wanting to gain admittance would only have to wait for Crowe to open it up , and walk in after him ( if not climb in ahead of him ) . And , why wasn't Bettany at the Crowe's wedding ? Just when I was wondering how to get in touch with director Ron Howard , the truth dawned on me . I was expecting a more traditional film . A couple of surreal moments should have tipped me off ; for example , Crowe's barroom deduction concerning the students ' chances of " picking up " a blonde women . Still , I didn't fully appreciate what was going on . Was the rollicking car chase with Ed Harris ( as Parcher ) supposed to be an illusion ? Then , I wondered about the characters " Charles " and " Marcee " . I understood " Parcher " as a manifestation of " cold war " paranoia . But , I do not understand what , precisely , " Charles " and " Marcee " reveal about the title character , other than a propensity for creating illusions . The three imaginary characters are the most important in Nash's life - maybe if I knew what they were around for , they'd go away . Eventually , the film confirms suspicions . I can almost see clearly now . A Beautiful Mind ( 2001 ) Ron Howard - Russell Crowe , Jennifer Connelly , Paul Bettany
For There is Nothing Either Good or Bad , but Thinking Makes it So	Promising art student Ryan Gosling ( as Henry Letham ) becomes suicidal , after a fatal car accident , on what looks like New York's Brooklyn Bridge . Mr . Gosling's preoccupation with death gets the attention of high-water pants psychiatrist Ewan McGregor ( as Sam Foster ) . Alas , Gosling seems to slip farther and father away from reality , dragging Mr . McGregor's psyche along with him - or , it may be the other way around . Meanwhile , McGregor's beautiful blonde girlfriend Naomi Watts ( as Lila Culpepper ) has had suicidal tendencies of her own ? Guess Who sings " These Eyes - watched you bring my world to an end . This Heart - could not accept , and pretend . " Psyched-out Janeane Garofalo ( Dr . Beth Levy ) , blinded Bob Hoskins ( Dr . Leon Patterson ) , and bleeding Kate Burton ( Mrs . Letham ) lend able , entertaining support . Marc Forster's " Stay " is a superbly well-crafted , award-worthy art film ; so , it's easy to watch over . It was during a second viewing that I amend my initial dissatisfaction with the conclusion . There must be an infinite number of ways to react to the " event " in question ; and , I suppose Gosling's could happen . And , the knowledge about what really happened allows time for more thought regarding the previously ignored , subtle " changes " Gosling's redeemed character brings to those played by McGregor and Ms . Watts . I feel no longer cheated . Stay ( 2005 ) Marc Forster - Ewan McGregor , Ryan Gosling , Naomi Watts
Jack Pickford Takes a Bite Out of the Apple	Jack Pickford ( as Tom Sawyer ) is not the model boy of his village ; in fact , he beats up the model boy ( Carl Goetz ) . Mr . Pickford is impressed with the " juvenile pariah " of the village , Robert Gordon ( as Huckleberry Finn ) - - although Pickford is " under strict orders not to play " with Mr . Gordon , the boys are attracted to each other ; and , Gordon brings Pickford a large watermelon to eat . Sore from tussling with the model boy , and sporting a " sore toe " , Pickford is , nevertheless , ordered to whitewash the Sawyer fence . Along comes Antrim Short ( as Joe Harper ) , eating an apple , and pretending to be a Mississippi river steamboat ; Pickford tricks Short into giving up his apple , and whitewashing the fence . Pickford is munching on a different apple when he notices " new girl in town " Clara Horton ( as Becky Thatcher ) ? Director William Desmond Taylor and writer Julia Crawford Ivers ' adaptation is first rate ; the production team would finish the lads ' adventures with " Huck and Tom " ( 1918 ) and " Huckleberry Finn " ( 1920 ) . This beginning is a surprisingly good , and relatively faithful , version of the Mark Twain classic . The focus is on Pickford's " Tom " , and his friendships with Gordon's " Huck " and Short's " Joe " . The three boys take off together , going down the Mississippi river ; while , back home , the villagers think they are dead . Jack Pickford proves himself to be as good a performer as his more famous sister ( Mary Pickford ) ; he is more than capable in the " Tom Sawyer " role - - skipping , pouting , flirting , jumping fences , and getting sick on fresh catfish ; he brings the character to life . He and the other " children " appear too old for their roles in many instances ; so , for example , Pickford stealing a kiss from Horton loses its innocence , and looks more like an attack . Yet , most of the time , the performers make themselves believable . Though most faithful , this is definitely an interpretation of Twain's characters . There is some symbolism in this film that I don't recall from the novel ( which I will have to re-read ) ; director Taylor uses food ( like the Apple ) from the novel ; but , possibly , in a different way . Pickford and Gordon create a particularly interesting dynamic : drawing lines with their feet , rubbing shoulders , and drawing in their knees . I found the recurring " sore toe " of Tom's fascinating ; and , note that when the boys " escape " , he is relieved from this malady . This is another nuance to track in a re-reading of " Tom Sawyer " .
Rian Johnson Makes an Impression with Joseph Gordon-Levitt	In sunny Southern California , love-spurned loner Joseph Gordon-Levitt ( as Brendan Frye ) discovers his former girlfriend's dead body in a watery tunnel . In flashback , Mr . Gordon-Levitt recalls a strung-out Emilie de Ravin ( as Emily Kostich ) reaching out for help , explaining , " I screwed up real bad . " Unfortunately , the soon-to-be-dead blonde speaks in riddles . So , Gordon-Levitt is left with word clues - like " Brick " , " Tug " , " Frisco " , and " Pin " . Cross-legged genius Matt O'Leary ( as Brain ) provides assistance ; fortunately , he remembers everyone's locker number . Realizing the authorities are clueless , Gordon-Levitt decides to carry on his own investigation , beginning with doped-up rival Noah Segan ( as Dode ) . Gordon-Levitt infiltrates the drug ring managed by creepy Tolkien reader Lukas Haas ( as The Pin ) , after mixing with femme fatale Nora Zehetner ( as Laura ) and bodyguard Noah Fleiss ( as Tug ) . Alas , the closer Gordon-Levitt gets to solving the mystery of his ex's death , the more he gets smacked down . " Brick " shimmers with potential . Most obviously , debuting director / writer / editor Rian Johnson makes a great impression ; there is always something interesting happening on Mr . Johnson's screen . Steve Yedlin's crisp photography , and Nathan Johnson's peaking music , are great mood enhancers . Lead actor Gordon-Levitt continues to work wonders with interesting , offbeat roles ; and , importantly , shows he can " carry " a film , with his singular characterization . The story updates 1940s " film noir " quite effectively . The high school setting may have been a mistake ; other than the high-school grounded Mr . O'Leary , the " Brick " cast seem more like post-high school deadbeats . Gordon-Levitt visits his Assistant Vice Principal ( Richard Roundtree ) , but , nobody ever goes to class ; and , there are no scenes in the cafeteria or gym , either . The settings used , instead , are a real treat . Paintings , posters , birds , vehicles , and water add stillness and movement to backgrounds ; but , the movie is never gimmickry or busy . Perhaps the best inside joke ( and a great visual to boot ) was dressing up Mr . Haas as Jonathan Frid from " Dark Shadows " , with his Inverness-styled cape , and cane ; in silhouette , and behind a screen door , Haas even looks like " Barnabas Collins " . As a former " Dark Shadows " star , Gordon-Levitt would have been familiar with the figure ; he played " David Collins " and " Daniel Collins " during the series ' 1991 incarnation . " Brick " is a film to watch with focus and concentration ; if you can't bring those , wait for the right frame of mind . Brick ( 2005 ) Rian Johnson - Joseph Gordon-Levitt , Nora Zehetner , Lukas Haas
Raising Hell with William S . Hart	As the film begins , William S . Hart ( as " Blaze " Tracy ) is off-screen , in the appropriately named town of " Hell's Hinges " . Mr . Hart is a " man-killer whose philosophy of life is summer up in the creed ' Shoot first and do your disputin ' afterward ' ! " He believes neither law nor religion will ever come to the wretched town he loves . He is wrong . Jack Standing ( as Rev . Robert Henley ) is on his way to town ; he is , as you'll witness , a recently ordained minister with an eye for something other than ladies ' souls . Mr . Standing will also reveal a fondness for drink . Accompanying the bad reverend is his good sister Clara Williams ( as Faith Henley ) . Ms . Williams combines " the strength of character her brother so woefully lacks " and leads Hart to God ( the Jesus Christ version ) . But , is Hart a faithful servant of God , or just another Hell-raising western rogue ? This is an excellent , albeit absurd , film . Steely-eyed Hart is well heeled ; and , the fiery ending is tremendous . Standing's debauched preacher is unexpectedly entertaining . Williams was a noted actress ; but , she doesn't play innocent and alluring ; mainly , she looks admiringly at Hart ( and her brother ) . You may wonder what Hart sees in her , when they first meet ; although , Hart plays the scene well . It's difficult to understand the Williams / Hart attraction , which worked in other films . Thankfully , Louise Glaum ( as Dolly ) is around to play guiltily alluring ; presumably , Hart has had his fill of such women by the time Williams arrives . Hell's Hinges ( / 16 ) Charles Swickard - William S . Hart , Clara Williams , Jack Standing
Smooth Operator	Captivating director Joel Schumacher imprisons cocky publicist Colin Farrell ( as Stu Shepard ) in a Manhattan " Phone Booth " for almost the entire length of this eighty minute movie - and , the result approaches amazing . Mr . Schumacher's cinematic sense , and willingness to experiment , is worth of comparisons with Alfred Hitchcock . Most obviously , this film is " Rear Window " in reverse . Note how successfully both directors keep you , and their protagonists , is their opposite settings . Of course , Mr . Hitchcock ( for a small sample of his " phone booth " usage , see " The Birds " ) would have done several things differently in a feature-length " Phone Booth " . For example , the " menacing " toy near the beginning of the film would certainly have been owned by an annoying kid . And , the film's moral compass ends up strangely askew . Still , Schumacher , cast , and crew keep you on the line . Phone Booth ( / 02 ) Joel Schumacher - Colin Farrell , Kiefer Sutherland , Forest Whitaker
No Doubt	Sinister Joseph Cotten ( as Charles " Uncle Charlie " Oakley ) eludes some men in Philadelphia , then heads for Santa Rosa , California , where he plans an extended visit with adoring young niece Teresa Wright ( as Charlotte " Charlie " Newton ) and her family . Ms . Wright feels a " special " connection with Mr . Cotten , and the two share the nickname " Charlie " . While Cotton tries to lay low , people want to know , " Where is The Merry Widow Murderer ? " Could it be the Wright's beloved " Uncle Charlie " ? Great starring performances by Cotton and Wright , and superb direction from Alfred Hitchcock , are this film's main attractions . The supporting characters are all , at least , entertaining ; they include , notably , Hume Cronyn ( as Herbie Hawkins ) in his first feature . Mr . Cronyn , with his U . S . flag-pinned lapel , is an obvious supplier of red herrings . Macdonald Carey ( as Jack Graham ) provides Wright with some non-incestuous romantic possibilities . The story's promising psychological depth is somewhat marred by a plot which leaves too many important questions unanswered . The best piece of business that goes nowhere is matriarch Patricia Collinge ( as Emma Newton ) ' s brief reconsideration of her brother's character , after her daughter suffers two near-death " accidents " . Ms . Collinge is the only one who really loves Cotten ; and , if you think about it , she should know better . " Shadow of a Doubt " may not be perfect , but it's still excellent Hitchcock . Shadow of a Doubt ( 1943 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Teresa Wright , Joseph Cotten , Patricia Collinge
Tomorrow Never Knows	In the year 2054 , Washington D . C . is murder free zone . This is because a futuristic " Precrime " program has obtained three precognitive humans ( called " pre-cogs " ) who have a talent for predicting murder . The three individuals perpetually dream about future crimes , in a secured area nicknamed " The Temple " ; there , they float in a tank of water . The US government falsely claims the three live a luxurious lifestyle - working out in a weight room , for example - but , the pre-cogs are , essentially , imprisoned for the good of society . According to Precrime , the pre-cogs " see the future " and are " never wrong " . The Washington program has prevented all murders for the past six years , and is about to be implemented nationally . As the film opens , top Precrime gun Tom Cruise ( as John Anderton ) goes through some visual evidence downloaded from the pre-cogs ' minds , and arrests an individual for the " future murder " of his wife and lover . Mr . Cruise has a back-story . Years earlier , Cruise's young son was abducted , indirectly destroying his marriage . Cruise also takes illegal drugs , which does not effect his work or appearance adversely . Distinguished Director of Precrime Max von Sydow ( as Lamar Burgess ) is wary of arriving agent Colin Farrell ( as Danny Witwer ) . He should be , Mr . Farrell is there to investigate the Precrime program . Farrell fears the system may be flawed . Due to a startling encounter with pre-cog Samantha Morton ( as Agatha ) , Cruise also becomes suspicious . Then , the pre-cogs identify an unexpected murderer , right in the heart of Precrime ! Orwellian " thought police " ( aka thinkpol ) are never a good utopian sign . There are plenty of plot holes and / or contrivances in " Minority Report " . For example , how is it that these geniuses can't anticipate or detect an eye transplant ? And , a certain pregnant woman made me laugh out LOUD . Still , this is excellent , exciting entertainment from Mr . Spielberg and company . Turn off your mind , relax , and float with Steven . Minority Report ( / 02 ) Steven Spielberg - Tom Cruise , Colin Farrell , Samantha Morton
Richard Barthelmess Takes Shore Leave	Alone and friendless , drifter Richard Barthelmess ( as " Bilge " Smith ) visits a New York aquarium , and observes the sea creatures . Seeking employment and pals , Mr . Barthelmess decides to join the Navy . Meanwhile , in coastal Wautucket , dressmaker Dorothy Mackaill ( as Connie Martin ) longs for male companionship . " Shore Leave " brings sailor Barthelmess to Ms . Mackaill's attention ; and , she invites him over for a home-cooked meal . Barthelmess steals a brief kiss , and sets sail - but , he promises to return for more . Mackaill is smitten with her sailor date , and waits ? for years ? until Barthelmess returns ? A charming picture , but , today , it requires some suspension of disbelief . There are a couple of hints Barthelmess ' character was likely a " randy " sailor , so why did he settle for that lackluster first kiss ? And , the film explains the town of Wautucket was a fledgling seaport , but " spinster " Mackaill is lovely enough to have attracted some local attention . Later , Barthelmess rejects her because she's wealthy ! . . . but ? the actors make it believable . The film was much-admired in its day . Barthelmess ' performance in " Shore Leave " was one of the " Motion Picture Magazine " best of the year 1925 , alongside Lon Chaney , W . C . Fields , John Gilbert , and winner Emil Jannings ( for " The Last Laugh " ) . Mackaill ( a frequent co-star ) is also very good . There is a sweet , natural quality to their acting ( which certainly fits the storyline ) ; witness her falling in love over supper , and his recognition of her , after two years of sailing . John S . Robertson ( director ) and Roy Overbaugh ( cinematographer ) manage the New York locations and set pieces nicely . Debuting Ted McNamara ( as " Battling " Smith ) handles his comic sidekick role well ; he probably would have been a character actor long into the talking picture era , but died of phenomena in 1928 . Barthelmess has named his " Shore Leave " characterization as a personal favorite - still , it was his last collaboration with director Robertson ? who replaced Henry King ? who replaced D . W . Griffith ? Shore Leave ( / 25 ) John S . Robertson - Richard Barthelmess , Dorothy Mackaill , Ted McNamara
Soldiers of Love find Other Arms to Hold Them	Helen Hayes is a World War I nurse who falls for wounded soldier Gary Cooper . The war , and Adolphe Menjou , threaten to come between them . . . This film features some startling , indelible images . The acting is also first rate . Mr . Cooper and Ms . Hayes make their characters ' courtship very believable - with performances transcending what could be acted , or shown on-screen , at the time . Their closing scene is classic . Mr . Menjou leads a strong supporting cast ; interestingly , his interest in Cooper looks highly ambiguous , intentional or not . Arguably , Menjou's character shows more interest in him than her . The story is just a little too soapy ; and , it lacks a certain cohesion . It's unsteady , at times . Yet , director Frank Borzage elicits some dazzling performance and images in " A Farewell to Arms " . Peace . A Farewell to Arms ( 1932 ) Frank Borzage - Helen Hayes , Gary Cooper , Adolphe Menjou
All About Kate	Katharine Hepburn moves in with Ginger Rogers at a boarding house for ( mostly ) would-be actresses . Soon we meet the many women in the boarding house , and become involved in their hopes , friendships and competitions . . . This is a very busy film . We are introduced to many characters and situations , it's sometimes difficult to focus on the story . It's the revolving door of stardom ( one star dies , another is born ) , centering around the relationship between Ms . Hepburn and Ms . Rogers ( mainly ) and the rest ( complimenting the leads and the theme ) . The film's many other performers are distracting ? there are so many stars to watch . Eve Arden comes on with a cat and I don't know what else just happened ! I had to read the IMDb comments , and watch this one twice , to make sure I didn't miss anything . Stage Door ( 1937 ) Gregory La Cava - Katharine Hepburn , Ginger Rogers . Andrea Leeds
The Dark Nights at the Old Dark House	" A master criminal known as ' The Bat ' has held the city in a grip of error during his crime spree . His latest caper involves some embezzled bank money that apparently is hidden in the bank president's mansion . A reclusive woman and her niece are currently renting the mansion ? Our villain must find a way to frighten off the unsuspecting boarders in order to find the stolen money , as well as try to stay one step ahead of the law , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . " Can you keep a secret ? " the film begins , " Don't reveal the identity of ' The Bat ' . Future audiences will fully enjoy this mystery play if left to find out for themselves . " This excellent silent film should be much more highly regarded than it is , currently . Director Roland West , with cinematographers Arthur Edeson and Gregg Toland , creates a fine " Dark Night " setting for " The Batman " ; the film either influenced , or inspired imitations which influenced , DC's comic book hero . One of the film's many imitators was Mr . West's own " The Bat Whispers " ( 1930 ) . Jack Pickford ( as Brooks Bailey ) and West's wife , Jewel Carmen ( as Dale Ogden ) , lead the ensemble cast . This was Ms . Carmen's last feature film ; she was a fairly big star , but worked less as her popularity grew . The even more popular Mr . Pickford ( brother of Mary ) is quite good ; certainly , none of the problems which plagued Pickford in the late 1920s show up in his performance . Comedic maid Louise Fazenda ( as Lizzie Allen ) manages to stand out , despite datedness . And , Emily Fitzroy ( as Cornelia Van Gorder ) knits throughout . The Bat ( 1926 ) Roland West - Jack Pickford , Jewel Carmen , Louise Fazenda
Limelight is a Cruel Lover	Charlie Chaplin moves into the 1950s with an unusual drama about an alcoholic old timer ( Chaplin as Calvero ) and suicidal young ballerina ( Claire Bloom as Terry ) . The comedian " Calvero " is drunk as the film opens , and obviously in the twilight of his career . He rescues Ms . Bloom from a suicide attempt and helps her to get back on her feet ( so to speak ) . The film seems almost like nothing , but becomes quite substantial . It's a very thoughtful film - - obviously , Chaplin in his 60s has lost none of his film-making skills : the difference is that you come to Chaplin on His terms . No longer interested ( capable ? ) of producing massive audience " hits " , Chaplin produces an indulgent , sentimental " Limelight " . It's an excellent work , but very hard to digest . Some impressions : Comedy is ballet . Life is ballet . Young needs old . Old needs young . Comics need a drug . Perhaps the film needs a single focus ? I found the sequences where Chaplin is told by the " suits " he's washed-up to be most memorable ; along with the small scene where a comic goes in for Chaplin's job because he's heard the old clown is awful . The stuff with Buster Keaton is very nice , too , and makes you wish the would have done a full film together . I believe Keaton's role makes the film deliberately less autobiographical than many would believe , but you can never be sure ? Chaplin is interesting to watch always ; when he seems to be doing nothing , he's not . Limelight ( 1952 ) Charles Chaplin - Charlie Chaplin , Claire Bloom , Buster Keaton
When Barrymore Loves Costello	In an old French cathedral town , during the reign of Louis XV , devoted churchman John Barrymore ( as Chevalier Fabien des Grieux ) is studying to become a Priest . One May morning , virginal Dolores Costello ( as Manon Lescaut ) arrives at the musty convent , like " a flower freshly plucked from the countryside " ; when Mr . Barrymore sees Ms . Costello , the seeds of romance are firmly planted . Meanwhile , Costello's scheming brother Warner Oland ( as André Lescaux ) decides to prostitute sister Costello . Barrymore overhears Mr . Oland's plotting , and whisks Costello off to Paris . Eventually , Costello feels the lure of jewels and pretty clothes ; and , Barrymore is torn between lust and the Lord . Sheer nonsense , but extremely well-produced - - firstly , Alan Crosland's " When a Man Loves " is another great opportunity to see star lovers Barrymore and Costello ( who would soon marry off-screen ) . Oland and the man he sells Costello to , Sam de Grasse ( as Monsieur Guillot de Morfontaine ) , head up a delightful supporting cast . Look out for a hilariously over-painted Bertram Grassby ( as Le Duc de Richelieu ) , Tom Santschi sneeringly captaining the convict boat , and pretty prisoner Myrna Loy . The convict ship trip ending , with its swelling Vitaphone soundtrack , and Barrymore going ballistic . . . all fantastic . Barrymore's performance becomes amazing . Don't desert the ship - - keep watching until the exciting ending payoff .
All the Brothers Were Valiant	Ramon Novarro ( as Joel ) is the youngest of the seafaring Shore family . While older brother Ernest Torrence ( as Mark ) is off on a long voyage , Mr . Novarro falls for fetching Joan Crawford ( as Pricilla ) . Upon returning , Mr . Torrence is revealed to have also fallen for the bewitching Ms . Crawford - and , eventually , the brothers become rivals . Crawford prefers Novarro , but her father " betrothes " her to Torrence . Before their wedded bliss begins , however , the Shore brothers must make a trip to Singapore ; it's Novarro's first voyage with older brothers , after proving himself in a barroom brawl . While sailing " Across to Singapore " , a fierce storm blasts the Shore brothers ' " Nathan Ross " ship - with tragic results ? Actually , this is a version of " All the Brothers Were Valiant " . Perhaps the title was changed because one brother clearly dominates ( Novarro ) , and only one other figures prominently ( Torrence ) . Although there are four Shore brothers , you won't see much of the others , valiant or otherwise . It's odd MGM re-made this story in 1928 ; it was seen relatively recently , in 1923 , with Malcolm McGregor , Lon Chaney , and Billie Dove as Joel , Mark , and Pricilla . AND , there was no sound version until 1953 , with Robert Taylor , Stewart Granger , and Ann Blyth in the principal roles . Novarro performs very well , especially enjoy his scene with Crawford , when she boards the ship to bid farewell , before his maiden voyage . It's also one of Crawford's best scenes , and the lower " Nathan Ross " set is beautifully detailed . Anna May Wong also performs very well ; though uncredited , she is the best supporting player . Note Ms . May Wong's excellent introduction ( during the first trip to Singapore ) - she relates her dissatisfaction with her man , and her desire for Mark , with a few simple gestures . May Wong is superb , and should have been included in the film's credits . James Mason ( not the later actor ) is fine as the villain . There are some problems with the story . The whole " betrothed " issue is confusing to me , and may be to others . I also don't understand why an experienced sailor like Mark Shore immediately goes below and gets drunk ; perhaps , he saw little brother with Crawford earlier on ? I wondered how Mark Shore could order a certain character killed , and , seconds later reverse said order . Though a fine actor , I had some trouble accepting Torrence in this role - I expected him to be the villain , due to his other indelible portrayals . A big MGM production , with a lot of excitement , and a fine cast . The voyages of the " Nathan Ross " are particularly exciting ? great storm , and great ending . This is a film that was " saved " in the nick of time , however , and some of the film is sadly deteriorated ; happily , it is still enjoyable . Across to Singapore ( 1928 ) William Nigh - Ramon Novarro , Joan Crawford , Ernest Torrence
Super Freaky After All These Years	Wallace Ford ( as Phroso ) is a clown at a carnival freak show . There , beautiful trapeze artist Olga Baclanova ( as Cleopatra ) enjoys the company of strongman Roscoe Ates ( as Hercules ) ; however , she also enjoys toying with the affections of midget Harry Earles ( as Hans ) , much to the dismay of his similarly statured fiancée Daisy Earles ( as Frieda ) . When the normal-sized Ms . Baclanova finds out little man Mr . Earles is rich , she decides to lure him into marriage . At her wedding feast , Cleopatra's ulterior motives become clear to the " Freaks " ; then , they enact their terrifying revenge ? The last great Tod Browning film ; " Freaks " has to be seen to be believed . The cast is sometimes so riveting , they distract from the story . After all these years , the " Freaks " remain stunning . BUT , really - - if only this had been filmed a few years earlier , as a silent ? ( sigh ) Freaks ( 1932 ) Tod Browning - Wallace Ford , Olga Baclanova , Harry Earles
Alfred Hitchcock casts a Minor Spell with Ingrid Bergman and Gregory Peck	Stolid psychoanalyst Ingrid Bergman ( as Constance Peterson ) falls head over heels in love at first sight with handsome Gregory Peck ( as Anthony Edwardes ) . Young Mr . Peck is the newly arriving young director at the Vermont insane asylum , where Ms . Bergman dispenses lay analysis . Soon , it becomes obvious that Peck is harboring a very dark secret - he is an amnesiac ( John Ballantine ) suspected of murdering the asylum's real director , and taking his place . Love-struck Bergman assumes the identity of Peck's wife , and endeavors to prove he is not guilty . Soon , Peck's fragile psyche will have you questioning not only Peck's innocence , but also Bergman's sanity ? Alfred Hitchcock's obvious directorial touches make " Spellbound " a good watch . Surrealistic artist Salvador Dali contributes a psychotic dream sequence , and composer Miklós Rózsa's eerie theremin-enhanced soundtrack adds some suspense . Bergman and Peck look , and act , splendid for the master , basking in beautiful black-and-white photography from George Barnes . Michael Chekhov ( as Alex Brulov ) and Leo G . Carroll ( as Murchison ) are good supporting doctors . Pretty Rhonda Fleming ( as Mary Carmichael ) is a nymphomaniac who , sadly , isn't left alone with Peck . The film's " Achilles ' heel " is its ludicrous psychobabble . Spellbound ( 1945 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Ingrid Bergman Gregory Peck , Michael Chekhov
The Way You Wear Your Hat	In order to fend off an admiring ballerina , phony Russian ballet star Fred Astaire ( as Peter " Petrov " Peters ) falsely claims he's married to a beautiful American musical star he admires , Ginger Rogers ( as Linda Keene ) . To complicate matters , and get closer to lovely Ms . Rogers , Mr . Astaire joins her on a ship leaving France for New York . On board , Rogers treats Astaire with disdain , while gossiping newspapers report their " secret wedding " and " blessed event " . Can Astaire's elegant charm , and sweet singing , win Rogers ' heart ? for real ? " Shall We Dance " dutifully duplicated the success of previous Astaire / Rogers box office hits . Astaire issued his standard three 78 RPM Brunswick singles , which proceeded to saturate radio waves , and effortlessly made " Hit Parades " during the spring of 1937 - peaking in the following positions : " They Can't Take That Away from Me " ( # 1 ) / " ( I've Got ) Beginner's Luck " ( # 13 ) , " Shall We Dance ? " ( # 3 ) / " Let's Call the Whole Thing Off " ( # 5 ) , and Astaire's version of Rogers ' film song " They All Laughed " ( # 6 ) / " Slap That Bass " . The wonderful George & Ira Gershwin written songs , and the workmanship RKO / Astaire / Rogers delivery , is what really keeps the film's flimsy , formulaic story above board . Shall We Dance ( 1937 ) Mark Sandrich - Fred Astaire , Ginger Rogers , Eric Blore
No Matter Where You Go , There You Are	Buckaroo Banzai's latest adventure ( and , his first revealed in any media ) begins with Peter Weller as the Samurai , " renaissance man , neurosurgeon , physicist , race car driver , rock star , AND comic book hero " test driving his Jet Car through a mountain . Due to the vehicle's " oscillation overthruster " , Mr . Weller emerges unscathed - he and his Jet Car pass through solid matter . Unfortunately , the car picks up a glob of inter-dimensional matter . Coincidentally ( actually , not coincidentally ) , super-weird physicist John Lithgow ( as Emilio Lizardo ) ends his five decade residency at the " New Brunswick Home for the Criminally Insane " . . . As it turns out , Mr . Lithgow is an alien ( they are all named " John " ) from " Planet 10 " . On Halloween 1938 , Lithgow and some " Red Lectroids " arrived on Earth . Their mission failed , and many were thrown into " The 8th Dimension " . This event was , by the way , was misinterpreted as an invasion from Mars , by Orson Welles , during his infamous October 30 , 1938 radio broadcast version of H . G . Wells ' " War of the Worlds " . By the late 1960s , other media hinted at the continued Lectroid presence . Examples include ABC-TV's " The Invaders " and novelist Thomas Pynchon's " The Crying of Lot 49 " . Presently , defeating the Red Lectroid invaders is up to multi-talented " Buckaroo Banzai " ( Weller ) and his hard-rocking team of " Hong Kong Cavaliers " : Lewis Smith ( as Perfect Tommy ) , Jeff Goldblum ( as New Jersey ) , Clancy Brown ( as Rawhide ) , Pepe Serna ( as Reno Nevada ) , and Billy Vera ( as Pinky Carruthers ) . Suicidal Ellen Barkin ( as Penny Priddy ) provides Banzai romantic interest . " The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai ( Across the 8th Dimension ) " is intelligent fun , from writer Earl Mac Rauch and director W . D . Richter . Lithgow is a perfect Lectroid , " Laugh while you can , monkey boy ! " Really , he and the likes of Vincent Schiavelli ( as John O'Connor ) couldn't be anyone but aliens , could they ? In hindsight , perhaps the " Black Letroid " and " Penny Priddy " parts might have been better re-worked . Still , it's a classic . And , it still leaves you looking forward to " Buckaroo Banzai Against the World Crime League " , with Weller and the Cavaliers . The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai ( 1984 ) W . D . Richter - Peter Weller , John Lithgow , Lewis Smith
The Pleasure of His Company	Tennessee Williams ' tale of sexual repression in a small Mississippi town makes it to the big screen , with enough , but not all , of its integrity intact ; most notably , it glistens when it should sweat . Geraldine Page ( as Alma Winemiller ) is excellent as the minister's daughter who guiltily longs for rakish playboy Laurence Harvey ( as John Buchanan Jr . ) . Ms . Page's characterization is one that unravels ; its full impact realized is in a devastating last act . Mr . Harvey does well , successfully conveying the near-equal importance of his character . Page gives Harvey spiritual love , and he wants her physically ; their reversal of desire is very convincingly , and thoughtfully , portrayed . Excellent supporting performances are highlighted by crazed Una Merkel ( as Mother Winemiller ) and lonely Earl Holliman ( as Archie Kramer ) . If the film seems a little too staged , remember , it is Tennessee Williams ; a staged atmosphere is pardonable when your fluttering heroine speaks lines like , " The wind is penetrating this afternoon . " ( A decade earlier , Page played the role on stage . ) Elmer Bernstein's soundtrack is lovely . Music , performance , and dialogue give " Summer and Smoke " an appropriately sexually-charged atmosphere . Toss thoughts of blasphemy to the wind , and turn OFF the color ( if you can ) , to watch " Summer and Smoke " in mood-altering grayish tones . Summer and Smoke ( 1961 ) Peter Glenville - Geraldine Page , Laurence Harvey , Una Merkel
Full of Sound and Fury	Humphrey Bogart plays grimacing detective Sam Spade in John Huston's " The Maltese Falcon " - a classic film ; and , it deserves that status , in many respects . The performances are and " noir look " of the film help tremendously . Peter Lorre's was the best characterization - and , he's great with " The Fat Man " Sydney Greenstreet . Mr . Bogart was memorable , as was Mary Astor , but , I didn't see any special magic in their relationship ( perhaps none was intended ) . It was nice to see Bogart paired with a woman closer to his own age . The weakest element in " The Maltese Falcon " is a story that never really takes a stranglehold on your mind ; which is made worse by the fact that it always seems like it is about to - like there is some mysterious all-connecting story element to be revealed ( perhaps none was intended ) . The Maltese Falcon ( 1941 ) John Huston - Humphrey Bogart , Mary Astor , Sydney Greenstreet
Close to the Dirt	In Italy , a platoon of American GIs must rid a farmhouse of its Nazi occupants . " A Walk in the Sun " is expertly directed by Lewis Milestone , utilizing Russell Harlan's perceptive camera . It's unusually poetic , for the time , courtesy of writers Harry Brown and Robert Rossen . And , certainly , the film should grow in stature , over the years , when compared to the more typical war dramas released during its era . Upon release , the film was no doubt considered noteworthy for its " realism " . Presently , this strength is weighted . Still , the film's substance endures . Strong characterizations are provided by the cast of soldiers . Two stand out , and give the film greater emotional depth . Though it begins , necessarily , as a team effort , reluctant Dana Andrews ( as Bill Tyne ) emerges as the " hero " ; and , John Ireland ( as Windy Craven ) stands out among the other soldiers . Mr . Andrews is the man who takes command , after leader Herbert Rudley cowers under the pressure . Andrews is terrific ; especially , note how he fights off the same war fatigue and mental illness that claimed his predecessor . Mr . Ireland's performance , as a poetic minister's son , is award-worthy . Each of the film's characters attempt to grab you : " the farmer " , " the prophet " ? accompanied by an almost too sentimental , heart-tugging soundtrack . But , however you try to resist , it's impossible not to fall under Ireland's spell , as he explains " G . I . Dirt " , and writes letters home " in his head " . While Andrews takes explicit control of the mission , it's Ireland who implicitly provides the battle plan . The film does well in portraying a platoon's waiting , talking , teamwork , and action during war .
Down the Rabbit Hole with Wayne Kramer	" Struggling mob hand Joey Gazelle ( Paul Walker ) finds his life turned inside-out when a ' hot ' weapon he's in charge of concealing goes missing . With two mafia families and a team of crooked cops watching his every move , Joey sets out on a chilling , bloody pursuit , maneuvering his way through a horrific web of creeps and criminals , praying he can retrieve the gun and make it home to his family - alive , " according to the Warner Home Video synopsis . Well , Mr . Walker turns out to not quite fit that description ; and , you won't see much time spent on " praying " ( perhaps , Warner Brothers meant " preying " ? ) - anyway , Wayne Kramer's " Running Scared " is a shocking , viscerally violent , and potentially offensive bloodbath . Two of the film's featured players are adolescents , Cameron Bright ( as Oleg Yugorsky ) and Alex Neuberger ( as Nicky Gazelle ) . The youths do well in their roles , but I'm not sure they should see the movie - at least , not without an intense debriefing conversation . Kramer , with photographer James Whitaker , and their crew make " Running Scared " a relentlessly violent , but beautifully filmed , " Grimm " fairy tale . The " pedophile " sequence , with Bruce Altman ( as Dez ) and Elizabeth Mitchell ( as Edele ) , is astonishingly well shot . Here , with a bright set and creepy shadows , Kramer's suggestion of horror is chilling . This section of the film is most successful , with relatively little violence , and no sex . For fans of less subtle bloodletting , Kramer ends with a some brutally violent hockey rink horror . In hindsight , there are some improvable plot points ? Vera Farmiga ( as Teresa ) and Ivana Milicevic ( as Mila ) make their presence felt , in a largely male film . And , Karel Roden ( as Anzor Yugorsky ) is a John Wayne fan from Hell . The end credit characterizations , which hammer home the fairly tale quality hinted at throughout , are well-drawn , and seem a little wasted in proximity . While exceedingly violent , " Running Scared " is a striking , stylish film . Running Scared ( 2006 ) Wayne Kramer - Paul Walker , Cameron Bright , Vera Farmiga
Bobby Driscoll Comes of Age	Bobby Driscoll ( as Robert " Bibi " Bonnard ) is a teenager " coming of age " in 1920s Ottawa . Mr . Driscoll's uncle , traveling salesman Louis Jourdan ( as Desmond Bonnard ) , is away when the film begins ; he enjoys a " playboy " lifestyle , but returns soon , for a visit . Driscoll's father , Charles Boyer ( as Jacques Bonnard ) appears to have grown out of an extended career of his own , as a " ladies ' man " ; and his father , randy Marcel Dalio ( as Grandpa Bonnard ) , recognizes " la puberty " is beginning for Driscoll ? Everyone in the cast is outstanding ; but , " The Happy Time " is , more than anything , Driscoll's film . He more than holds his own , among the distinguished cast . Watching Driscoll perform in this film makes his sudden slide from favor all the more puzzling - - he may not have grown up according to the Disney studio's specifications , but few do . As evidenced here , Driscoll should have had a long working career as , if anything , a comedian ; " ? only one is from the burlesque , the other was obtained privately , " he says , arriving at the dinner table wearing garters . Director Richard Fleischer does Earl Felton's smartly written play justice . The film is full of nice " symbolic " touches - - the canary , the girl's braces , and the medals appearing inside more than one of the characters ' jackets . While beautifully done , the film's ill-mannered presentation of sex , love , and gender roles seems very queer ; probably , the film's themes held significantly more charm in the 1950s . Also worth watching for Kurt Kasznar ( repeating his stage role as a possibly alcoholic neighboring uncle ) , Marsha Hunt ( whom Driscoll seems to take after , in looks ) , Linda Christian ( recalling of Eva Gabor ) , Jimmy Bishop ( a young Chuck Connors ) , and Marlene Cameron ( entering her own " happy time " ) .
First You Must Learn How to Kill	I put the tape in , made a quick trip to the refrigerator , and returned to find six guys acting like they were animals , being massacred by hunters . Curses ! I thought the tape hadn't been re-wound - - and , I was watching the ending . BUT , it was only a nightmare . This IS how the film begins . . . Barry Robins ( as " Cotton " ) wakes up , all right , in his " Box Canyon Boys Camp " cabin . Mr . Robins rounds up his troops ; then , they head out to save the buffalo ? and civilization . The opening " flashback " is appropriately disturbing . More importantly , it clearly and directly relates the teenagers at the " Boys Camp " to caged animals . Further flashbacks tell the story of how the six " emotionally disturbed " kids are put out , by failed parents , to be either housed or " corrected " . The camp's motto is : " Send Us A Boy ? We'll Send You A Cowboy " ! The prospective cowboys , corralled by leader Robins , are : stoner Bill Mumy ( as " Teft " ) , comedian Miles Chapin ( as " Shecker " ) , fairy Darel Glaser ( as Goodenow ) , and feuding siblings Bob Kramer ( as " Lolly 1 " ) and Marc Vahanian ( as " Lolly 2 " ) . The entire cast performs well , with Robins and Mr . Mumy more obviously standing out . Watch for a great scene , after the travelers ' " Pest Control " truck , hot-wired by Mumy , runs out of gas . Robins tries to start the truck ; and , his hopeless efforts trigger an important " flashback " . Imaginatively directed , by Stanley Kramer , we see Robins through his mother's vanity mirror , applying make-up for a young date . When Robins threatens to reveal his mother's age , she responds , " I'll kill you . . . " Telling . Another important , well-played , sequence occurs with Mr . Glaser's last " flashback " - - to when he was " cast out " of his cabin . Branded a " sissy " for bed wetting , Glaser is humiliated , and attempts suicide . Robins is the boy's Savior ; he raises " Goodenow " from a drowning pool to the " Bedwetters " cabin , where introductions are made . This part of the film might have been better placed earlier , as it so effectively " introduces " the individual characters , and cinematically ties them together as a team . While this is a " non-linear " film , there are editing / continuity problems ( real and speculative ) ; hopefully , a better cut version of " Bless the Beasts & Children " can be found . The music is outstanding : both the instrumental theme by Barry DeVorzon and Perry Botkin Jr . , and the vocals " Bless the Beasts and the Children " ( by Carpenters ) and the ill-titled " It's a Beautiful Day " by co-star Mumy ( written with Paul Gordon ) . Bless the Beasts & Children ( 1971 ) Stanley Kramer - Barry Robins , Bill Mumy , Darel Glaser , Miles Chapin
Nothing But the Best	This is a great film from director William Wyler , cast and crew . I agree with so many of the prior comments . The film's appeal - represented early on by amputee Harold Russell - is that this is going to be a realistic depiction of post-war comings home . Mr . Russell , Mr . March , and Mr . Andrews make a great team , and each give great performances . Russell is an amputee , March has an alcohol problem , and Andrews shows some post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms . The film shows them adjusting , or not adjusting , to civilian life . Myrna Loy is wonderful to watch ? especially , her eyes . The background / foreground action is nice . I noticed that March and the others do not look like they've missed all that much shaving , despite the script . In fact , March's moustache looks very neatly trimmed , to me . My major criticism is , after starting as a " realistic " drama , the film ends with a glossy " happy ending " . The servicemen's differing problems are all too conveniently . . . gone . The movie becomes less a realistic drama and more a Fantasy Hollywood Movie . It becomes way , way too sentimental . It's , still , incredibly well-presented sentimentality . I think its closeness to the actual war being represented both adds and detracts from the film . I'm sure audiences benefited from this movie greatly during release - but , it was too soon for an honest reflection . Instead of it's goal , I think the film becomes an essential American time capsule . It shows the mood of the country in a way , today , the filmmakers were perhaps not expecting - and , it's sentimentally perfect Hollywood ending is no less valuable than gritty real life dramas . The Best Years of Our Lives ( 1946 ) William Wyler - Fredric March , Dana Andrews , Myrna Loy , Harold Russell
A Red-Blooded American Man and Woman	In 1994 , Oliver Stone held a mirror up to the face of America's preoccupation with mindless violence , and most recoiled in disgust . It was a good sign ! Alas , the obsession remains ; and , with a few twists and turns unforeseen in Mr . Stone's film . Perhaps , it won't end until a " reality show " films an actual " Mickey and Mallory Knox " in action . Until then , " Natural Born Killers " gives the lowest common dominator exactly what they won't admit they desire : " The gory details . " Thankfully , Stone and his skillful crew depict the violence in an artful , poetic , and ( sometimes ) humorous manner . Violent or not , it is an excellent piece of film-making . Stone , with photographer Robert Richardson , uses film types and techniques in an extraordinarily powerful way ; the differing styles are a relevant enhancement of the story , rather than a catalog of gimmicks . Stone brilliantly captures 1990s TV media ( and beyond ) . In particular , Robert Downey Jr . ' s portrayal of an Australian Geraldo Rivera-type interviewer " Wayne Gale " is a dead-on treasure . This type of interviewer peddles the perverse as entertainment ; and , with viewers ratings , turns " folks " like Charles Manson , Bonnie , and Clyde into celebrity stars . A decade later , Chris Hansen's " To Catch a Predator " proved media could sink even lower , by celebrating pedophilia . Woody Harrelson and Juliet Lewis are individually chilling and brave , in the lead roles ; somehow , they aren't as memorable together as other criminal and / or degenerate couples ( " Bonnie and Clyde " , " Sid and Nancy " ) . Perhaps , their relative aloofness is intentional . Mr . Downey Jr . and Tom Sizemore are award-worthy , in their supporting roles ; the former's portrayal is the best example of the film's uncomfortable resonation . Stone's soundtrack choices ( Yo ! Patti Smith ) rock . The " Nature / Nurture " balance / influence on the film's anti-heroes is explained during the appropriately placed " Super Bowl " TV interview . Natural Born Killers ( 1994 ) Oliver Stone - Woody Harrelson , Juliet Lewis , Robert Downey Jr . , Tom Sizemore
Audie Murphy Carries the Flag after Everything Has Gone Boom	Director John Huston's version of Stephen Crane's U . S . Civil War classic " The Red Badge of Courage " is an unusual , but ultimately engrossing , film . It is infamous for provoking major Hollywood infighting - read Lillian Ross ' " Picture " , a book on the film's troubled history . Huston's original version was severely cut ; unfortunately , the missing footage is believed to have been destroyed . Yet , this film fairly accurately retains the novel's possibly controversial storyline / theme , as a generous amount of soldiers are shown deserting their battalion ( including the star protagonist ) . It's enough to make you wonder what was cut , and why . The youthful Audie Murphy ( as Henry Fleming ) is terrific as the Union soldier confronting feelings of cowardice , before fighting Confederate rebels . A genuine World War II hero , Mr . Murphy carries the film extraordinarily well . The sequence wherein Murphy ends a battle with the American flag held high , as he holds the Confederate flag waving sideways above ground , should be an iconic movie image . It photographically capsulizes the war for many . Murphy's courageous performance was worthy of some " Best Actor " consideration . The narration , despite being genuine Crane , doesn't quite work ; but , the supporting characters , led by loud soldier Bill Mauldin ( as Tom Wilson ) convey the novel's voices nicely . Despite having his film cut by ( possibly ) half , Huston's direction remains excellent . And , Harold Rosson's black-and-white photography is also award-worthy . Salute the cast and crew for surviving " The Red Badge of Courage " so eloquently . The Red Badge of Courage ( 1951 ) John Huston - Audie Murphy , Bill Mauldin , John Dierkes , Royal Dano
The Racism in Your Face	Well-mannered nurse Jeanne Crain ( as Patricia " Pinky " Johnson ) returns to her poor " Black " neighborhood , in Mississippi . There , she is welcomed by washerwoman grandmother Ethel Waters ( as Granny ) . The pair are confronted by racism both outside and inside their home . Most importantly , it is revealed that Ms . Crain has been " passing " as " White " . Moreover , Crain has become engaged to Caucasian doctor William Lundigan ( as Thomas Adams ) . While working at home , to support Crain's nursing education , Ms . Waters has grown close to ailing Ethel Barrymore ( as Miss Em ) . At first , Crain does not understand or accept the friendship between Waters , a former slave , and Ms . Barrymore , a former plantation owner . But , for her grandmother , Crain agrees to become Barrymore's nurse . " Pinky " is a nerve-rattling classic . Probably , the most obvious " debate " point was the casting of Crain in the title role . Crain was definitely " pink " enough ( or , white-looking ) ; but , her general " movie star " persona makes the casting decision seem risky . Yet , Crain , under Elia Kazan's direction , triumphs . There are so many ways Crain could have fallen into acting traps - she could have used mannerisms , make-up , and / or other stereotypical devices to " camp " up the " Black " - but , she avoids each trap . Crain performs the role with a great amount of dignity . She was deservedly honored with an " Academy Award " nomination . Barrymore and Waters also perform well ( as you might expect ) . We are never , in the film , given a clear statement of facts regarding the heritage of Crain's " Pinky " . My guess is that she is related , by blood , to both Waters and Barrymore . An attempted rape of Crain's character accounts , arguably , for her pink appearance ; this might have occurred in more than one generation . It's also possible that a loving " mixed race " relationship was part of either Ethel's past . Making the " Black / White " history more clear would have only gotten the film into more trouble . " Pinky " was quickly censored , and headed for the US Supreme Court . One of the Board of Censors ' objections was , " a white man retaining his love for a woman after learning that she is a Negro . " However , Mr . Lundigan's " Thomas " is only willing to retain his love under certain conditions ; and , this leads to a sharp , less " Hollywood " - styled ending . The Supreme Court was correct . Some of the film's best scenes show the way Crain is treated after other characters learn she is not white . Pinky ( 1949 ) Elia Kazan - Jeanne Crain , Ethel Barrymore , Ethel Waters , William Lundigan
Tra-La-La ( and The Killing of Georgie , Part I )	A startling trip into the lower-class bowels of the fourth largest city in the world , circa 1952 . This is the film version of Hubert Selby Jr . ' s unrelentingly pessimistic 1964 novel " Last Exit to Brooklyn " . In the film medium , the material makes a sideways , but successful , impression ; this is an exceptional drama . There are many great sub-plots , and performances ; but , mainly , the film focuses on the character stories involving beautiful young prostitute Jennifer Jason Leigh ( as Tral ) , and striking bisexual union leader Stephen Lang ( as Harry Black ) . Writer Selby has said , " Sometimes , we have the absolute certainty that there's something inside us that's so hideous and monstrous that , if we ever search it out , we won't be able to stand looking at it . But , it's when we're willing to come face to face with that demon , that we face the angel . " Selby's brutal , heart-wrenching treatment of its characters would not have been as successful a film without an extraordinary look at the " angel face " referred to in his quote . In a scene not in the book , young Cameron Johann ( as Spook ) , who has a teenage " crush " on Ms . Leigh , happens upon her drunken figure , after she is nearly raped to death . She is resurrected by his tear-stained face , and realizes her fling with soldier Frank Military ( as Steve ) provided fulfilling sexual intimacy . The scene implicitly offers salvation to Mr . Lang , who , after attempting sex with an underage boy , has been crucified . Still , the film can't shed some " dock-time " , for rancid sexual one-sidedness . Director Uli Edel , cinematographer Stefan Czapsky , editor Peter Przygodda , and musician Mark Knopfler are award-worthy . Jennifer Jason Leigh won several well-deserved awards , but no Oscar ; and , there are at least five performances worthy of a " Best Supporting Actor " nomination . From the central roles , to the smallest " walk on " player ; this film is an example of " ensemble acting " at its best . Its shocking content must have put off a lot of viewers , at the time ; yet , " Last Exit to Brooklyn " succeeds because its violence is not mindless . Last Exit to Brooklyn ( 1989 ) Uli Edel - Stephen Lang , Jennifer Jason Leigh , Peter Dobson , Cameron Johann
From Montgomery Clift to Eternity	Fred Zinnemann's " From Here to Eternity " is really more of a soap opera than a war story . Still , it is very well done , and very entertaining . The main attraction isn't World War II , or the soap opera story lines - the main attractions in " From Here to Eternity " are the actors ' performances . Montgomery Clift's is the " main attraction " performance . He makes his character the central figure , despite other story lines , and his performance is mesmerizing . Every look Clift gives , every facial tic , every syllable is fascinating to watch . And , it's all very natural ? very character-driven . Not that all the others aren't terrific , too . Burt Lancaster is a close second , and everyone performs exceptionally well . Mr . Clift's performance helps elevate both the other performances , and the film in general . Check out how great he makes all the other actors , " look " simply by playing a bugle . This is a case where an actor's performance affects both the other players in the scene , and even leaves its impressions in scenes where the actor doesn't appear . If you take Clift out of the film , you have a much more ordinary movie . I'm not sure , however , what / if the film is trying to say about war - is it making a statement of some kind ? The main story is : Will Mr . Clift's character box ( fight ) ? or , won't he fight ( box ) ? I guess he is bullied into fighting , but does not initiate fighting ( he blinds a man , symbolically , by knocking him out in an unseen fight ) . I am not sure if I got the film's message , or even if there was one . I would have also made either MORE EXPLICIT or MORE SUBTLE the whole prostitution part - it was a place to have sex during the time , I guess . Donna Reed and the other women were prostitutes , I guess . Since they couldn't make it more explicit , they toned it down to make us really think these men went to town so they could exchange " nice " smiles with " nice " women . Elsewhere , Mr . Lancaster and Ms . Kerr's sound like they've had physical relations , when , it looked , to me , like they'd only been hit by a wave . I know this was the ' 50s , but filmmakers had developed many subtle ways of relaying this information ? for the prior half century ! So , what it boils down to : This is a great wartime soap opera , with great performances . From Here to Eternity ( 1953 ) Fred Zinnemann - Montgomery Clift , Burt Lancaster , Frank Sinatra , Deborah Kerr
A Killer Opening and a Dead Letter Ending	Bette Davis wields a gun well , firing shot after shot into a man , in the killer opening of " The Letter " . Do not miss the opening minutes of this film . Then , the story unfolds - Bette ( as Leslie ) is the respected wife of upstanding Singapore plantation owner George Brent ( as Robert Crosbie ) . Ms . Davis claims the dead man was an old acquaintance who entered and attempted rape . Davis ' story is not questioned ; then , a man goes to lawyer James Stephenson ( as Howard Joyce ) with a letter from Davis to the dead man , which contradicts Davis ' story . Davis ' performance is masterful ; in the opening she is able to arouse viewer suspicion without ever actually saying anything or indicating guilt , directly . Mr . Brent and Mr . Stephenson are appropriately supporting in Davis presence ; they seem to often play opposite a commanding actress in showcase film . Gale Sondergaard is startlingly effective as the wife of Davis ' victim . William Wyler and Tony Gaudio directed and photographed artfully . The entire production is superb , with a slight letdown as the story comes to confusing end . The Letter ( 1940 ) William Wyler - Bette Davis , Herbert Marshall , James Stephenson , Gale Sondergaard
Chariots of the Gods	Charlton Heston ( as Judah Ben-Hur ) grows up in Judea , around the same time as Jesus Christ . A wealthy Jew , Mr . Heston maintains his princely lifestyle , despite the Roman occupation of his land . After a number of years , Heston encounters old friend Stephen Boyd ( as Messala ) , a Roman . Heston soon discovers that politics does not , in every case , make strange bedfellows ; as Mr . Boyd is the steadfast leader of the occupying Roman forces . Soon , the political upheaval threatens Heston's freedom , and life ? " State-of-the-art " epic , from William Wyler and the outstanding MGM cast and crew . Relatively speaking , this film is not as " original " as the 1925 version ; still , it's a very worthy update , with superlative production values . With a few exceptions , the film looks very natural , unlike the increasingly tired animated " look " used for big productions some decades later . The film's lighting , scenes , and direction are very aesthetically appealing . The supporting characterizations are better than those in the older version . Christianity remains respectfully restrained ; arguably , the amount of Christian faith demonstrated by Heston is unnecessarily subdued . Heston takes some getting used to , as the young Jewish hero ; in fact , he looks more convincing as a Roman , especially after his " adoption " by Jack Hawkins ( as Quintus Arrius ) . An interesting , but unacceptable-at-the-time , idea might have been for Heston and Boyd to switch roles ; Boyd appears capable of handling either " Judah " or " Messala " . Still , Heston wins you over ; his scenes in the " slave boat " , and the reunification with his leper mother are outstandingly played . Boyd's characterization is extraordinary ; watching the way his eyes dart over Heston , in their first scenes together , lends credence to co-writer Gore Vidal assertion there was a homosexual subtext planned for the characters . Realistically , homosexual relations were not all that uncommon among the ancient Romans . Although , this was not likely to be found in the Lew Wallace novel , it does help explain the otherwise inexplicable love / hate relationship between the " Judah " and " Messala " characters . The entire supporting cast does very well , it must have been difficult for award nominators to single anyone out . But , in addition to those mentioned above , Haya Harareet's " Esther " and Hugh Griffith's " Sheik Ilderim " most definitely make an impression . The film's weakest moments occur during the very fake looking " sea battle " sequence ; surprisingly , the old 1925 version is much more consistently exciting . Both films ' " chariot races " are essential thrill rides . Ben-Hur ( 1959 ) William Wyler - Charlton Heston , Stephen Boyd , Jack Hawkins , Hugh Griffith
There's a Killer on the Road	Boyishly handsome C . Thomas Howell ( as Jim Halsey ) is driving from Chicago , Illinois to San Diego , California . Though lighting up a number of cigarettes , and sucking up a thermos full of coffee , Mr . Howell is unable to refrain from nodding off ? SO , after narrowly escaping a head-on collision due to fatigue and bad weather , Howell sleepily decides to pick up a sopping wet hitchhiker . . . " My mother told me never to do this , " but , " I wanted to help him , and I was tired . I thought he might help me stay awake , " Howell explains . Unfortunately , " The Hitcher " turns out to be maniacal serial killer Rutger Hauer ( as John Ryder ) , in the middle of a bloody rampage . Mr . Hauer confesses he is dismembering drivers who pick him up . Hauer terrorizes Howell for the remainder of the film ? " I want you to stop me . " Outstandingly paced suspense and blood-splattering gore , from director Robert Harmon , photographer John Seale , and writer Eric Red . The Harmon / Seale / Red team make this " road trip " a classic exploitation . Casting Howell in the lead exceeds any expectations . Jennifer Jason Leigh ( as Nash ) makes a perfect semi-trashy western waitress ( she serves as a " wishbone " for the men ) . Mark Isham's score is great . And , Hauer's villainous " Best Supporting Actor " - worthy performance would define gay subtext , IF he were more subtle . The Hitcher ( 1986 ) Robert Harmon - C . Thomas Howell , Rutger Hauer , Jennifer Jason Leigh , Jeffrey DeMunn
John Barrymore and Marie Dressler are the Main Course	David O . Selznick and MGM's " Dinner at Eight " is a great comedy-drama follow-up to " Grand Hotel " . Although it seems to have been less critically acclaimed ( back then , at least ) , it's actually a little better . The story , characters , and setting are more related ; they are all affected by the " Great Depression " , and involved , directly or indirectly , with Lionel Barrymore ( as Oliver Jordan ) and Billie Burke ( as Millicent Jordan ) ' s planned dinner party . One story , or subplot , in " Dinner at Eight " is much superior to the rest of the dramatic elements ; it is the story of washed-up alcoholic actor John Barrymore ( as Larry Renault ) . While never less than good , no other story strand approaches Mr . Barrymore's riveting mini-drama . Barrymore and Lee Tracy ( as Max Kane ) perform especially well together . The other truly exceptional performance honor goes to Marie Dressler ( as Carlotta Vance ) . Ms . Dressler doesn't have her own " play " ; instead , her character serves an interlocking purpose . And , she carries the rest of the movie . Director George Cukor , photographer William Daniels , and the several credited writers are noteworthy , particularly for the Barrymore / Tracy scenes . Ms . Burke , Jean Harlow ( as Kitty Packard ) , and Louise Closser Hale ( as Hattie Loomis ) are among the others in top form . Watch Barrymore's increasingly desperate " Larry Renault " and Dressler's wise overseeing " Carlotta Vance " , for iconic performances from stars at their peak ; in , at least , the best supporting characterizations of the year . Dinner at Eight ( 1933 ) George Cukor - Marie Dressler , John Barrymore , Jean Harlow , Lee Tracy
A Vampire Film That Doesn't Suck	While touring the French countryside , dream prone Julian West ( as Allan Grey / David Gray ) stops at an enigmatic inn , next to an eerie castle . Mr . West meets the mysterious " Lord of the Manor " ( Maurice Schutz ) , and becomes involved with the castle's shadowy denizens . Of particular interest are pretty victimized Sybille Schmitz ( as Léone ) and distressed damsel Rena Mandel ( as Gisèle ) . A conveniently published book explains ( believe it or not ! ) that there is a monstrous vampire in the mist ( Henriette Gérard ) , assisted by a frightening old doctor ( Jan Hieronimko ) . This is an anemic " Vampyr " story , substantially elevated by artfully direction and photography by Carl Theodor Dreyer and Rudolph Maté ( with Louis Née ) . Although the plot isn't very intriguing , the visuals provided by Mr . Dreyer and crew are always impressive , especially West's dreamy burial sequence , which must have influenced Ingmar Bergman ( and many others ) . The ending , an update of D . W . Griffith's " A Corner in Wheat " ( 1909 ) , is also notable . Dreyer's inspirational playing with light and shadows raises his " Vampyr " far , far above its relatively disappointing storyline . Vampyr ( 1932 ) Carl Theodor Dreyer - Julian West , Sybille Schmitz , Rena Mandel , Maurice Schutz
Arliss	George Arliss is bewitching as " Disraeli " . Mr . Arliss ' character secures control of the Suez Canal for Great Britain , outmaneuvering Russian spy Doris Lloyd . He also plays " matchmaker " for Joan Bennett and Anthony Bushell . Arliss ' performance is captivating , despite the datedness of this early " talking " movie . Nobody can equal Arliss , but I did like Ms . Lloyd as his sparring partner . Ms . Bennett was good , also - a cut above her average " stand around and look beautiful " films from this period . The players were elevated , possibly , in Arliss ' presence . There are some noticeable ways they could have made a better film , by waiting even a year or two . I would like to see the film restored ; moreover , I would accept some tinkering / editing for a new version ( while preserving the original , of course ) . If you like classic " one-man-show " acting performances , it's hard to beat Arliss in this movie . He performs like a spider spinning its web - capturing everything in sight , including the audience . Be careful ! Disraeli ( 1929 ) Alfred E . Green - George Arliss , Joan Bennett , Anthony Bushell , Doris Lloyd
Making Movies Magical	Great early film short , directed superbly by D . W . Griffith . In it , Lillian and Dorothy Gish play sisters ( is that ever inspired casting ? ) terrorized by a wicked housekeeper and her male companion . They have the Gish sisters locked in a room , and terrorized them by firing a gun through a hole in the wall . It doesn't sound like much , but the direction makes in exciting ( there is a race to rescue them after they are able to make a phone call ) . Lillian and Dorothy Gish look extraordinary on film , together , in " An Unseen Enemy " ; though , the situation more than a little implausible . The Gish sisters are radiant . Also noteworthy are the scenes with Robert Harron which open and close the drama , earning him a Kiss from Dorothy Gish . The three of them are natural actors , which Griffith ( and audiences ) could plainly see in this film . Great photography . D . W . Griffith , Lillian Gish , Dorothy Gish , Robert Harron , and G . W . Bitzer - making the screen magical in " An Unseen Enemy " . . . An Unseen Enemy ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Dorothy Gish , Robert Harron , Elmer Booth
Gone Fishing	Craig Sheffer ( as Norman ) and Brad Pitt ( as Paul ) are Montana sons-of-a-preacher man Tom Skerritt ( as Reverend Maclean ) . You will immediately notice the breathtaking Montana scenery - photography by Philippe Rousselot , direction by Robert Redford , with an obviously adept cast and crew . The kids playing the younger Macleans were quite an asset ; I did recognize Joseph Gordon-Levitt in an impressive debut ( though not his first ) . As I was watching , I thought : well , it looks all nice , but what's happening ? I was unsure about the film's focus . The film is often slow and confusing , even if you are familiar with the Norman MacLean story ; and , this is a somewhat alternate version / vision of the original written work . And , I realized what I was watching . It happened twenty minutes ( or so ) after the kids " grew up " - this is the story of Norman Maclean's remembrances ? the touching stones of his life . They may not be the things you'd believe an old man remembers ; but , by the end of the film , you know . You'll understand the focus on his brother , with that magical quality that just slipped away ? Perhaps , there was no perfection there ; but , you'll know why Norman sees it . You'll know why that memory of the perfect fly fisherman is there . Just a few other thoughts : At the risk of over-analyzing , I felt the characters of Norman , Paul , their father , and Redford merging into ONE character at the end of the film ; I wonder if Redford intended it that way ? His direction , narration , and lead performances seemed blend together ? Directing , Preaching , Fishing , the River - it all runs together ; and , we're all water . The end of the film is very powerful . A River Runs Through It ( 1992 ) Robert Redford - Brad Pitt , Craig Sheffer , Tom Skerritt , Brenda Blethyn
The Way You Wear Your Hat	Excellent early film , expertly featuring " legendary " director D . W . Griffith and " legendary ' actress Mary Pickford before they became " legendary " . When Ms . Pickford's mother dies , she is despondent . Her mother ( Kate Bruce ) didn't have much , but managed to leave Pickford enough money to buy some " finery " ; the money is bequeathed to the local Pastor ( Lionel Barrymore ) . When Pickford admires " The New York Hat " in a downtown shop window , Minister Barrymore decides to buy it for her - - which ignites gossipers ; they link Mary and the Minister in a " romantic " scandal . Watch Pickford act before , with , and after " The New York Hat " . Her performance is great ; she plays her part as a young woman , not a little girl , simply and effectively . Her emotions are extraordinarily well-conveyed , for G . W . Bitzer's camera , under Griffith's direction . A charmer . The New York Hat ( 1912 ) D . W . Griffith - Mary Pickford , Lionel Barrymore , Charles Hill Mailes , Kate Bruce
Unbecoming an Officer	Kirk Douglas is very effective as a police detective with an surprise connection to someone he encounters on the job . Mr . Douglas ' performance is outstanding ; and , the supporting players all move around him like a finely tuned clock . Of them , I thought William Bendix was superb , very natural - everyone is fine , in fact , as directed by William Wyler . Of the little stories , I liked the young couple - the thief and girlfriend . I had to go to see the IMDb comments to find out what was happening in the film - I really couldn't understand some of the dialog Since the film deals with " issues " considered too delicate to really talk about in a movie , you have to really pay attention . To reveal more would spoil the film - but , its weakness is that it couldn't really be totally " realistic " due to the era when it was produced . Observe , for example , the amount of profanity uttered in that precinct ! The strongest word used is " tramp " . " Detective Story " does manage to bring its characters and story to the viewer , and scores points for realism ( despite some likely censorship ) . Keeping that in mind , it's an essential character study . Detective Story ( 1951 ) William Wyler - Kirk Douglas , Eleanor Parker , William Bendix , Lee Grant
Matt Damon Passes the Bar for Francis Ford Coppola	" Francis Ford Coppola directs and scripts an exciting , star-packed adaptation of John Grisham's novel about an idealistic young attorney who takes on the case of a lifetime , " exactly as promotional synopsis promises , " Matt Damon plays Rudy Baylor , a rookie lawyer in over his head on a high-profile case . Opposing him : an army of seasoned legal sharks ( led by Jon Voight ) . On Rudy's side : Deck Shifflet ( Danny DeVito ) , a feisty ' paralawyer ' who specializes in flunking the bar exam . Rudy's chances are slim to none - until he uncovers a trail of corruption that might lead to the one thing that could win his case : the truth . " Mr . Damon's almost simultaneous participation in " Good Will Hunting " probably blew some of the wind out of this film's sails ; in hindsight , " The Rainmaker " shines brightly , and includes some award-worthy work . The most obvious nomination for " Supporting Actress " would be veteran Teresa Wright's lovely swansong as " Miss Birdie " ( it turned out to be the last of many great performances ) . Additionally , Mr . DeVito and Mr . Voight should have received some " Supporting Actor " consideration . The film features many strong characterizations , with Damon's lead providing perfect counterbalance . He , director Coppola , and novelist John Grisham are a formula worth repeating . Coppola manages to adapt Mr . Grisham's story successfully to film ; and , he keeps the staid courtroom sequences exciting . The characters played by Claire Danes ( Kelly Riker ) and Johnny Whitworth ( Donny Ray Black ) seem lacking - an additional scene or two , with Damon , would have been nice . The film's thesis rings true , and is expertly concluded . Grisham , Coppola , and Damon are a winning firm . The Rainmaker ( / 97 ) Francis Ford Coppola - Matt Damon , Danny DeVito , Jon Voight , Teresa Wright
Make the Extraordinarily Suspenseful visit to " Gun Hill "	Don't miss the beginning of this film . Not only is it essential to the whole picture , but it is also a great example of how a filmmaker can show a brutal crime without showing the details on-screen . In the opening , a brutal rape and murder occur ; director John Sturges and the performers relay very effectively what happens , it's the horror in your mind . Kirk Douglas stars , and he is riveting . My favorite of Mr . Douglas ' scenes is when he describes a hanging to Earl Holliman - it's an " award-worthy " performance ; but won none or few , no doubt . The others all perform amicably , too . After Douglas goes to Gun Hill , he sees old friend Anthony Quinn ? watch how Douglas and Mr . Quinn play their first scene and you'll see how good these two actors are . You always have to suspend disbelief in film watching , and a western is a little different . Westerns have their own world , which you accept , or don't . I could not really accept Mr . Quinn and Earl Holliman as father and son , at first . I think it could have been helped if Quinn had done something different with his hair ; he never seemed concerned about thinning or gray hair , so I can't fathom the hair ? it made him look younger than usual . After the movie went on , I decided to just accept that like I accept the rules you accept when you watch a western . Besides , Quinn and Holliman are far to good to replace . Then , add Carolyn Jones . . . Now , I figured , at first , she would have the standard " look pretty and kiss the hero " role - - but , that was not so ; actually , she was given a real good part and had a chance to perform a meaningful acting role . Ms . Jones showed she should have been given more good film roles . So many westerns try build this suspense - - " Last Train from Gun Hill " should have you shaking in your cowboy boots . Last Train from Gun Hill ( 1959 ) John Sturges - Kirk Douglas , Anthony Quinn , Carolyn Jones , Earl Holliman
The Unfortunate Birth of a Clan	As the film itself states , " This is a depiction of the events of the civil war and of the formation of the Ku Klux Klan from the point of view of the American South . " Let that be a warning ! Still , expert motion picture making from D . W . Griffith , G . W . Bitzer , and company . This film should receive a perfect " 10 " - - but the aggravating and overt racist theme is sometimes worse than the actual war . The " Negro race " is , if you think about it , blamed for the Civil War - - beginning with the unbalanced opening : " The bringing of the African to America planted the first seed of disunion . " The " Civil War " depicted in " Birth of a Nation " isn't over until the end of Part 2 ; when Confederates band together as the Ku Klux Klan , and defeat the " Negroes " . In this film , the KKK wins . Part 1 , by the way , is somewhat more tolerable - - but , by the end of Part 2 , the film's message becomes obvious . Note that Jesus Christ makes a God-blessed-this-film appearance . Otherwise , Lillian Gish ( as Elsie Stoneman ) and Henry B . Walthall ( as Ben Cameron ) are extraordinary in the lead roles ; she represents the North , and he represents the South . The Stomeman and Cameron families ' friendship and conflicts , due to the war , would have been a good , singular film focus . Of course , Mr . Walthall's character is a racist hero , but he performs the role exceptionally well . Ms . Gish is at her silent best ; don't miss the scene where , after a date with Walthall , she caresses her bedpost ! Second leads Elmer Clifton ( as Phil Stoneman ) and " daughter of the south " Miriam Cooper ( as Margaret Cameron ) hold their own against the powerful Gish and Walthall . Ms . Cooper has eyes which seem slightly askew in some shots , giving her an eerie quality . Josephine Crowell ( as Mrs . Cameron ) shines , among the more mature performers . Mae Marsh and Violet Wilkey ( both as Flora Cameron ) are quite memorable , also . In a supporting role , Robert Harron ( as Tod Stoneman ) is at Gish-level acting ; don't miss the scene with Harron embracing George Beranger ( as Wade Cameron ) when the " chums " expire on the battleground . Harron makes the scene especially touching . Note that Harron appears later on , in an unexpected role . Joseph Henabery is another appearing in different roles ; he is most memorable as Abraham Lincoln ; the assassination sequence is another film highlight , with Raoul Walsh ( as John Wilkes Booth ) . Harron and Ms . Marsh would be even more dazzling in Griffith's next , " Intolerance " ( 1916 ) . Another great scene occurs when Walthall walks unsteadily out of the hospital with Gish , while guard William Freeman gives Gish a last longing sigh . And , it's easy to see why Wallace Reid ( as a blacksmith ) ' s search for Walter Long ( as Gus ) , in " Joe's ginmill " , was a star-making brawl . The Birth of a Nation ( / 15 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Henry B . Walthall , Mae Marsh , Robert Harron
We Call It " The Media Circus "	Brilliant film directed by Billy Wilder and starring Kirk Douglas . Hard to describe , better just watch . Mr . Douglas stars as a probable alcoholic newspaperman who milks a story about a man trapped in a cave . You do get the feeling his awareness of human condition ( all humans , not just journalists ) is what's eating away at him . Jan Sterling is a revelation as the blonde Douglas and Bob Arthur pick up - she has lines like , " I don't go to Church , kneeling bags my nylons . " Porter Hall has a great supporting part as a the " Tell The Truth " editor who is first to lap up the lies . " Ace in the Hole " is also know as " The Big Carnival " - currently , ( in real life ) , its called " The Media Circus " . The film grows more horrific every year . The parallels to today's " news " are so obvious they almost need no mention - I would only add that today's media circus events like the big rescue to occur on a Sunday . Ace in the Hole ( 1951 ) Billy Wilder - Kirk Douglas , Jan Sterling , Robert Arthur , Porter Hall
The Best Things in Life Are Free	At TAIT University , students more interested in each other , and football , than they are in learning French ( does that sound dated ? ) . June Allyson ( she's Connie ) and Peter Lawford ( he's Tommy ) are the focus of attention . She's the nice librarian interested in the star football player ; he , understandably , attracts the school's most desirable women . Does a plain librarian have a chance to win the star football player ? The screenplay , direction , choreography , and songs all hit the mark in " Good News " . Ms . Allyson and Mr . Lawford are an unlikely duo to head the cast , but they turn in extraordinary performances . Allyson and Lawford mix just the right amount of awkward charm and graceful professionalism to bring the story alive ; it's something rare in musicals of this type . The supporting cast members compliment the leads well . Allyson is at her very best - from her introduction " under the sink " to her careful dropping of book after book during a later scene , she is marvelous . With her character doing double duty as the college librarian , her role of student is believable , despite being relatively older . Lawford is not known as a singer / dancer , but his performance is as charming . Watch how he : studies French , passes a hairbrush to his coach , jumps over a fire hydrant , and puts a handkerchief in his pocket - the quick succession of bits is well-done and subjectively defines the Lawford character . The film is full of little things the characters and director ( Charles Walters ) do to fill out the movie without increasing its running time . Of the great supporting cast , Joan McCracken is certainly the most valuable . Her " Pass that Peace Pipe " with Ray McDonald ( another outstanding performance ) is a soundtrack highlight . It's " political incorrectness " really doesn't hold up , in context . Of the mature players , Jane Green is just delightful - note the scene with Allyson and Connie Gilchrist ( Mrs . Drexel ) ; it's when Allyson give the older woman a " script " to " play-act " , explaining how Tommy's family has lost its fortune in Pickles due to the great Cucumber Blight . The supposed " error " in placing the film in the 1920s with most of it looking like the 1940s actually HELPS . I would have titled the movie " The Best Things in Life Are Free " , though , and re-recorded the vocals on the finale . Still , " Good News " is an example of this type of film at its graceful , exuberant best . Good News ( 1947 ) Charles Walters - June Allyson , Peter Lawford , Joan McCracken , Ray McDonald
DeathWatch ( ? or Sex , Lies , and Videotape )	University of Austin philosophy professor Kevin Spacey ( as David Gale ) is a well-known death penalty opponent ; ironically , he is about to be executed for the rape / murder of co-protester Laura Linney ( as Constance Harraway ) . With four days to live , Mr . Spacey tells beautiful reporter Kate Winslet ( as Elizabeth " Bitsey " Bloom ) his story - vehemently asserting he did NOT kill Ms . Linney . Ms . Winslet listens to Spacey explain the events leading up to the crime , which we see in " flashbacks " . As she hears Spacey's testimonial , Winslet begins to investigate the unfolding mystery , with smoking intern Gabriel Mann ( as Zack Stemmons ) assisting . The final , final twist wasn't a complete shock ; but , there is a great deal of welcome uncertainty throughout most of the film . Alan Parker's " The Life of David Gale " is a roller-coaster - managing to be suspenseful , unpredictable , and thought-provoking . The part that comes closest to misfiring is Spacey's drunken rant about Plato , Socrates , and Aristotle . But , the character was , at the time , a philosophy teacher battling alcoholism . In fact , Charles Randolph's story is very tightly written ; with wall posters , stuffed animals , and car trouble all making complete sense . Winsome Winslet and Mr . Mann are the " present " story co-stars , with " flaming liberal " Spacey and Linney leading the " flashback " cast . The two different story lines are crosscut beautifully . The acting is exceptional , with Linney probably outdistancing the others - she certainly has the most demanding role , which she performs courageously , and without a double . How does an A-list actress , like Linney , receive no " Best Supporting Actress " consideration for her work in this film ? As a movie pair , Winslet and Mann are quite impressive . Mr . Randolph , director Parker , and the cast make both the major and minor characters memorable . The film could have been given a more interesting title than " The Life of David Gale " ; too bad " sex , lies , and videotape " and " DeathWatch " were unavailable . In the past , this basic story appeared under titles like " Capitol Punishment " , " Circumstantial Evidence " , and " " Beyond a Reasonable Doubt " . However labeled , this is one of the more engaging takes on the ancient law . The Life of David Gale ( 2003 ) Alan Parker - Kate Winslet , Kevin Spacey , Laura Linney , Gabriel Mann
Sex , Race , and Sadism ! ( with Fannie Ward , Sessue Hayakawa , and Cecil B . DeMille )	" East is East and West is West and never the twain shall meet . " Fannie Ward ( as Edith Hardy ) is an extravagant socialite who is told by husband Jack Dean ( as Dick Hardy ) she must cut down on spending , as he meets with business failures ; instead , she takes $10 , 000 from the Red Cross fund she is entrusted with , and gambles it on a " sure thing " - sure enough , she loses the money . Desperate to replace the money , Ms . Ward turns to wealthy party host Sessue Hayakawa ( as Tori aka Arakau ) , who is secretly attracted to her . Mr . Hayakawa gives Ward the money , but wants a sexual encounter the next night . Then , Mr . Dean makes a Stock Market killing , and is rich again . Ward takes $10 , 000 to pay off Hayakawa , but he won't bargain ? This is a lurid melodrama , filled with sex , race , and sadism ; but , it is redeemed by several factors . Cecil B . DeMille directed artfully ; his use of light and shadows is remarkable . The portrayals of Fannie Ward ( as " The Cheat " Edith Hardy ) and Sessue Hayakawa ( as Tori aka Arakau ) are among the finest of the era . You'll want to watch this film with the remote nearby , as there are a few scenes you may want to see re-played immediately . The Japanese community objected , understandably , to the film's racially prejudicial appeal ; so Hayakawa's character was changed from Japanese Hishuru Tori to Burmese Haka Arakau , for a 1918 re-release . Presumably , the Burmese community was not amused . The Cheat ( / 15 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Fannie Ward , Sessue Hayakawa , Jack Dean , James Neill
Hart of the Country	Outside the pale of civilization , two western Kings roam . One is a wild horse ; the other is William S . Hart ( as Ice Harding ) , evil leader of the most daring band of outlaws in the Nevadas . Not surprisingly , Mr . Hart is the man to tame the wild Pinto , which he names " King " . Then , masked for thieving , Hart robs a coach containing Sylvia Breamer ( as Betty Werdin ) . The seemingly sweet Ms . Breamer is traveling with her " Uncle " , Milton Ross ( as Admiral Bates ) . Hart thinks Breamer is , " The most wonderful being he has ever seen . " In town , Breamer's icky wonderfulness begins to melt Hart's icy wickedness . But , Hart doesn't know Breamer's secret ? The first of Hart's Paramount period ( though , second released ) is a definitive high point ; " The Narrow Trail " is one of the best examples of the " Hart western " ( if you're looking for one to sample ) . The star , director Lambert Hillyer , and photographer Joe August are at their best , creating a beautiful landscape for the Hart formula to play upon . The film is perfectly paced . Hart's horse , " Fritz " ( as " King " ) , makes a screen " return " , which fits amazingly well into the storyline . And , Hart has one of his most conscientious " man to horse " talks . Best of all is the twist on a recurring Hart feature ; to wit , an otherwise ordinary woman attracts Hart with an allurement only he can see ; but , this one's refreshingly different . The Narrow Trail ( / 17 ) Lambert Hillyer - William S . Hart , Sylvia Breamer , Milton Ross , Bob Kortman
Under Valentino's Tent	Sheik Rudolph Valentino ( as Ahmed Ben Hassan ) lives in the blessed oasis of the Sahara Desert ; when he sees a woman he wants , he takes her . Lady Agnes Ayres ( as Diana Mayo ) , the orphaned daughter of an English poet , visits Arabia , and catches Mr . Valentino's eye . The modern Ms . Ayres wants to visit the local casino , where Valentino entertains , but she is turned away . Furious , Ayres borrows a harem dancer's costume , and sneaks into the action . Discovered , and ousted , Ayres is nevertheless attracted to the dreamy Valentino , who has decided to abduct her ? Unexpectedly , Valentino's " Sheik " caricature became one of filmdom's most memorable roles ; in fact , it might be considered , stylistically , Valentino's greatest . He must have had mixed feelings about the film ; as Valentino admittedly approached acting as an art , which this isolated performance doesn't ( arguably ) show . Still , it is a great , however misunderstood , performance . Ayres is a good feminine conquest ; she is lovely , but never ravishing enough to move the spotlight too far away from the star . Adolphe Menjou ( as Raoul de Saint Hubert ) lends both subtext , and a good performance . The presence of barbarous Walter Long ( as Omair ) , coupled with the love of Ayres , helps reform Ahmed's immoral character . The supporting and bit players are uniformly interesting . Importantly , director George Melford and photographer William Marshall give " The Sheik " a very crisp , moving style . Roger Bellon's soundtrack is one of the best retrospective soundtracks composed for an old silent . Whatever its criticisms , Valentino's bulging " Sheik " is difficult to disregard ; it remains a definitive classic . The Sheik ( 1921 ) George Melford - Rudolph Valentino , Agnes Ayres , Adolphe Menjou , Walter Long
James Cagney Gives it Up for " The Dead End Kids "	One of the best of its type , " Angels with Dirty Faces " epitomizes the " gangster " and " juvenile delinquent " pictures of the 1930s ( and 1940s ) . These are the films showing how unfortunate circumstances turn young men into hardened criminals . It's the " Nature vs . Nurture " argument . And , don't waste any time wondering about this film's stance - the title says it all - if you rub that dirty criminal's face hard enough , you'll find a hidden Angel . This is the case with tough guy James Cagney ( as Rocky Sullivan ) , who landed in reform school for stealing , and was seduced into a life of crime . It may be too late for Cagney , but not for the younger generation of dirty-faced angels known as " The Dead End Kids " , who worship the charismatic gangster . At least , that's the way scarred priest Pat O'Brien ( as Jerry Connolly ) sees things . Father O'Brien , who escaped Cagney's fate , wants salvation for the little tough guys . Cagney's courageous , shoulder-rolling turn as " Rocky " is entrancing ; absolutely , he deserved a " Best Actor " award - which the " on target " in the 1930s New York Film Critics delivered . Directed by Michael Curtiz , the classic line-up of " Dead End Kids " - Billy Halop as " Soapy " , Bobby Jordan as " Swing " , Leo Gorcey as " Bim " , Gabriel Dell as " Pasty " , Huntz Hall as " Crab " , and Bernard Punsly as " Hunky " - are a symphony of spitting , smoking , and ( mostly ) smacked upside the head young punks . The memorable Warner Brothers supporting cast includes rheumy-eyed lawyer Humphrey Bogart ( as James Frazier ) , sultry Ann Sheridan ( as Laury Ferguson ) , and perfectly cast Frankie Burke ( as a young James Cagney ) . " Social Consciousness " - raising films can often trip over themselves , so don't watch this one in the wrong frame of mind . Angels with Dirty Faces ( / 38 ) Michael Curtiz - James Cagney , Pat O'Brien , Billy Halop , Humphrey Bogart
In Living Color	It's difficult to imagine anyone ( with a straight face ) filming a more definitive version of " Robin Hood " than this one . This is the story of the green clad crusader and his band of " Merry Men " ; to combat injustice , they rob from the rich and give to the poor . Errol Flynn ( as Robin Hood ) , Olivia de Havilland ( as Lady Marion Fitzwalter ) , Basil Rathbone ( as Sir Guy of Gisbourne ) , Claude Rains ( as Prince John ) , Patric Knowles ( as Will Starlett ) and Eugene Palette ( as Friar Tuck ) head up a great cast . Alan Hale ( as Little John ) most notably reprises his role , from the previous standard " Robin Hood " ( 1922 ) . Tony Gaudio and Sol Polito set stunning standards in color photography . And , Erich Wolfgang Korngold's soundtrack punctuates the picture perfectly .
Church of the Poison Mind	Cecil B . DeMille's Paramount EPIC " The Ten Commandments " tells the Old Testament's " Moses " story during its first hour . The " special effects " highlights are : Theodore Roberts ( as Moses ) parting the Red Sea , and the Biblical patriarch's thunderous receiving of God's commandments . The production is first rate throughout . After about fifty minutes of spectacle , the film switches to a " Modern Story " - wherein Mr . DeMille seeks to tell a morality story involving " The Ten Commandments " . For the main story ( the more memorable Moses segments were a mere " prologue " ) , DeMille introduces the McTavish brothers - saintly carpenter Richard Dix ( as John ) , and partying atheist Rod La Rocque ( as Dan ) . While Mr . Dix stays home to read The Bible , with dear mother Edythe Chapman ( as Martha McTavish ) , Mr . La Rocque breaks Commandments , with lovely Leatrice Joy ( as Mary Leigh ) . Of course , Dix falls in love with Ms . Joy , after she becomes his brother's wife ? DeMille's morality tale is extremely heavy-handed , but nevertheless enticing , and expertly directed . The " Biblical " and " Modern " story format recalls D . W . Griffith's superior " Intolerance " ( 1916 ) . The all-star cast ( it's 1923 , remember ) performs exceptionally , with La Rocque being seen in one of his finest performances . As any actor will tell you , La Rocque was halfway there , upon receiving the " bad brother " role , over Dix - and , La Rocque runs away with the film . His is a " Best Actor " - worthy performance . Nefarious Nita Naldi ( as Sally Lung ) leads a strong supporting cast . All things considered , this one's a lot more fun than the 1956 re-make . The Ten Commandments ( 1923 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Rod La Rocque , Richard Dix , Leatrice Joy , Theodore Roberts
You Can Make It If You Cry	After his stunning 1990s success , Steven Spielberg satisfied those salivating to despise him , with " A . I . Artificial Intelligence " . The poised knives could be released , at last ! So , the initial reactions took an undeserved negative tone , while , still , offering praise to individual efforts too obviously evidenced in the production to ignore . This is really an excellent , thought-provoking film . The beginning of the film could have been improved by combining the character " Professor Hobby " into " Henry Swinton " . The resulting " Henry Swinton " would , then , more closely resemble " Geppetto " from " Pinocchio " . This would , necessarily , make " David " the image of their dead son . Then , the parents ' conflict would be the focus of the film's first act . This would have made the relationship between the parents much more dynamic ; and , it would throw the mother " Monica " ( Frances O'Connor ) into incalculable conflict with the robotic " David " , resolved in the film's already powerful ending . Mr . Spielberg marvelously breathes life into Stanley Kubrick's unrealized project ( he died before realizing this dream work ) ; and , he directs Haley Joel Osment ( as David ) to a peak performance level . Mr . Osment , Jude Law ( as Gigolo Joe ) , and " Teddy " ( voiced by Jack Angel ) are an unforgettable " mecha " ( short for " mechanical " ) trio of humane robots . Janusz Kaminski and the Spielberg crew are magical . Good night , David . Pleasant dreams . A . I . Artificial Intelligence ( 2001 ) Steven Spielberg - Haley Joel Osment , Jude Law , Frances O'Connor , William Hurt
A Classic Silent Comedy	Poor barmaid Marion Davies ( as Tina ) is the drudge of the " Red Mill Tavern " ; she is always " in Dutch " , meaning ( wittily ) both " in trouble " and " in Holland " ( this comedy's setting ) . Ms . Davies ' only friend is Ignatz , a little white mouse , who lives in her shoe . One day , Davies sees Owen Moore ( as Dennis Wheat ) ice skating ; and , she is attracted to him . She ventures out to find Mr . Moore surrounded by female admirers , but manages a meeting . Davies must struggle to win Moore's heart , after she learns he is a Governor , betrothed to a wealthy maiden . " The Red Mill " is a very funny silent comedy , which still works , today , thanks to expert work by director Roscoe " Fatty " Arbuckle ( incognito as " William Goodrich " ) . Davies and Moore are a winning comic team ; and , Davies ' starring performance is particularly fine . Louise Fazenda , Snitz Edwards , and Karl Dane are perfect in supporting roles . And , Ignatz is a delightful mouse . Many of the title cards , by Joseph Farnham , from Henry Blossom's original play , are hilarious : " My name's Tina " " Mine's Wheat . Wheat-Tina . We ought to get together for breakfast . " " She's got a beautiful chassis . " " Never mind the chassis . Wait till you see what she's got under the hood . " " I never believed in love at first sight until I took a second look at you . " " I'm through ! There's too much traffic on your ladder . " " You must be twins . No one man could be so dumb ! " Of course , the visual situations are necessary to fully enjoy the comedy . " The Red Mill " is also extremely well-photographed , by Hendrik Sartov , who worked with D . W Griffith and Lillian Gish . The exciting finale , with George Siegmann whipping Davies , and locking her in the windmill , is almost an " homage " to Griffith and Siegmann's similar treatment of Ms . Gish , in some well-known Griffith films . But , what happened to poor Ignatz ? A final pan should have revealed the mouse was alive and well .
A Rare Breed	Texas teenager Tommy Kirk ( as Travis Coates ) is directed to assume the role " man of the house " when his father leaves on a three-to-four hour cattle round-up . Young Kirk is to watch over the ranch , with mother Dorothy McGuire ( as Katie ) , and little brother Kevin Corcoran ( as Arliss ) . While tending the corn field , a wayward dog causes Kirk trouble , scaring a mule and ruining Kirk's day . Kirk has no use for " Old Yeller " , but brother Corcoran loves the " ugly , lop-eared mongrel " . The dog stays in the picture , but for how long ? A classic family story . Kirk and Yeller make terrible first impressions on each other . Kirk does not like " Old Yeller " . He tries to manage the dog as he thinks an " adult " would , and recalls an older family pet as irreplaceable . Yeller is not fooled by Kirk's growing pains , and the two become hopelessly bonded . Eventually , the story becomes almost . . . Shakespearian . Robert Stevenson directed , with a great Disney production team . Credit must be given to Fred Gipson and William Tunberg's mature screenplay - and , especially to Kirk , who performs his part superbly . All things being equal , Kirk should have received some " Best Actor " award notices for his role in " Old Yeller " . It's difficult to imagine this film working without his sincere , captivating performance . Little Corcoran has more typical Disney role ; his scenes with Kirk ( discussing Heaven ) and Chuck Connors are nicely done . Try to ignore the garish Indian headdress . Young Beverly Washburn ( as Lisbeth Searcy ) plays her " puppy love " for Kirk just right . Ms . McGuire and father Fess Parker ( as Jim ) are realistic , loving , and supportive . " Old Yeller " is , truly , the " best doggone dog in the west . " Old Yeller ( 1957 ) Robert Stevenson - Tommy Kirk , Dorothy McGuire , Kevin Corcoran , Fess Parker
Simply the Best Movie Monte Ever Made with James Taylor & Dennis Wilson	Rock star good-looking dragsters James Taylor ( as The Driver ) and Dennis Wilson ( as The Mechanic ) stop at service stations and roadside diners . At one café , sexy stowaway Laurie Bird ( as The Girl ) climbs into their 1955 Chevy ( and , later , into their jeans ) . After some roadhouse blues ( taking Jim Morrison's " Moonlight Drive " ) , the young men encounter exhibitionist Warren Oates ( as G . T . O ) , who thinks Mr . Taylor's Chevy is harassing the bright new Pontiac he shows off to hitchhikers . Increasingly bored , Ms . Bird laments taking the back seat . Increasingly annoyed , Mr . Oats challenges what he calls the " two punk road hogs " to a race . Bird flies into Oats ' coupe ( temporarily ) . Taylor and Mr . Wilson make arrangements for a race with Oats . The winner takes all pink slips . Kris Kristofferson sings " Me and Bobby McGee " . Bird sings " ( I Can't Get No ) Satisfaction " . Taylor and Wilson sing nothing at all ; but , if they had , the film's spell would be broken . Monte Hellman's " Two-Lane Blacktop " is not an easy rider . Often , it seems like nothing is happening . But , the characters and situations blend into something very pure , and dependable . Laid-back Harry Dean Stanton's gay cowboy and trucker George Mitchell ( the first handyman on " Dark Shadows " ) , fit perfectly into the mix . The landscape is extraordinary . The story is minimalist . Criticism is pointless . It can be about anything . And , the road goes on forever . . . Two-Lane Blacktop ( 1971 ) Monte Hellman - James Taylor , Dennis Wilson , Laurie Bird , Warren Oats
Jackie Coogan Cleans Up	Five-year-old orphan Jackie Coogan ( as Jackie Blair , " The Boy " ) arrives at New York's Ellis Island ; his father was killed in France , and his mother passed away during the voyage . United States immigration officials want to take him back , but young Coogan thwarts fate by slipping through with a family of eight . With no place to go ( but with cuteness to spare ) , Coogan tags along with grumpy old man Claude Gillingwater ( as Bill Hicks , " The Captain " ) . Desperate for lodgings , Coogan seeks to make himself useful to crusty Gillingwater ; and , his growing fondness for the boy makes increasingly difficult for Gillingwater to throw Coogan out . Coogan's late 1921 follow-up to earlier-in-the-year hits " The Kid " and " Peck's Bad Boy " owes much to the former ( Charlie Chaplin ) film . Still , " My Boy " does rate very highly on its own . First of all , Coogan is , by now , obviously a remarkable young actor . Suspicions about the five-year-old's performances owing everything to " Kid's " Chaplin and " Peck's " Sam Wood are laid firmly to rest . Coogan proves himself , herein directed by Victor Heerman and Albert Austin , an actor to be reckoned with . Coogan's characterization is incredibly natural , under the circumstances . He steers clear of the tendency to become mawkishly cloying - - the road , unfortunately , taken by many a " child star " . At this point in his career , the credit must be given to Coogan's camp ( perhaps , the boy and his father ) . " My Boy " solidified Coogan as a box office super-star . Gillingwater and Mathilde Brundage ( as Mrs . J . Montague Blair , " The Grandmother " ) provide fine support . There are ( at least ) two absolutely indispensable film sequences to watch for , in " My Boy " : The first is when Coogan gives himself a bath and shower ; his performance is wonderful . The second is when Coogan runs away from a party , after being accused of stealing a lady's purse ; the resulting cinematic poetry might have left Chaplin feeling envious . Coogan dancing to an organ-grinder's beat is almost as indelible . " My Boy " features one of the most endearing child performers in one of his best roles . My Boy ( 1921 ) Victor Heerman , Albert Austin - Jackie Coogan , Claude Gillingwater , Mathilde Brundage
Keanu Reeves in Wonderland	Insomniac computer hacker Keanu Reeves ( as Thomas " Neo " Anderson ) lives a common and interesting life . Hugo Weaving ( as Agent Smith ) tells him , " You've been living two lives . In one life , you're Thomas A . Anderson , program writer for a respectable software company . You have a social security number , pay your taxes , and you help your landlady carry out her garbage . The other life is lived in computers , where you go by the hacker alias ' Neo ' and are guilty of virtually every computer crime we have a law for . One of these lives has a future , and one of them does not . " That's a good description . Everything changes for Mr . Reeves when he is contacted by the intriguingly prophetic Laurence Fishburne ( as Morpheus ) , through seemingly supernatural leather lass Carrie-Anne Moss ( as Trinity ) . Mr . Fishburne believes Reeves just may be " The One " . Mr . Weaving captures Reeves , and tells him Fishburne is the most dangerous man alive . Reeves instinctively distrusts Weaving and , with Ms . Moss ' assistance escapes from him . Them , Reeves joins falls Through the Looking Glass , where he learns about and dreams , reality , and imagination , from the Wachowski brothers . " Unfortunately , nobody can be told what ' The Matrix ' is . You have to see it for yourself . " I watched it with great curiosity to see what would happen next . . . A stunning audio-visual achievement . The Matrix ( 1999 ) Larry & Andy Wachowski - Keanu Reeves , Laurence Fishburne , Carrie-Anne Moss , Hugo Weaving
The Little Prince and The Fox	Not the life story of James Dean , but the story of Mr . Dean and writer William Bast . This is , in fact , their ( partially veiled ) love story . Mr . Bast was Dean's " best friend " , " roommate " , and / or " confidant " for the last five years of his life . James Dean and William Bast . Were they " just good friends " for five years ? Not exactly . Bast wrote , and co-produced ; and Robert Butler directed . The production is surprisingly high quality , considering the fact that this was a 1976 " TV movie " . Frank Stanley's photography excels . It could have been a feature film . Perhaps , Bast preferred the guaranteed television audience , as a feature hinting at his sexual relationship with Dean would have been poorly received in most movie houses . Michael Brandon ( as Bast ) and Stephen McHattie ( as Dean ) are very convincing , as the young friends . It's sometimes a little difficult to determine if the " The Little Prince and The Fox " knew what they were playing with fire ; however , it seems obvious that director Butler had figured out Bast's direction . At first , it seems as if the duo's numerous lovely girlfriends are all Pier Angelis ( red herrings ) ; actually , they are realistic , and help explain the complicated Dean / Bast relationship . The female supporting cast is pretty ( and ) numerous ; Candy Clark ( as Christine White ) is one stand-out , believability-wise ; note , the real-life Ms . White appears in a small role . Watch out for a very tender " barroom " scene with Leland Palmer ( as Arlene ) , a disabled woman Dean takes for a ride . Reality sets you free . " James Dean " should have been nominated for several " Emmy " awards , especially considering the Brandon and McHattie lead performances , and the TV movie's relative production values . The film could be criticized for " holding back " ; but , it could also be praised for being able to make its points without being explicit . Emotionally , at least , " James Dean " is clear ; discerning what's left out isn't too difficult . James Dean ( / 76 ) William Bast - Michael Brandon , Stephen McHattie , Candy Clark , Leland Palmer
Natalie Wood Makes Good	This starts out being an extraordinary drama , and ends up being an excellent romantic comedy . Both are done well , although " Love with the Proper Stranger " might have been better off sticking to the dramatics . Natalie Wood ( as Angie Rossini ) and Steve McQueen ( as Rocky Papasano ) are an infectious team . As the film opens Ms . Wood is tracking Mr . McQueen down , to ask for help in obtaining an abortion . McQueen seems to have forgotten the dalliance with Wood ( blame it on the scotch ) . Watch for a brief moment when McQueen looks Wood up and down , in their first on-screen scene ; this is , perhaps , when McQueen recalls her , and the point at which he begins to " fall in love " with her character ( as the sexual attraction had already reached culmination ) . McQueen's realization is long and confused ; but , Wood visibly " falls in love " with McQueen while watching him interact with his parents . In this case , disposing with the initial sexual attraction has made the characters ' " romance " more interesting . This is difficult to play so convincingly ; and , the lead performances , along with the direction of Robert Mulligan , are award-worthy . The dramatic highlight will be obvious ; the comic highlight is the scene with Wood having dinner with Tom Bosley ( as Anthony Columbo ) ' s family . This scene works so well because it both parallels and contrasts Wood's earlier meeting with McQueen's family ( when she fell in love with him ) . Mr . Bosley heads up a strong supporting cast . Arnold Schulman's script , and the Milton R . Krasner photography , are also outstanding . The unworthy last act is disappointing , but not damning . Love with the Proper Stranger ( 1963 ) Robert Mulligan - Natalie Wood , Steve McQueen , Tom Bosley , Edie Adams
On Ryan's Express	Looking at the IMDb " Awards " link will reveal this outstanding Anthony Mann western was nominated for a single " Academy Award " , for the " Story and Screenplay " by Sam Rolfe and Harold Jack Bloom . The story ( and much about the film ) is excellent . Certainly , the writers deserved recognition for the intriguing story , and complex characters . But , to see " The Naked Spur " was NOT nominated for " Best Color Cinematography " is shocking . William Mellor's photography is truly superior . Perhaps , they felt one nomination was enough for a movie about greed . James Stewart ( as Howard Kemp ) , Janet Leigh ( as Lina Patch ) , Robert Ryan ( as Ben Vandergroat ) , Ralph Meeker ( as Roy Anderson ) , and Millard Mitchell ( as Jesse Tate ) are an outstanding Colorado quintet . With Mann and Mellor directing , the small cast appears sprawling . Of the five , Mr . Ryan's intensely malevolent " Ben " reigns supreme ; it's difficult to envision " The Naked Spur " without Ryan's psychological thorn throwing . Recipient Stewart is also at his best . The other three are great ; though , more should have been to done develop and / or explain the relationship . Leigh had / has with Ryan and Stewart ; she is underused . That , and a couple of continuity and / or editing problems may distract , slightly . We shouldn't be to be too greedy about great movies , after all . The Naked Spur ( 1953 ) Anthony Mann - James Stewart , Robert Ryan , Janet Leigh , Ralph Meeker
Marie Dressler Is Beautiful	Hefty housekeeper Marie Dressler ( as Emma ) becomes the surrogate mother to a wealthy Long Island family , after their mother dies , giving birth to Richard Cromwell ( as Ronnie ) . While helping her prepare for a well-deserved Niagara Falls vacation , family father Jean Hersholt ( as Smith ) startles Ms . Dressler by proposing marriage ; and , the trip becomes a honeymoon . Back home , only Mr . Cromwell , Dressler's favorite " son " , celebrates the marriage . The three other Smith children ( George Meeker , Myrna Loy , and Barbara Kent ) are furious ; they feel the ailing Mr . Hersholt married a mere " servant " , who will steal the family fortune . This is Marie Dressler at her sentimental best ; assisted by an apt MGM team , including Clarence Brown ( director ) , Oliver Marsh ( photographer ) , and Frances Marion ( writer ) . Dressler won a " Best Actress " Academy Award " for a previous effort , " Min and Bill " ( 1930 ) ; however , her " Emma " is a stronger characterization . This more deserved " Best Actress " nomination became the Academy Awards ' # 2 choice for the eligibility period ; in the voting , Dressler was just behind winner Helen Hayes ( in " The Sin of Madelon Claudet " ) . Dressler should have won for " Emma " , rather than " Min and Bill " . Richard Cromwell and Jean Hersholt might have been nominated as " Best Supporting Actors " ; but , the category was not introduced until 1936 ( Dressler would have likely won the award , in this category , for " Anna Christie " ) . Parts of " Emma " have not aged well , especially some of the early , yet important , scenes . But , its strengths make up for these weaknesses . Watch for the scene in which Dressler throws her ungrateful step-children out of the house . This is followed by a scene with Dressler being " haunted " by the " ghosts " of the little Smith children ; it's an extraordinarily touching " special effect " . And , it all works so well due to Dressler . Dressler is unfairly called a " scene stealer " ; most of the time , she was just very good . If you were good , you kept up with her . With material to work with , Dressler's co-stars are just as memorable . Note , how , in lesser roles , Cromwell and Hersholt compliment Dressler's " Emma " perfectly . Both Hersholt and Dressler play his " death scene " beautifully . And , Cromwell's one-word description of " Emma " is the film's most lingering . You won't forget it . Emma ( 1932 ) Clarence Brown - Marie Dressler , Richard Cromwell , Jean Hersholt , Myrna Loy
Lon Chaney Gets Two Thumbs Up	Lon Chaney ( as Alonzo the Armless ) is a criminal posing as an armless circus knife-wielder ; he amazes by throwing knives with his feet , notably at assistant Joan Crawford ( as Nanon Zanzi ) . Actually , Mr . Chaney's arms are tightly girdled to his chest ; he suffers from an obvious deformity , which would identify him to authorities - - he has two thumbs on his left hand . Evidently a victim of sex abuse , Ms . Crawford has an unusual fear of arms ; so , she rejects the advances of circus strongman Norman Kerry ( as Malabar the Mighty ) . Instead , she warms up to the armless Chaney . He mistakes Crawford's affection for love , and decides to make himself her ideal , by amputating his arms ! While Chaney recuperates , Crawford overcomes her fear , and begins to enjoy Mr . Kerry's muscular arms . When he returns , Chaney is understandably upset ? Chaney and director Tod Browning are superb in this disturbing , horrific drama . Browning builds great suspense in the wonderful ending , wherein he winds up disturbing images in your mind , and teasingly leaves them on the verge of exploding - - as usual , the horror unseen is the most unsettling . Crawford excels in one of her best early roles ; she plays falling in love with Kerry exceptionally well . Of course , no one can match Chaney ; though great throughout , his scene realizing Crawford never truly loved him is emotionally wrenching . Great character actor John George ( as Cojo ) has a fine role as Chaney's helper - - the scene where he first unwraps the girdled " Alonzo " should have your eyes glued to the screen . There appear to be some portions of " The Unknown " missing , but the amputation of footage hasn't spoiled the film . The Unknown ( 1927 ) Tod Browning - Lon Chaney , Joan Crawford , Norman Kerry , John George
Sunrise , Sunset	Perky aspiring actress Janet Gaynor ( as Esther Blodgett ) leaves her small town for Hollywood ; instead of extra work , she finds work as a waitress . Ms . Gaynor breaks dishes ; imitates Greta Garbo , Katharine Hepburn , and Mae West ; and meets alcoholic actor Fredric March ( as Norman Maine ) . Mr . March likes Gaynor's sweetness and sincerity ; he arranges a screen test for her , and the two become romantically involved . Then , Gaynor becomes Hollywood's newest star sensation ( as " Vicki Lester " ) while March ( as " Mr . Lester " ) ' s star sets . David O . Selznick's version of " What Price Hollywood ? " ( among others ) is beautifully photographed ( W . Howard Greene ) and directed ( William A . Wellman ) ; especially noteworthy are the location scenes , with its near-final " sunset " providing an excellent thematic statement . Few of Gaynor's contemporaries could have played the early scenes with the same sincerity ( which parallels her character ) . She is terrific as the naïve young star ; most importantly , she is believable as a woman who steps from obscurity to stardom . March is perfect as the eclipsed movie idol ; it would have been nice to know more about his character's history of , and reason for , drinking ( amusement is a given reason ) . Lionel Stander ( as Matt Libby ) ' s portrayal of a prickly publicist stands out , among the supporting cast ( Adolphe Menjou , May Robson , and Andy Devine ) . This film was heralded as realistic depiction of " Hollywood " stardom ; and , there are cute , clever , and realistic details throughout . Nothing too extraordinary is revealed , however . The film barely scratches the surface ; and , it is curiously more asexual than previous cinematic trips down the walk of fame ( it was affected by the " Hays Code " , no doubt ) . Still , due to its strengths , this version of " A Star Is Born " compares most favorably with subsequent versions . A Star Is Born ( 1937 ) William A . Wellman - Janet Gaynor , Fredric March , Lionel Stander , Adolphe Menjou
Reckless Endangerment	The script explains " Sleepers " as , " the street name for anyone who spent time in a juvenile facility . " This portends young children are physically abused in " reform schools " , leading to permanent psychological problems throughout life . So , " Sleepers " are physically and sexually abused young children . Those afflicted , herein at the " Wilkinson Home for Boys " , are four childhood friends , from New York's " Hell's Kitchen " : Joe Perrino and Jason Patric ( as Lorenzo " Shakes " Carcaterra ) , Brad Renfro and Brad Pitt ( as Michael Sullivan ) , Jonathan Tucker and Billy Crudup ( as Thomas Marcano ) , and Geoffrey Wigdor and Ron Eldard ( as John Reilly ) . The eight actors are well-cast ; and , their work is extraordinary . Mr . Perrino essays , arguably , the octet's greatest performance ; the film is centered around his stinging , sensitive characterization . Unfortunately , the story unravels , during the second half of the film . A serious topic is bowdlerized by an increasingly implausible set of circumstances . Without giving anything away ( after all , this is still a great film ) , note that social worker Minnie Driver ( as Carol Martinez ) sums up the film's ideological shortcomings with the line , " What is this , a gay bar ? " The line , and the actors ' lack of traumatized reaction , helps separate being " gay " from the sadistic homosexual pedophile portrayed by Kevin Bacon ( as Sean Nokes ) . For the clearest delineation of the " Sean Nokes " character , note Mr . Bacon's eyes as he watches Perrino undress . The subtle " homophobia " , and " immoral " act committed by the killers ' Priest ( and " friend " ) Robert De Niro ( as Father Bobby ) , will unsettle many viewers . Still , director Barry Levinson , and novelist Lorenzo Carcaterra , should be commended for shining light on topics too often regulated to the dark . The single " Academy Award " nomination , for John Williams ' always excellent music , is shocking . The film contains at least five performances worthy of a " Best Supporting Actor " Oscar ; perhaps , with so many in contention , it was easier to simply move on . In addition to those mentioned above , you have alcoholic lawyer Dustin Hoffman ( as Danny Snyder ) , kindly mobster Vittorio Gassman ( as King Benny ) , and Terry Kinney ( as Ralph Ferguson ) . Mr . Kinney's witness stand meltdown is most amazing . Stu Linder's editing , Timothy Galvin's art direction , and Beth Rubino's set direction are also award worthy . It's hard to believe five films topped the Gavin / Rubino work on " Sleepers " . Set in the late 1960s , the first part of " Sleepers " ( forgiving the fact that the lads would not have been listening to Donovan's " Hurdy Gurdy Man " in 1967 ) is a fantastic film : Sleepers ( 1996 ) Barry Levinson - Joseph Perrino , Brad Renfro , Jonathan Tucker , Geoffrey Wigdor Set in the early 1980s , the second part falters in storyline ; but , it's still an excellent movie : Sleepers ( 1996 ) Barry Levinson - Jason Patric , Brad Pitt , Robert De Niro , Dustin HoffmanAveraging out to a still well above average : Sleepers ( 1996 ) Barry Levinson - Joseph Perrino , Jason Patric , Kevin Bacon , Brad Pitt
Silence Is Golden for F . W . Murnau and Charles Farrell	Minnesota country boy Charles Farrell ( as Lem ) goes to Chicago , to sell the family's wheat harvest . In the hectic city , he meets pretty coffee shop waitress Mary Duncan ( as Kate ) , who longs for the simple life . The attractive pair fall blissfully in love . After marrying Ms . Duncan , Mr . Farrell takes her home to live with his country family . But , father David Torrence ( as Tustine ) distrusts the " City Girl " , and is angry with his son for selling his wheat at an inferior price . A stern patriarch , Mr . Torrence drives a wedge between the happy couple . To make matters worse , Duncan becomes prey for some arriving reapers ? This is another stunner from director F . W . Murnau ( " Sunrise " ) , who would so tragically die in a car accident ( after only one more film ) . " City Girl " was produced by Mr . Murnau as a " silent " ( " Our Daily Bread " ) ; but , Fox Films recalled the movie , and turned it into a " talkie " . At the time , Farrell's name was rising to the upper reaches of " Box Office " star lists , but , truth be told , only Charlie Chaplin and Greta Garbo still had the power to draw audiences to a silent movie ( and , even that was fading ) . With re-shoots , a partially talking " City Girl " was seen briefly , and forgotten . The unearthed full length silent version was , thankfully , preserved . It is a near-perfect film . Farrell , who many felt deserves some " Best Actor " recognition fro his role in " 7th Heaven " , outdoes himself . Murnau , photographer Ernest Palmer , set director Harry Oliver are also award-worthy . Although she looks too startlingly glamorous in the country portions , Duncan is hot in the city . No wonder leering Richard Alexander ( as Mac ) couldn't keep his hands off her . The entire cast performs splendidly , right down to David Rollins giving Duncan lift at work . Sequences to re-play ( if not the whole movie ) : Farrell walking the crowded city streets , Duncan in her apartment ( where she blows the city dust off her suffocating plant ) , the couple's ecstatic run through his father's wheat fields , the arrival of grinning Guinn Williams and the reapers , and their harvesting scenes . Murnau's direction of the horse-driven wagons is especially spectacular . The lighting is brilliant throughout . City Girl ( / 30 ) F . W . Murnau - Charles Farrell , Mary Duncan , David Torrence , Richard Alexander
What Happens When We Run Out	" A group of research scientists based at an Idaho facility discovers a means to travel forward in time , whilst remaining at the same locale . When one of the group's trips reveals a bleak future for the human race , the government steps in to shut down their research . The researchers decide to travel forward in time to find the cause of the horrible accident that apparently will ruin the ecology and threaten the very existence of man , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Actually , the research scientists send young people to the future , to study the discovered ecological crisis ; and , the young men and women contemplate starting a futuristic civilization there . Watch for the lead actress Kelly Bohanan ( as Karen ) visit the dentist early in the running time ; she emerges as the film's main character . Without her metallic dental braces , Ms . Bohanan is able to join sister Caroline Hildebrand ( as Isa ) in time traveling exploration . Ms . Hildebrand and sister Bohanan nonchalantly take off their pants for the camera ; because , anything with metal ( like zippers or buttons ) must be put in the " Material Projection Department " for time travel . The women are very attractive , but nothing is gratuitous . The first scene with Hildebrand explains the rules of time travel to Bohanan is where the film first grabs you . It is absolutely ludicrous : two hippie-type women explaining time trip rules , in their underwear ; but , it is also absolutely believable . " Idaho Transfer " succeeds , at this " guidelines for travel " moment , because you are ( or should be ) putting your trust in the young travelers . It's obviously going to be a very unusual movie . Most of the characters ' dialogue helps explain events ; still , it's not always clear what is happening , or where . And , yet , the movie is never dishonest . Director Peter Fonda and writer Thomas Matthiesen create a very captivating , thought-provoking world , with its own rules . Mr . Fonda should consider directing more often ; and , with the so often neglected type of performances from this cast . Kevin Hearst ( as Ronald ) emerges as Bohanan's " leading man " ; and , Keith Carradine is most notable among the other players . Although Fonda undoubtedly guided them , it's surprising so few in the cast achieved later fame , especially Bohanan . The character " Karen " is where you will find the real story ; it's in her almost constant longing for a child . Bohanan's face , and Fonda's camera , capture the desire frequently . And , of course , it is not an easy prospect . " Ronald " may be homosexual and / or asexual , along with others . Although it is discussed , you won't see sex . The desire for children symbolizes hope for the future , which may not be likely , in this world . Instead , industry eats up , and ruins things , like the derelict car " Karen " and " Ronald " find . And , literally , the train Mr . Hearst discovers has " eaten " its skeletal passengers . The ending is a perfect culmination of events . The ecological and environmental issues addressed in " Idaho Transfer " were certainly ahead of the curve . Idaho Transfer ( 1973 ) Peter Fonda - Kelly Bohanan , Kevin Hearst , Keith Carradine , Caroline Hildebrand
A Boy and His Dog	Lassie makes a remarkable screen debut . Under the guidance of trainer Rudd Weatherwax , the dog will become one of the most popular and enduring animal " stars " ever . It's easy to see why , in " Lassie Come Home " . The collie , and its descendants , performed this basic role for some decades to come . When the story begins , Lassie must be sold , by the poor Carracloughs : father Donald Crisp , mother Elsa Lancaster , and their boy Roddy McDowall . Mr . Crisp loses his job , and can't afford to keep the pet . Though Lassie is sold , his real emotional " owner " is the boy Joe , played by Mr . McDowall . McDowall's performance is great , and the others are no less than competent . The MGM color cinematography is gorgeous , and the story understandably sentimental . Interestingly , Elizabeth Taylor appears in her second film role ; she will become Lassie's owner for the third series film , " Courage of Lassie " ( 1946 ) . If " Lassie , Come Home " doesn't raise some emotion in you , may not be human . Lassie Come Home ( 1943 ) Fred M . Wilcox - Roddy McDowall , Donald Crisp , Elizabeth Taylor , May Witty
Unmasking Lon Chaney's Phantom of the Opera	A Paris opera house is seemingly haunted by a " Phantom " ; he ( who is Lon Chaney ) guides beautiful singer Christine Daaeto ( Mary Philbin ) to fame , from his hidden lair , in the bowels of the opera palace . After knocking off some competition , Mr . Chaney puts opera star Philbin in a hypnotic state , and takes her to his underground domain ( five cellars down ) ; there , Philbin comes to her senses , and seems terrified . Chaney professes his undying love , but Philbin wants none of it ; she is engaged to Norman Kerry ( as Raoul ) . " The Phantom of the Opera " does not start off very well - - there are some dance sequences , followed by a man with a disembodied head , who pops through floors . Events do not seem to be fully explained . Mainly , try to accept the hypnotic " hold " Chaney has over Philbin , and stick with the story as he takes her down to his underground chambers . " Feast your eyes - - glut your soul , on my accursed ugliness ! " The scene where Chaney's Phantom gets unmasked is extraordinary . Then , the " Bal Masque de l'Opera " occurs , in early color ; it looks very good , and Chaney attends . Watch for the fallen chandelier to appear amazingly repaired , and reattached , for a later Philbin solo ! The scenes with Chaney are worth waiting for ; the ending exciting , and the sets magnificent . The Phantom of the Opera ( 1925 ) Rupert Julian - Lon Chaney , Mary Philbin , Norman Kerry , Arthur Carewe
Vernon and Swanson Make a Keystone Klassic	Bobby Vernon ( as Robert Knight ) is a fickle-hearted youth . His girlfriend Gloria Swanson ( as Gloria Dawn ) lives down the hall with her dog Teddy ( a Great Dane ) . Ms . Swanson's guardian is rascally Wallace Berry ( as Henry Black ) ; he is also in charge of Mr . Vernon's estate , which he is stealing from . In order to protect , and enhance , his stolen wealth , Mr . Berry plots with buxom sister May Emory - - the two agree Ms . Emory will lure the unsuspecting Vernon into marriage . Vernon excels in this film ; particularly , watch his performance when proposing to Emory - - his expressions , and word-perfect reading , make him easily understood . It's a great scene . Vernon's dance at the hotel ( again , with Emory ) is another highlight . Swanson and Berry ( who married in real life ) are terrific , as well . The production is first rate , including a beautifully photographed storm , and an exciting comic climax . Hang on as Vernon and Teddy take a bicycle to rescue Swanson from an approaching train ! Teddy at the Throttle ( 1917 ) Clarence G . Badger - Bobby Vernon , Gloria Swanson , Wallace Berry , May Emory
Down in the Sewer	He Walked by Night ( 1948 ) Alfred Werker , Anthony Mann - Richard Basehart , Scott Brady , Roy RobertsBurglar Richard Basehart ( as Roy Morgan ) is attempting to rob a radio shop , when he is interrupted by off-duty policeman John McGuire ( as Robert Rawlins ) , who just happens to be driving by , on his way home . When the suspicious officer asks to see some identification , Mr . Basehart shows him the barrel his gun . Soon , cop-killer Basehart is being perused by Scott Brady ( as Marty Brennan ) and the Los Angeles Police Department . Basehart proves himself to be a quite resourceful ; notably ; he uses the city's sewers as an escape route ? With masterful use of light and shadows , from cinematographer John Alton , " He Walked by Night " is one of the most visually striking films of the 1940s . Basehart's psychotic star performance is also award-worthy ; especially , after witnessing his character operate on himself , in close-up , to remove a bullet . The supporting cast is a treasure trove , among them : Roy Roberts as the determined police captain , Dorothy Adams as the loony lady on Brady's milk run , Whit Bissell as Basehart's bookish friend , Billy Mauch as the mugging head of a teen gang , and Jack Webb learning how to make " Dragnet " a west coast version of " The Naked City " . And , that's not all ; read the extended cast list on IMDb before watching , so you don't miss anyone !
Last Tango in Paris	Europe is " a world old in hatred and bloodshed , where nation is crowded against nation and creed against creed , centuries of war have sown their bitter seed , and the fires of resentment smoldering beneath the crust of civilization but await the breaking of the Seven Seals of Prophecy to start a mighty conflagration . " But , in the Americas , " boundless space offers a haven to the alien , and ancient hatreds are forgotten . " In the " New World " , Pomeroy Cannon ( as Madariaga ) and his family thrive . Mr . Cannon's eldest daughter Bridgetta Clark ( as Luisa ) marries German Alan Hale ( as Karl von Hartrott ) , and they have three sons . Youngest daughter Mabel Van Buren ( as Elena ) marries French Josef Swickard ( as Marcelo Desnoyers ) , and they sire son Rudolph Valentino ( as Julio Desnoyers ) and daughter Virginia Warwick ( as Chichi ) . From the preceding family of characters , you should pay relatively close attention to Mr . Valentino's " Julio " and Mr . Swickard's " Desnoyers " , who emerge as two of the drama's three leading players ; they are patriarch Cannon's favorite grandson and son , respectively . When the old man dies , the sisters ' families move back to their husbands ' home countries of Germany and France . Valentino studies art , thrills the French with his " Argentine Tango " , and begins an affair with married woman Alice Terry ( as Marguerite Laurier ) . Ms . Terry , wife of director Rex Ingram , is the third player of prominence . Several supporting players stand out ; perhaps none more than two men Valentino becomes acquainted with , in France : servile companion Bowditch M . Turner ( as Argensola ) and mysterious " man upstairs " ( hint , hint ! ) Nigel de Brulier ( as Tchernoff ) . Eventually , events culminate into " The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse " fulfilling its promise ; it becomes a story of The Great War ( aka World War I ) . Ibáñez ( and adapter June Mathis ) ' " Four Horsemen " are : Conquest , War , Pestilence , and Death . The war scenes are exciting . In a great crosscutting sequence , Valentino throws Mr . Turner out of the apartment , so he can " entertain " Terry . Due to a downpour , Turner goes upstairs to visit with mysterious Mr . de Brulier , who cuts into the forbidden fruit of an apple , while Valentino ( off screen ) similarly removes Terry's " beautiful covering " and " cloak of virtue . " No sexual relations are shown , but director Ingram clearly makes his point . And , all of this occurs as the Great War erupts . The film's overall thesis is unsteady , at times ; and , there are little things ( like animals ) to distract - - does nurse Terry's husband fail to recognize her voice ? Award-worthy Valentino and Terry speak French in France , by the way - - regardé , for example , " Oui " for " Yes " . " The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse " is a triumph for Mr . Ingram , photographer John F . Seitzand , and company . Despite some flaws , it's an indispensable film . The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse ( 1921 ) Rex Ingram - Rudolph Valentino , Alice Terry , Josef Swickard , Alan Hale
Flagon with a Dragon	" The Court Jester " is an obvious film - - it's witty , colorful , and adventurous . It not only works as fine example of the Medieval era film , but is also a spoof of the genre . Norman Panama and Melvin Frank wrote , produced , and directed ; with brilliant style , and cohesiveness . Danny Kaye fits the title role like a glove ; and , additional archetypal characterizations are highlighted by Basil Rathbone ( as Sir Ravenhurst ) and Mildred Natwick ( as Griselda ) . The latter provides Mr . Kaye with the unforgettable advice , " The pellet with the poison's in the flagon with the dragon ; the vessel with the pestle has the brew that is true . " Just remember that .
A Victory for Truffaut	An absolutely enthralling film , based on the true story of a real-life boy " Tarzan " . Discovered in a French Aveyron forest , in the late 1700s , " The Wild Child " was considered to be a deaf and dumb savage . But , young doctor Jean Itard ( played by director Francois Truffaut ) believes he can " civilize " the child . With tentative permission from the child's guardian " Institute for the Deaf and Dumb " , Dr . Itard takes the savage boy into his home . Itard becomes the child's teacher and , ultimately , surrogate parent . Housekeeper Françoise Seigner adds some expert motherly affection . Itard symbolically names the boy " Victor " due to his preference for the ending " O " sound . Director / writer / co-star Truffaut's " L ' Infant sauvage " is a minor masterpiece . It's beautifully photographed ( by Nestor Almendros ) , thought-provoking , and emotionally captivating . The ending events are , in fact , an emotional roller-coaster . Truffaut elicits a tremendous performance from Jean-Pierre Cargol as the savage young Victor . A great film for parents , teachers , and children ( which means , of course , everyone ) . L ' Infant sauvage ( 1970 ) François Truffaut - Jean-Pierre Cargol , François Truffaut , Françoise Seigner , Jean Dasté
Mr . Robinson , Are You Trying to Seduce Me ?	Possibly , this is a story about moving on from a friendship , potentially sexual , which is going nowhere , due to the inability of one of the friends to overcome addiction , and function in an unwelcome world . So , " Withnail & I " is a little too vague its dramatic intentions ; but , the obliqueness does wind up mirroring Withnail's character . It gives the film a ( perhaps unintentional ) eerie quality ; it's as difficult to completely grasp what's going on beneath the surface as it is for " Withnail & I " to figure out how to exist in reality . The " Hamlet " ending is great ; but , before that , some final sequences seem abrupt . Parting is such sweet sorrow . The film's comedic worth is considerable ; it's extremely witty . Bleary-eyed Richard E . Grant ( as " Withnail " ) and bright-eyed Paul McGann ( as " I " ) create exceptional , memorable characterizations . Richard Griffiths ( as " Monty " ) manages to play the " gay joke " without becoming too offensive ; saved , again , by an exceptional script . Ironically , director / writer Bruce Robinson delivers to die for roles to two actors playing desperately unemployed actors . Mr . Robinson's script is superb - - and ; it's one reason you should plan to watch this film twice . Withnail & I ( 1987 ) Bruce Robinson - Richard E . Grant , Paul McGann , Richard Griffiths , Ralph Brown
You Must Visit " 13 West Street "	I was very surprised with " 13 West Street " . I found it both believable , and well-performed . It's amazing to see Alan Ladd's character correctly identify his as a " hate " crime . The way the director makes us ( and the characters ) think all teenagers are members of the five who attacked Mr . Ladd was nicely done . The successful older man coming to terms , perhaps , with his increasing vulnerability is a great film subject . Ladd seems to understand this , and it becomes part of his performance . His physicality ( whatever real health concerns he is having ) is successfully incorporated into his performance . Ladd's younger " trophy " wife really cares for him , and is unsure how to handle the unfolding events . Rod Steiger is great as the police detective assigned to the case - - watch how he turns over the newspaper when he confront the bartender . There are a lot of nice little touches like that - - from the director and / or performers ? watch all their little mannerisms ; they all fit the characters , and add to the believability . There are more unexpected , and riveting , events . Are they implausible ? In a 1962 film , perhaps they seemed so , but the decade ended with crimes and criminals significantly more " implausible " . Accepting the situation is believable , there are some flaws which keep this from being a perfect film . I would have preferred " Chuck " to be a Charles Manson-type psycho , and could have done without the " Teenage Terror " angle . There are also some necessary " budget " restrictions . They made the absolute most out of the budget they had , though . Highly recommended ! 13 West Street ( 1962 ) Philip Leacock - Alan Ladd , Rod Steiger , Michael Callan , Dolores Dorn
Steppin ' Out with Fred Astaire , Judy Garland , and Ann Miller	Fred Astaire has an argument with his dancing partner and girlfriend , Ann Miller . Mr . Astaire believes he's the whole act , and Ms . Miller can be easily replaced . Astaire randomly picks Judy Garland to replace Miller . Peter Lawford is around to make the threesome a foursome , when necessary . Believe it or not , Ms . Garland turns out to be a great star , and becomes romantically interested in her mentor . . . This is really a collection of instant classics , strung together in a silly story . However , the performances are so indispensable , the story hardly matters . Among the terrific : " Drum Crazy " , " Shakin ' the Blues Away " , " Steppin ' Out with My Baby " , " A Couple of Swells " , and " Easter Parade " . That's entertainment . Easter Parade ( 1948 ) Charles Walters - Fred Astaire , Judy Garland , Ann Miller , Peter Lawford
Swan Songs	Patient , kind Lillian Gish ( as Sarah Webber ) and contrary , cantankerous Bette Davis ( as Libby Strong ) are two aging sisters ; who spend what is likely to be their last summer together , arguing about their limited future . Ms . Gish wants to have a " picture window " built for the house ; but , the blind Ms . Davis thinks not . Gish awaits the annual appearance of " The Whales of August " , and Davis reminisces , instead , about " The Swans " . Nothing overtly extraordinary happens . There are no picture windows , whales , or swans . Beneath the surface , Gish is a romantic dreamer , and Davis is sad and wise . These qualities , and the sisters ' love for each other , are demonstrated by the actress ' remarkably delicate performances , David Berry's subtle script , and Lindsay Anderson's steady direction . Vincent Price , Ann Sothern , and Harry Carey Jr . are a great supporting cast . Gish's name was a curious omission from the " Academy Award " list of nominations ; the " National Board " hedged its bets with a special lifetime achievement award ; but , Gish won their " Best Actress " award anyway . Davis ' performance was also award worthy . You may ache for the film to be technically better , or more " dramatic " ; but , you will never again see the constellation of stars within . The Whales of August ( 1987 ) Lindsay Anderson - Lillian Gish , Bette Davis , Vincent Price , Ann Sothern
Robert Harron's Last Hurrah	In the valley of Silver Waters , a peddler family has parked their wagon . " Little Nellie " ventures out into the woods , and unexpectedly witnesses a horrific crime - Martin Cain and his wife ( George Nichols and Josephine Crowell ) are raging against a poor immigrant woman they have obviously employed ; and , they inadvertently kill the woman . The violent act becomes a repressed memory for little Nellie . Ten years later , Lillian Gish ( as the grown up Nellie Jarvis ) is , once again , traveling through Silver Waters , with her ailing , widowed mother . After her mother dies ( " A life flowing out to mysterious uncharted seas . " ) , Ms . Gish meets Robert Harron ( as Jimmie Hilton ) , who lives nearby , with his poverty-stricken family . Mr . Harron's family helps Gish bury her mother ; and , with nowhere to go , she accepts their invitation to stay ? Harron is attracted to Gish ; and , they become inseparable . Harron's father George Fawcett ( as Robert Hilton ) is unable to work , due to disability . Precognizant mother Eugenie Besserer ( as Mrs . Hilton ) sees her favorite son Ralph Graves ( as John Hilton ) off to war , believing she will never see him again . To help out her financially strapped surrogate family , Gish seeks employment with Mr . and Mrs . Cain ; the memory of their evil deed is still repressed . Harron kisses Gish goodbye ; then , she moves in with the wicked Cains ? " The Greatest Question " is most notable as Robert Harron's last film ; he died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound on September 5 , 1920 . When Harron died ( " A life flowing out to mysterious uncharted seas . " ) , this film was still being widely exhibited . And , it's a representative role - the " boy next door " he played so well for director D . W . Griffith . Harron is charming and natural , in the role of Jimmie Hilton . His reflective look at Gish's departure , from behind his fence , is just what Gish was longing for in " True Heart Susie " ( 1919 ) . Robert Harron was one of the finest actor of his time ; his record of performances , and acting style , portended a great career in the coming decades . In hindsight , he looks like one of the few silent performers certain to make a natural transition to sound film performances . At the time of his death , Harron had signed with Metro , where he worked on an unavailable film . There seems to be some controversy about whether or not Harron committed suicide ; if so , it could not have been due to an ongoing rivalry with actor Richard Barthelmess , over roles offered by director D . W . Griffith . By the time Harron died , both actors had left Griffith's company ; and , they remained friendly enough to attend the New York première of " Way Down East " ( 1920 ) . Ironically , " The Greatest Question " is about death ; and , Harron had a relatively unknown friend in New York , at that time , to attend the same " Way Down East " premiere - the soon famous , and also short-lived , Rudolph Valentino . The Greatest Question ( / 19 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Robert Harron , Ralph Graves , Eugenie Besserer
Mr . and Mrs . Dodsworth at Odds	Walter Huston ( as Sam Dodsworth ) and Ruth Chatterton ( as his wife , Fran ) are beginning their wedded " golden years " by taking a trip to Europe , as their daughter begins her own marriage . It's fairly obvious , early on , that Mr . Dodsworth loves Mrs . Dodsworth ; and , probably , he feels the European trip will enable the married couple to renew their relationship - - and grow closer , before growing old , together . It is also very clear , early on , that Mrs . Dodsworth is not " on board " ; in fact , her behavior is startlingly selfish and destructive . Mr . Huston and Ms . Chatterton perform very well as the Dodsworths . " Dodsworth " is a film to watch for performances , and they are very effective . Their characterizations are full enough for viewers to get an ever clearer picture of the Dodsworth marriage , as the film progresses . Chatterton , of course , participates in the unraveling , while Huston works for preserving of their marriage . Fran Dodsworth is a complicated part ; and , it is certainly a most unflattering choice of role for an actress in the 1930s - - this is probably a courageous role for Ruth Chatterton to accept , for the time . Of the supporting players , Mary Astor stands out as Mr . Huston's potential " other woman " - - the scene where Chatterton and Ms . Astor meet should not be missed ; watch the two actress ' faces and listen to the tone of their voices , for an extremely well-acted scene . William Wyler expertly directed the drama . Dodsworth ( 1936 ) William Wyler - Walter Huston , Ruth Chatterton , Mary Astor , David Niven
Rage Against the Dying of the Light	Carnival of Souls ( 1962 ) Herk Harvey - Candace Hilligoss , Herk Harvey , Sidney Berger , Frances Feist " A young woman apparently survives a drag race accident that had the car she was in toppling off of a bridge and into the river below . Unfazed by this experience , the woman heads off across country to her new job as a church organist . Experiencing strange things along her trip and also when she arrives at her new home , the woman begins to suspect the accident was not as it appears , " according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis . Actually , Candace Hilligoss ( as Mary Henry ) appears unwashed , and somewhat slightly dazed , after the accident . Ms . Hilligoss is imaginatively guided through the atmospherically startling , but never gruesomely horrifying , " Carnival of Souls " . Herk Harvey's film is a lesson in minimalist poetry . The director and photographer Maurice Prather give each scene a stark , simple beauty . Hilligoss ' first visit to the ghostly pavilion cements the film as divine ; it's one gorgeous shot after another . Some of the supporting players hit a sour note , but sleazy Sidney Berger ( as Mr . Linden ) , and director Harvey ( as Ghoul # 1 ) are just right . A miraculously moody piece .
Once Upon a Midnight Dreary	Henry B . Walthall was , by 1915 , one of the most celebrated actors on the motion picture screen ; when " The Raven " was released , his stock was very high ; and , watching his performance as Edgar Allen Poe illustrates why . Working with Director Charles Brabin , Mr . Walthall literally becomes Poe . In the actor's introduction , a portrait of Poe is replaced a with a close-up of Walthall's characterization . From then on , you believe the actor is Edgar Allen Poe ; judging from Poe's well-known images , there is a convenient resemblance , as well . I may always think of Poe as Walthall . Warda Howard co-stars as the women in Poe's life : Virginia Clemm , Helen Whitman , and their fantasized poetic counterpart ( s ) . Filmmakers decided Ms . Howard would play each of Poe's female interests ; and , it was a wise artistic decision . Howard handles the difficult assignment well ; I especially enjoyed her marvelous expressions as Walthall and his rotund chum Harry Dunkinson ( as Tony ) vie for her affection . On with the motley - - this is a biography of Poe . Considering the usual sanitization of the genre , and the era released ; it's exceptionally well done . Poe is characterized as a romantic writer , with a fondness for drink - - who would have guessed ? The story events seem digested , but accurate . The Poem is referenced , and the ending foreshadowed , with several images during the movie ; a favorite , the caged bird , in background , by a window . Brabin's use of several delirious superimposed visions are disturbingly well done , and effectively compliment the story . The highlight is the ending , when Mr . Walthall acts out Poe's expiration , while a reading of " The Raven " takes place on the title cards . Don't miss the bird ! Walthall had just been seen in the Poe-inspired " The Avenging Conscience " ( 1914 ) , the nightmarish " Ghosts " ( 1915 ) , and the epic " Birth of a Nation " . His Poe credentials stretched way back to Griffith's " The Sealed Room " ( 1909 ) . If Best Actor awards were given in 1915 , Walthall would certainly have one . He is terrific - - and , " The Raven " is a biography like no other . The Raven ( 1915 ) Charles Brabin - Henry B . Walthall , Warda Howard , Harry Dunkinson , Ernest Maupain
A Great Anatomy	The performances in this film are enthralling . Mr . Stewart carries the greatest weight , but everyone is fantastic . Each character has a subtle interest / need , which just captivated me . As the film begins , we see Lawyer Stewart's less-than-perfect dwelling , which includes an unpaid secretary and a drunken law partner . Ms . Remick arrives to seductively request Lawyer Stewart represent her husband , who she says has been jailed for murdering her rapist . Watch how Stewart evaluates her performance . Would you take this case ? I can't say more ! It's difficult to say something ( or , something new ) about a film so great since it has not been seen by every reader here . . . I think it's interesting to consider : each of the characters NEEDS something . . . watch them , as they watch each other , evaluate these needs . Their needs are often selfish . The movie says something about the law , and life . Don't think it's pretty . Director Otto Preminger and this ensemble were never better . Anatomy of a Murder ( 1959 ) Otto Preminger - James Stewart , Lee Remick , Ben Gazzara , Arthur O'Connell
Clint Eastwood as " Frankie " Goes to Hollywood with Swank and Rope Burns	" ' I don't train girls , ' trainer Frankie Dunn growls . But something's different about the spirited boxing hopeful who shows up daily at Dunn's gym . All she wants is a fighting chance . Clint Eastwood plays Dunn and directs , produces and composes music for this acclaimed , multi-award-winning tale of heart , hope and family . Hilary Swank plays resilient Maggie , determined not to abandon her one dream . And Morgan Freeman is Scrap , gym caretaker and counterpoint to Dunn's crustiness . Grab your dreams and come out swinging . ' Million Dollar Baby ' is an absolute knockout . " Clint Eastwood Hits the Nail on the Head . I expected this film to be a " feminist " version of the traditional male-dominated " boxing movie " . It opens with a realistic depiction of the kind of physical damage boxing causes - so , I thought , are they going to show Q-Tips being shoved into the bloody , slit open face of movie star Hillary Swank ? I thought not ? Although Ms . Swank does not suffer a wound like the one in the introduction , " Million Dollar Baby " does not skirt this issue . The film is as realistic as they come . Swank is amazing , absolutely earning her many " Best Actress " honors . " She grew up knowing one thing , she was trash . " Auteur Eastwood is even more incredible - as producer , director , star , and composer . He uses his years of film-making experience wisely , and does not let one role interfere with another . The goal of a superior film is achieved , with generosity rather than egotism in evidence . " Million Dollar Baby " is , also , the crowning achievement of the " Eastwood style " . The lighting is exquisite . The film is quiet when it should be quiet , and noisy when it should be NOISY . The harder-to-manage " quietness " is expertly handled . The film is beautiful without being loud - it's starkly beautiful . Eastwood allows his audience to become a part of this movie . Morgan Freeman gives one of filmdom's all-time " Best Supporting Actor " performances . His character's narration gives the film poetry . Narration is one of the easiest techniques to administer , but one of the hardest to muster convincingly ; Mr . Freeman's is most convincing . And , Freeman's more subtle counterpoint story - his relationship with slow-witted Jay Baruchel ( as Danger " Flip " Barch ) - gives the film hope . Mr . Baruchel might have won a " Best Supporting the Best Supporting Actor " award ( as of this writing , not introduced ) . " Boxing is about respect - getting it for yourself and taking it away from the other guy . " " Million Dollar Baby " is about loving , non-sexual and non-familial relationships ( count the number of sexually involved " couples " in this film ) , and how very important these relationships are to our lives , and dreams . " Somewhere between nowhere and goodbye , " Eastwood echoes Lloyd Price , " Just because you left and said goodbye , do you think that I will sit and cry ? Even if my heart should tell me so , darling I would rather let you go . . . " Million Dollar Baby ( 2004 ) Clint Eastwood - Clint Eastwood , Hilary Swank , Morgan Freeman , Jay Baruchel
The Sky Is Falling ! The Sky Is Falling ! ( Don't Go in the Basement , Donnie ? )	This is " an edgy , psychological thriller about a suburban teen coming face-to-face with his dark destiny , " according to the promotional verbiage for the film , starring Jake Gyllenhaal as " a delusional high school student visited by a demonic rabbit with eerie visions of the past and deadly predictions for the future . " This description hardly scratches the surface of " Donnie Darko " . While watching the film , to enjoy a quirky , satisfying thriller , you may get the impression may be watching something more meaningful . You are . Repeated viewings ( recommended ) will reveal completely different films . Writer / director Richard Kelly creates more than a movie monster . " Donnie Darko " is an multi-layered , inspirational , and beautifully produced work . Most obviously , it is superbly written and directed . Mr . Kelly , who really pulls a rabbit out of his hat , should have received an " Academy Award " , along with several members of his crew ; perhaps , the film's more " independent " status was an obstacle . The cast is exceptional , from Mr . Gyllenhaal's central role , to the many supporting characterizations , right down to the smallest players . This film is full of memorable characters , arriving on the screen for a variety of reasons , and for various lengths of time , to serve a defined purpose . They're all jewels . The film is set in Middlesex , Suburbia , during 1988 . Forget April , for the Darko family , October is the cruelest month . Gyllenhaal is a kid held back in high school , for burning down a house . Presently , Gyllenhaal is a disturbed sleepwalker , who is not taking his medication ; perhaps , intuitively , he knows it wouldn't make any difference . Gyllenhaal lives with mother Mary McDonnell ( as Rose Darko ) , father Holmes Osborne ( as Eddie Darko ) , big sister Maggie Gyllenhaal ( as Elizabeth Darko ) , and little sister Daveigh Chase ( as Samantha Darko ) . They're all jewels . As with the entire cast , it's difficult to single out one Darko family performance . Gyllenhaal never disappoints . Secondarily , Ms . McDonnell's may be the best , due to Kelly's skillful writing . Motherly love , for a son who seems to be drifting into madness , is wondrous ; the delicacy of McDonnell's performance is perfectly suited to Gyllenhaal's fragility . Even Ms . Chase , who you'd expect to be the minor Darko , is magical ; she even writes about " The Last Unicorn " , Ariel ( before he died in the possession of Count Petofi ) . The characters who exist outside the Darko family are as important . Many of them are teachers . At school , Drew Barrymore ( as Karen Pomeroy ) covers English literature in spectacular fashion ; she challenges students ' critical thinking skills , and gives Gyllenhaal guidance . As one of the film's producers , Ms . Barrymore's the most valuable member of the faculty lounge . Beth Grant ( as Kitty Farmer ) displays a limitless ability to multitask . Noah Wyle ( as Kenneth Monnitoff ) lurks in the science department , and helps Gyllenhaal consider slipping into time . Moreover , he reveals the truth about Patience Cleveland ( as " Grandma Death " aka Roberta Sparrow ) , who whispers : " Every living creature on Earth dies alone . " Among the students , new girl in school Jena Malone ( as Gretchen Ross ) provides Gyllenhaal with love interest ; and , with a dark past of her own , she's a natural . Katharine Ross ( as Lilian Thurman ) is a dignified and memorable hypno-therapist . Patrick Swayze ( as Jim Cunningham ) plays the self-help guru with a convenient focus , " Controlling Fear " . Even small parts shine , like Jolene Purdy ( as Cherita Chen ) . And , imaginary friend James Duval ( as Frank ) belongs in a very special class ( note , he is not actually related to the addiction-signaling " Harvey " ) . Finally , the soundtrack , including original music by Michael Andrews , has to be one of the best assembled for a motion picture . From " The Killing Moon " ( by Echo and the Bunnymen ) to the new " Mad World " ( by Gary Jules ) , the mood is always finely tuned . Look up . Plane to catch . My time's out of space . Donnie Darko ( 2001 ) Richard Kelly - Jake Gyllenhaal , Jena Malone , Drew Barrymore , Mary McDonnell
The Height of Sentimentality	Lillian Gish ( as True Heart Susie ) is an ordinary country girl ; she is in love with typical " boy-next-door " Robert Harron ( as William Roberts ) . The film begins with a series of seemingly silly , sentimental , and hopelessly old-fashioned observations about the relationships between men and women like " True Heart Susie " and " William Roberts " . Director D . W . Griffith astutely notes , " Of course they don't know what poor simple idiots they are - - and , we , who have never been so foolish , an hardly hope to understand ? " You can tell , early on , that minister-to-be Harron is not really interested , romantically , in Gish . Harron prefers the " kind " of woman later idealized by Clarine Seymour ( as Bettina ) . Ms . Seymour leads a fine supporting cast , as the painted and partying " other woman " . Gish tries " power and stockings " , but it is not in her character . When she accidentally chances upon Harron and Seymour kissing , Gish realizes circumstances are beyond her control , and Harron is lost to her - - this is followed by an incredible close-up of Gish , which defies description . With " True Heart Susie " , director Griffith and company achieve " non-epic " perfection . In its own way , the film is as " epic " as the director's " Intolerance " ( 1916 ) . Ms . Gish and Mr . Harron are superb , as usual ; though they are young adults , they are thoroughly convincing as opening-scene schoolchildren . The performances are almost outerworldly ; especially , after Harron expresses discontent , and Gish reacts . Gish's reactions are particularly amazing ; in fact , this may be her most supreme silent-era achievement , besting her own performance in the recently released " Broken Blossoms " ( 1919 ) . If " Best Actress " awards were given out in 1919 , Lillian Gish's " True Heart Susie " might have won over her own lead performance in " Broken Blossoms " . Truly classic . True Heart Susie ( / 19 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Robert Harron , Clarine Seymour , Loyola O'Connor
Way to Go , Rudy	In sands " Not East of Suez - - but South of Algiers , " handsome Rudolph Valentino ( as Ahmed ) and beautiful dancing girl Vilma Bánky ( as Yasmin ) fall in love . Mr . Valentino learns that Ms . Bánky must dances for coins , which her wicked father George Fawcett ( as André ) gambles away . Mr . Fawcett and Montagu Love ( as Ghabah ) are part of a band of renegade thieves . Valentino wants Bánky for his own , but Fawcett isn't about to part with the goose that brings in the golden coins . Valentino is kidnapped , strung up , whipped , and held for ransom . Turns out , he's " The Son of the Sheik " ? Valentino is freed , with a lot of help from his friend Karl Dane ( as Ramadan ) . Valentino thinks Bánky betrayed their love ; and , he vengefully abducts her . Meanwhile , Ahmed's father Rudolph Valentino ( in a dual role , as the original Sheik ) and mother Agnes Ayres ( as Diana ) are preparing an arranged wedding for the younger Valentino . Father and son clash , over love and lust ? An indelible , essential film , " Son of the Sheik " finds Valentino at the top of his profession . George Fitzmaurice ( direction ) , George Barnes ( photography ) , William Cameron Menzies ( sets ) , and George Marion Jr . ( title cards ) are all outstanding . Bánky and the supporting cast are excellent . The filmmakers create a rich , dreamy , and imaginary world ; note how the opening " title card " refuses to be precise . This goes even further than the original " The Sheik " ( 1921 ) in establishing the films as something incompatible with reality ; of course , both films suffer when taken without a grain of sand . Valentino's characterizations are startlingly well-crafted ; no doubt , many original film goers missed the nuances present in the younger Ahmed , and would not have even guessed , unless alerted , Valentino was also portraying the older Sheik . The " split screen " appearance of the two Valentinos is technically brilliant ; and , even with make-up , Valentino's portrayal of the older Sheik shows an extraordinary range . In fact , Valentino could have essayed a double career as a dashing older man . Had he lived , Valentino might have been awarded his own best acting " Medal of Honor " for his performance , which was at least equal to John Barrymore's 1925 win , for " Beau Brummell " .
Lillian Gish in the Wind	Lillian Gish ( as Letty ) takes a train to Texas , where she will live with cousin Edward Earle ( as Beverly ) and his wife Dorothy Cumming ( Cora ) . Along the way , she flirts with Montagu Love ( as Roddy ) , whom she will meet again ; but , chief among the lovely Letty's male admirers is handsome Lars Hanson ( as Lige ) . Victor Sjöström's " The Wind " is a masterpiece of silent film ( and of film overall , for that matter ) . Ms . Gish delivers an intense , flawless performance of a lonely woman slowly being battered by the forces of nature . Gish is mesmerizing , but there are other amazing performances - witness Mr . Hanson's heart-breaking " unwrapping " of his new wife , Ms . Cumming's jealous wiping of her butcher knife , and Mr . Love's fore-shadowing of Gish's nightmare . " The Wind " is known to have had an ending added , by movie studio execs preferring a happier close . The ending may not have been the one preferred by Sjöström and Gish , but it is , nonetheless , satisfactory . Obviously , very little production time had passed , because the performers and sets change little ( if at all ) . The ending relationship you'll see does not differ wildly from the flow of the characters relationship ( or , you can trace how they wind up ) . What may suffer is the question , and level , of inner insanity suffered by Gish's character ( Gish versus the Wind ) . Still , it's a suitable ending . The Wind ( 1928 ) Victor Sjöström - Lillian Gish , Lars Hanson , Montagu Love , Dorothy Cumming
Ingmar Bergman's Alexander ( and the Bishop )	This may be one of the most visually beautiful films ever produced ; the supreme " last " achievement from writer / director Ingmar Bergman and his crew , led by photographer Sven Nykvist . In whatever version you choose , " Fanny och Alexander " is long ; but , the film is worth the time commitment . It is a masterpiece . " Fanny och Alexander " starts out being about nothing in particular ; an almost cluttered assortment of characters celebrate Christmas 1907 . While in evidence , " Fanny " ( Pernilla Allwin ) and " Alexander " ( Bertil Guve ) do not seem to be major characters . By the film's end , young Guve's " Alexander " has emerged as the film's leading player ; but , each of the other characterizations are memorable . Characters who started out superfluous become funny , scary , poignant , and / or haunting . Yet , everyone seems to belong in the film . There is a main plot , which creeps up on you . There is no way to describe the story without giving too much away ; so , let's just say : A Swedish widow ( Ewa Fröling ) , with two children , marries a Bishop from Hell ( Jan Malmsjö ) . While each performance is remarkable , in its own way , Gun Wållgren ( as the Grandmother Ekdahl ) must be mentioned alongside those above . The sequences with Gurv and the antique shop residents , crosscut with the Malmsjö's Bishop and his Castle entourage , are especially magical . Fanny och Alexander ( 1982 ) Ingmar Bergman - Bertil Guve , Ewa Fröling , Gunn Wållgren , Jan Malmsjö
Philadelphia Freedom for Katharine Hepburn with George Cukor	" The Philadelphia Story " is one of the best of its era - the period of time lasting from ( roughly ) the end of the " silent " era to the beginning of World War II . It's also the perfect Katharine Hepburn vehicle , and certified her position as one of the greatest actresses of her generation . The entire cast and crew are simply spectacular , with Ms . Hepburn and director George Cukor likely most responsible ( and deserving of " Best Actress " and " Best Director " attention ) . If you want to see one of Hollywood's most finely tuned old classics , this one goes to the top of the class . Exquisite . The Philadelphia Story ( / 40 ) George Cukor - Katharine Hepburn , James Stewart , Cary Grant , Ruth Hussey
All This and World War Won	Two American families , the Hamiltons and the Stephensons , have immigrated to a tranquil French village . As the film begins , Robert Harron ( as " the Boy " Douglas Hamilton ) and Lillian Gish ( as " the Girl " Marie Stephenson ) return home from separate trips . Lillian is obviously infatuated with Mr . Harron , and sets out to win his heart . Meanwhile , singer Dorothy Gish ( as " The Little Disturber " ) arrives in town ; and she , with " perseverance and perfume " , also sets her sights on handsome Harron . While Dorothy's efforts at seduction are valiant , Harron proposes to Lillian . As they plan their wedding , their lives are interrupted by a bigger " disturber " - - The Great War ( now called World War I ) ? This film , another huge hit for the director , was " commissioned " by the British government ( note the introduction ) , and must have secured the blessings of both the U . S . and French governments . The purpose was to create a pro-war , propaganda epic . Although the film is patriotic , and the war is never exactly shown as unnecessary ; it leaves an unmistakable impression as an ANTI-war film . So , what started as " A Love Story of the Great War " becomes " A Love Story Interrupted by a Great War " . Griffith reveals his true anti-war sentiments with the statement , " After all , does war ever settle any question ? The South was ruined - - thousands of lives were sacrificed - - by the Civil War ; yet , did it really settle the Black and White problem in this country ? " ( This question also offers , arguably , some redemption for Griffith's tendency for racial insensitivity . It's too bad Griffith's " The Greatest Thing in Life " is currently unavailable ; in it , Harron shocked audiences by kissing a dying Black soldier . ) In hindsight , it's easy to dismiss " Hearts of the World " as a Griffith production line effort . While it's derivative in film techniques ( Griffith's own ) ; it still equals , and sometimes bests , earlier work - - for example , witness the improved upon ( from " The Birth of a Nation " ) climatic ending , with Gish frantically trying to escape George Siegmann ( as Von Strohm ) ' s clutches . This , and the battle sequences are , at least , up to the standards set by Griffith ; so , it may be unfair to think of " Hearts of the World " as relatively minor . It would likely have won a " Best Picture " of the year , had they been given . Robert Harron would have won an additional " Best Actor " award ; and , while Lillian Gish might have lost to Mary Pickford's " Stella Maris " , sister Dorothy Gish would have earned a " Best Supporting Actress " award . Also watch for ? G . W . Bitzer's amazing camera work . The explicit , but appropriate scene of a mother nursing her baby during wartime . Dorothy licking her lips over Harron , but settling for " Cuckoo " Robert Anderson . Griffith's parallel symbolism , right down to Gish's goslings and Harron's little brothers . Lillian wandering into madness , and spending her wedding night with her beloved's " corpse " . Griffith " regulars " Siegmann , and " mothers " Kate Bruce and Josephine Crowell , who always stand out in lesser roles . Harron very quietly falling in love with the infatuated Lillian , while being pursued by seductive Dorothy ; demonstrating the difference between lust ( when he kisses Dorothy back ) and love ( when he eyes Lillian's figure ) . There are members of the Harron and Gish families in the cast ( and a Walthall ) , which would be nice to have somebody identify ( they are probably somewhere in the opening ) . Noel Coward may be difficult to recognize ; he follows Gish , early on , with a wheelbarrow . Erich von Stroheim is very easy to spot , clicking his Hun heels for the camera . Incredibly , scene-stealing littlest brother Ben Alexander grew up to serve ( memorably , as Franz ) in Lewis Milestone's " All Quiet on the Western Front " ( which owes some debt to this film ) ; later , he co-stared in " Dragnet " .
Alfred Hitchcock Puts Hollywood on Edge	What else can you say about Alfred Hitchcock's " Rebecca " ? It's still a startling production . Most obviously , it's one of the most perfect " Gothic " dramas produced ; making a very steady transformation from Daphne du Maurier novel to film , it gives the genre refreshing celluloid life . Mr . Hitchcock directs star Joan Fontaine ( as Mrs . De Winter ) to the top of her profession ; her guilty , frightened performance is a model for the reluctant Gothic heroine . Mysterious Laurence Olivier ( as Maxim De Winter ) and the supporting cast are perfect ; with sinister Judith Anderson ( as Mrs . Danvers ) raising her character to striking icon status . Ms . Anderson's excessive fondness for " Rebecca " , and the understated perverseness of sexuality between Mr . Olivier and both Mrs . De Winters , gives the film a edginess not permitted at the time . And , it was all enhanced by Hitchcock's expressive direction of George Barnes ' camera . Haunting . Rebecca ( 1940 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Joan Fontaine , Laurence Olivier , Judith Anderson , George Sanders
From Venus to Pittsburg , They're Coming to Get You !	The gruesome granddaddy of all films living dead , the original " Night of the Living Dead " still devours its successors . With this one , George A . Romero produced the horror equivalent of " Citizen Kane " . His black and white photography , and direction , is outstanding . And , Mr . Romero's excesses are in check ; every indulgence seen on screen gratifyingly fits the mood of the film . Karl Hardman , John Russo , and Russ Streiner are certainly most valuable players . The " non-acting " approach of heroic Duane Jones ( as Ben ) and the cast is effective , and refreshing . Influential and inspirational , the film's " anti-Hollywood " and / or " low budget " flaws have been rendered irrelevant . A startling masterpiece of light , shadow , and will . Night of the Living Dead ( 1968 ) George A . Romero - Duane Jones , Judith O'Dea , Karl Hardman , Russell Streiner
A Film with its Finger Firmly on the Pulse	" My name is Lester Burnham . This is my neighborhood . This is my street . This is my life . I am 42 years old . In less than a year , I'll be dead . Of course , I don't know that yet , and in a way , I'm dead already . Look at me . . . jerking off in the shower . This will be the high point of my day . It's all downhill from here . That's my wife Carolyn . See the way the handle on those pruning shears matches her gardening clogs ? That's not an accident . That's our next-door-neighbor Jim , and that's his lover Jim ? " That opening narration is a terrific invitation to " American Beauty " , a dead-on depiction of sexual fantasies and foibles in suburbia . Writer Alan Ball and director Sam Mendes construct an amazingly intuitive and artful picture . The cinematography ( Conrad L . Hall ) and music ( Thomas Newman ) are perfect . The entire cast is marvelous . Kevin Spacey plays his " Lester " to perfection - the moment when he decides NOT to indulge in a fantasy is just as uplifting as it would have been otherwise ; it is salvation . American Beauty ( 1999 ) Sam Mendes - Kevin Spacey , Annette Bening , Thora Birch , Wes Bentley
" Open the Pod Bay doors , HAL . . . "	Since so much will be written about this film , I will be brief . I have seen " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " all the way through , twice . There are some parts I've watched separately , but I saw none of the film until AFTER 2001 . So , obviously , I think it has a timeless quality . I consider Stanley Kubrick's work on this film to be art , which really doesn't " age " . I believe there is also a point where " flaws " become irrelevant , and " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " reaches that point . It's probably been said ( I will look at the other comments this evening ) , but the portrayals of Keir Dullea ( as Dave ) and Douglas Rain ( as Hal ) are absolutely SPELLBINDING . I do consider Mr . Rain's portrayal of " HAL " an acting performance ; consider , also , how much Mr . Dullea accomplishes without speaking . The Dullea / Rain struggle is probably my favorite part of the film , presently . This one is indispensable . 2001 : A Space Odyssey ( 1968 ) Stanley Kubrick - Keir Dullea , Douglas Rain , Gary Lockwood , William Sylvester
Ho-LA ! ( Douglas Fairbanks ' Greatest Adventure )	Musketeer par excellence Douglas Fairbanks ( as D'Artagnan ) is back , in this extraordinary sequel to his " The Three Musketeers " ( 1921 ) . After some years , Mr . Fairbanks ' main job becomes protecting the French King's good son . Unbeknownst to most everyone ( except the movie audience ) , the Prince and heir to the throne , William Bakewell ( as Prince Louis XIV ) , has an evil twin brother ; the identical twosome were separated-at-birth , in order to assure one King ascended to the throne , without incident . However , " good " Prince Bakewell is abducted , and locked up in " The Iron Mask " ; then , " bad " Prince Bakewell takes his place . Fairbanks and his musketeer pals must set things right . With its superb acting , brilliant pace , and stunning photography , this is the one Douglas Fairbanks film you must see , if you only see one . " The Iron Mask " is among the best films in the swashbuckler and silent film genres . It's also ( probably ) Fairbanks ' best performance as an actor . His quintessential performance , and film , might have been overlooked for " Academy Award " consideration due to Fairbanks being , at the time , President of the Academy . It was also apparent , to Fairbanks and others , that the popularity of talking pictures would soon silence the older style , despite the artful late 1920s silent film productions . " The Iron Mask " featured a spoken word introduction ( with Fairbanks in fine voice ) ; currently , it is the rarer version . As the Fairbanks ' introductory words invite viewers into the " shadows of the past " , of a different " age " , it's worth seeking out the original introduction . Another version featured Douglas Fairbanks Jr . ' s narration , replacing intertitles ; this version is interesting , to a point . Note , eventually , the " narration " version becomes distracting and obvious . Fairbanks , with director Allan Dwan and photographer Henry Sharp , came up with an ending so memorable it's been said to symbolize the approaching end of its star's career , and the end of silent films in general . They could hardly have had a more suitable ending . For Douglas Fairbanks and company , " The Iron Mask " was a perfect fit . The Iron Mask ( 1929 ) Allan Dwan - Douglas Fairbanks , William Bakewell , Nigel de Brulier , Léon Bary
Pecking Order	Tippi Hedren ( as Melanie Daniels ) visits a San Francisco pet shop when Rod Taylor ( as Mitch Brenner ) cruises in , looking to pick up some lovebirds for his little sister . When Mr . Taylor mistakes the beautiful and alluring Ms . Hedren for an employee , she plays along , obviously attracted to the handsome man . Since the shop has none of Taylor's desired lovebirds , wealthy Hedren orders some up . Then , she decides to personally deliver them to Taylor's out-of-the-way home , on an island in Bodega Bay . After secretly delivering the lovebirds , Hedren is attacked by a seagull . The freakish incident causes Hedren to stay in Bodega Bay ; there , she becomes acquainted with locals , like schoolteacher Suzanne Pleshette ( as Annie Hayworth ) and Taylor's mother Jessica Tandy ( as Lydia Brenner ) . Inexplicable terror , laced with sexual desire - - " The Birds " is one of director Alfred Hitchcock's best . Worth noting : The lovebirds get excited , but never attack . Hedren makes a sensational starring debut . Brenner daughter " Cathy " looks like Angela Cartwright for a very good reason , she's Angela's sister Veronica . The Daphne Du Maurier short story " The Birds " ( 1952 ) only slightly resembles Hitchcock's film adaptation . An even earlier " Battle of the Birds " occurred in the Fawcett comic " Captain Marvel Jr . # 90 " ( October 1950 ) . The story , probably written by Otto Binder , provides an explanation for the madness in , " ? the seeds of the Pyrrhic Plant ? that drives all types of birds into a murderous rage ! " The Birds ( 1963 ) Alfred Hitchcock - Tippi Hedren , Rod Taylor , Jessica Tandy , Suzanne Pleshette
Opening the Cabinet of Dr . Caligari	In flashback , freaked-out Friedrich Feher ( as Francis ) tells the surrealistic story of when the carnival came to his small German town of Holstenwall . The fair's main attraction is weird Werner Krauss ( as Dr . Caligari ) , who hawks his " somnambulist " ( sleepwalker ) act . The menacing Mr . Krauss " awakens " creepy Conrad Veidt ( as Cesare ) from a 25-year sleep , for the viewing pleasure of carnival attendees . Otherwise , Mr . Veidt is kept in a coffin-like cabinet , in Krauss ' trailer . Mr . Feher attends the carnival show's " awakening " of Veidt with pal Heinz von Twardowski ( as Alan ) . Krauss tells the crowd that the mysterious Veidt " knows the past , and sees into the future . " So , Mr . von Twardowski asks , " How long do I have to live ? " Veidt tells the him he dies at dawn ! - and , sure enough , a shadowy figure murders the man . Feher thinks the somnambulist is the serial killer threatening the village ( a town clerk was the first victim ) . But , some think Feher knifed his friend , a rival for the affections of dark beauty Lil Dagover ( as Jane ) , but why would Feher kill the clerk ? When a completely new killer is caught red-handed , it seems like everybody wants to get into the act ? " The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari " is one of the most outstanding film productions of the silent era . The " Art Direction / Set Direction " - by Hermann Warm , Walter Röhrig , and Walter Reimann - so beautifully photographed and directed , should be counted among the best designed of any era . The film is inspirational . Das Cabinet des Dr . Caligari . ( / 20 ) Robert Wiene - Werner Krauss , Friedrich Feher , Conrad Veidt , Lil Dagover
Burning the Candle at Both Ends	Wealthy ten-year-old Mary Pickford ( as Gwen ) lives in a beautiful mansion ; she has everything she needs , except love . She must make an appointment to see her father ( Charles Wellesley ) , who spends his time wheeling and dealing ; and , she barely gets an opportunity to see her mother ( Madlaine Traverse ) , who is busily attending to social duties . Her parents do not have time to spend with lonely Ms . Pickford ; and , she is left in the care of unloving servants . A lot of studio trickery helps to make Pickford believable as the fun-loving , independent and lonely little Gwendolyn ; her age is not at all vague , as her 11th birthday is celebrated during the running time . You'll notice the large sets , and tall actors ( standing on telephone books , no doubt ) right away . Yet , finally , it's Pickford who pulls off the ruse . When she sits down for her tutoring , in close-up , Pickford makes the character a fully believable individual . The effort to make Pickford appear small adds to the film's surreal whimsicality . Importantly , " The Poor Little Rich Girl " is the first of Pickford's adult portrayals of little girls . Her relative youth , and lack of " affected " mannerisms , is an early strength ; she is fresh , and convincing . Later on , Pickford's portrayals suffered , as she employed stock muggings , pouts , and grimaces ( to be fair , these were responsive to moviegoers increasing demand she remain in the " little girl " roles ) . Subsequently , the Pickford mannerisms were more cloyingly adopted by Shirley Temple , and others ; for example , note how closely Pickford resembles Ms . Temple after she dons a boy's hat and clothes . Director Maurice Tourneur and set designer Ben Carré help create the extraordinary , whimsical world " Gwen " inhabits . There are some " special effect " sequences , ending with a drug-induced delirium . Therein , Pickford dreams about the day's people and events ; and , finally , she meets the beckoning figure of death , who invites : " Here , in the forest , dark and deep , I offer you , eternal sleep ? " Maxine Elliott Hicks and Herbert Prior are among the more notable supporting players . Frequent Pickford writer Frances Marion does a fantastic job bringing story details together ; she , Pickford , Mr . Tourneur , and Mr . Carré certainly created a monster . The Poor Little Rich Girl ( / 17 ) Maurice Tourneur - Mary Pickford , Maxine Elliott Hicks , Herbert Prior
There Were Snakes in the Jungle	Oliver Stone reveals some truths about the war in Vietnam . The director looks through the lens with protagonist Charlie Sheen ( as Chris ) quitting college to volunteer for service . Upon arrival , it is clear Mr . Sheen has no idea what is going on , or how to survive . What he finds is two forceful , contradictory leaders , Willem Dafoe ( as Sgt . Elias ) and Tom Berenger ( as Sgt . Barnes ) . The two sergeants come to represent a much larger picture for Sheen , and the viewer . Stone is off the mark in some of his " conspiracy theory " films . But , this is his " Platoon " ; and , his thesis is expertly conveyed . Stone uses the Vietnam setting and characters very convincingly , and the film's point-of-view is indisputable ; it is told through Sheen , who is Stone's leading character . And , Stone should know the topic well ; he quit college to serve , as did his cinematic " Pvt . Chris Taylor " . Stone puts you there , with an inspired cast and crew . You will know why we lost . Thank you for your service , Mr . Stone . And , thank you for sharing what you learned in " Platoon " . Platoon ( 1986 ) Oliver Stone - Charlie Sheen , Willem Dafoe , Tom Berenger , Johnny Depp
Victor Sjöström Goes the Distance	Lonely , and fearing death , elderly doctor Victor Sjöström ( as Isak Borg ) takes a long drive to the city of Lund ; there , he is to receive an Honorary Award , for his lifetime of service . Accompanying Mr . Sjöström is daughter-in-law Ingrid Thulin ( as Marianne Borg ) , who is estranged from Sjöström's hateful son . Ms . Thulin , and the people he meets during the drive , prompt Sjöström's recollections of a sad life . But , three hitch-hikers : romantic Bibi Anderson ( as Sara ) , spiritual Folke Sundquist ( as Anders ) , and scientific Björn Bjelfvenstam ( as Viktor ) provide Sjöström with salvation , and symbolize hope for the future . The first sign of brilliant programming is having housekeeper Jullan Kindahl ( as Agda ) interrupt Mr . Sjöström's dialogue at the point the he mentions his deceased wife . After the credits , director Ingmar Bergman sets the stage , with a surrealistic nightmare . Then , his subtly haunting drama unfolds ? " Smultronstället " aka " Wild Strawberries " is a uniquely beautiful Bergman piece . Sjöström ( also an extraordinary director ) ends his outstanding career with one of the most graceful , delicate " last performances " in cinema . Pleasant dreams , Mr . Sjöström . Smultronstället ( 1957 ) Ingmar Bergman - Victor Sjöström , Bibi Andersson , Ingrid Thulin , Gunnar Björnstrand
A Most Extraordinary Film For the Ages	State-of-the-Art motion picture from director D . W . Griffith and company . This film requires a great deal of commitment , and concentration , in viewing . A good summation can be found in the words of " The Book " , which turns the pages on the historical eras depicted . Fleeting , and difficult to read during the film's running , the good folks at KINO include " The Book " in a special feature : " The book of this play is arranged in four parallel plot threads or lines of action , telling four stories with four sets of characters and dealing with four periods of history , all bearing on the one theme of intolerance . Intolerance is that thing in all of our nations which causes us to condemn all those who believe differently from ourselves . It has been the same in all ages , as far back as history goes . Intolerance as been the cause of more bloodshed than all other influences combined . How true it is that intolerance ever cloaks itself in the garb of righteousness that it may the more easily impose on the minds of men . " THE MODERN STORY ( 1916 ) : This is the main , and the finest , of the four stories . It begins with a group of women ( ironically called " Uplifters " ) promoting their " reformist " movement . " When women cease to attract men they often turn to Reform as a second choice " ; they embody the " garb of righteousness " being imposed , through the ages , on society . They become involved with the Jenkins family , millers , who run the town . THE JUDAEAN STORY ( Christ ) : This is the shortest of the four time slips ; it's the story of the betrayal and crucifixion of Jesus Christ . Griffith is wise to use Christ sparingly , as a compliment to his other stories ; to do more would have severely undermined this film , which needed to focus on the paralleled " crucifixion " ( hanging ) , in the " Modern Story " . THE FRENCH STORY ( 1572 ) : This Renaissance-era " hotbed of intolerance " Catholic / Protestant story further links Christianity ( or , depending on your beliefs , a misrepresentation of Christianity ) to the " Modern Story " of intolerance , social injustice , and self-righteousness . THE BABYLONIAN STORY ( 539 BC ) : This is the most visually stunning of the stories ; it links themes in the other stories ; and , importantly , it visually confirms " intolerance " as present throughout " ages " of history . Without " The Babylon Story " , the film would have left a much different impression , regarding religion and intolerance . Of the thousands of performers , the hero and heroine of " The Modern Story " must stand out , and they do : Robert Harron ( as The Boy ) and Mae Marsh ( as The Dear One ) are the stars of " The Modern Story " , and , so , they are the film's focus . Mr . Harron's performance is a masterpiece of screen acting . Ms . Marsh is perhaps too exuberant in some scenes , but equals Harron more often than not . The two , and their relationship , are the heart of the film ; their final reunion scene is heart-wrenching , and beautifully played ; amongst the thousands of extras , and millions of dollars , it's a film peak . Of the other " Modern " players , Miriam Cooper ( as The Friendless One ) stands out as a rival for Harron's affection ; instead , she finds herself fated to be the mistress of his gang boss Walter Long ( as The Musketeer of the Slums ) . Also noteworthy is Constance Talmadge ( as The Mountain Girl ) in " The Babylonian Story " ; like Marsh , she is sometimes too exuberant , which looks especially out of place during the battle scenes ; still , she makes an undeniable star-making impression . Elmer Clifton ( as The Rhapsode ) is noteworthy as her admirer ; enjoy the scene where he tries to get Ms . Talmadge to sit beside him ! Tully Marshall ( as The High Priest of Bel ) is always nice to see . Howard Gaye is a believable Christ in " The Judean Story " , and Margery Wilson ( as Brown Eyes ) is the focus of " The French Story " . There are numerous other performers , images , and moments ; the production levels are so high , Lillian Gish is employed to simply rock a cradle , between major time changes - - of course , she performs the task expertly ! Intolerance ( / 16 ) D . W . Griffith - Robert Harron , Mae Marsh , Constance Talmadge , Miriam Cooper
Don't Start The Revolution without D . W . Griffith	Before and during the French Revolution , " Orphans of the Storm " Lillian and Dorothy Gish ( as Henriette and Louise Girard ) " suffer through tyranny and selfishness . " During the Plague , the sisters lose their parents , and Dorothy goes blind ; but , Lillian vows to care for her sister forever , declaring , " I'll see for you . " And , she does , for awhile . . . When the sisters learn the city may hold a cure for Dorothy's blindness ; they journey to Paris . There , Lillian is accosted by lusty aristocrat Morgan Wallace ( as Marquis de Praille ) , but she rejects his advances . Mr . Wallace decides he must have Lillian , and arranges to have her abducted for an upcoming orgy ; this leaves the blind Dorothy helpless , on the streets of Paris . She is rescued by street beggar Frank Puglia ( as Pierre Frochard ) ; unfortunately , his mother Lucille La Verne is a cruel hag , who abuses Dorothy . Joseph Schildkraut ( as Chevalier de Vaudrey ) falls for , and rescues Lillian , but finding her blind sister during the French Revolution proves to be quite le problème . D . W . Griffith and company are triumphant in this ( yet another ) breathtakingly beautiful film ; the direction , photography , sets , and editing , and performances are superb . Lillian and Dorothy Gish are flawless as the " Orphans of the Storm " ( this was the last Griffith / Gish cinematic team-up ) . The children who play the Gish sisters look and act amazingly like their adult counterparts . Mr . Schildkraut is quaint , yet charming , as Lillian's leading man ; he is a romantic ideal , kissing her tears and stroking her face ; after the revolution , he becomes quite strong . Dorothy's relationship with poor Puglia is an unexpected pleasure ; Puglia is given , and gives , a surprisingly vivid characterization ; as his mother , Ms . La Verne is deliciously wretched - - you can almost see her tonsils as she cackles ! The " Frochard " family ( La Verne , Puglia and Sheldon Lewis ) help give the film a Charles Dickens touch . Monte Blue is thunderous as revolutionary Danton , and Creighton Hale quirky as Picard . One of the characters gets it in the end . Orphans of the Storm ( 1921 ) D . W . Griffith - Lillian Gish , Dorothy Gish , Joseph Schildkraut , Frank Puglia
Ford puts John Wayne on a Stagecoach to the Stars	Director John Ford creates magic with some stereotypical passengers on a " Stagecoach " : Thomas Mitchell ( as drunken Doc ) , Claire Trevor ( as prostitute Dallas ) , John Carradine ( as gambler Hatfield ) , Donald Meek ( as timid Peacock ) , Louise Platt ( as pregnant Lucy ) , and Berton Churchill ( as banker Gatewood ) . Steering the coach is Andy Devine ( as comic Buck ) , and riding shotgun is George Bancroft ( as lawman Curly Wilcox ) . Ford makes an already great film a cinematic masterpiece by having the coach pick up John Wayne ( as " The Ringo Kid " ) . Note how the camera treats the arrival of Mr . Wayne - - it is literally a re-introduction to the actor , who was then approaching his 100th film . Possibly , Ford's increasing close-up of Wayne was only meant to highlight the legendary " Ringo Kid " character , but it certainly achieved much more - Wayne is stunningly approached , and Ford's camera clearly loves him . " Stagecoach " is extraordinary . It's difficult to isolate individual elements as being " better " that others , but the traveling coach scenes are beautifully done , from both the inside and outside of the coach . Wayne's introduction , and boarding , are highlights , of course . The off-coach stop-over , with Wayne and Ms . Trevor conversing in the nighttime outdoors , is equally beautiful . Writer Dudley Nichols ' scenario is great , and the characterizations universally appealing . " Stagecoach " is an absolutely essential viewing trip . Stagecoach ( 1939 ) John Ford - John Wayne , Claire Trevor , Andy Devine , Thomas Mitchell
Ramon Novarro definitively answers , " Is it Good to Be King ? "	Ramon Novarro ( as Karl Heinrich ) is the Crown Prince of Karlsburg . He is envied by his subjects , but lonely and isolated behind castle walls . Quite Princely in appearance , and capable of performing royal duties , he is , nonetheless , not enamored with dutiful royalties . With help from tutor Jean Hersholt ( as Dr . Juttner ) , he becomes an honor student , and is goes to university at Old Heidelberg . There , he meets and falls in love with commoner Norma Shearer ( as Kathi ) . " The Student Prince in Old Heidelberg " is a first rate silent film production , expertly directed by Ernst Lubitsch . Mr . Novarro is appropriately exuberant as the young Prince - his performance is excellent throughout , but really starts to dazzle in the scenes beginning with his witnessing of Ms . Shearer's downing a German beer . Mr . Hersholt is great as Novarro's tutor ; both men are superior with the necessary " silent screen " acting , and the more forward " underplaying " . Ms . Shearer is just a step behind her co-stars in artful acting ; but , it's a a gap she will very quickly fill . Shearer is terrific in the scene when she learns Novarro is leaving , and helps him pack . Philipe de Lacy is notable , playing the Prince as a boy ; his characterization matches the older Novarro - director Lubitsch directs these early sequences effectively , creating the image of a young prince in his castle prison . When a couple of important people in the Prince's life die , the story becomes necessarily more somber in tone . Of course , Novarro must eventually become King - these scenes are beautifully symbolic , and extraordinarily well photographed . The visit by an old friend prompts Novarro's return to Old Heidelberg , with unexpected results . Don't miss a later scene , when Novarro returns to his Old Heidelberg bedroom - especially , watch how Novarro briefly strokes his bed , obviously thinking of Shearer ; it's a superb little bit of sexual suggestion . It would be nice to know whether the gesture originated with Novarro or Lubitsch - but , it's probably not possible to determine . " Is it Good to be King ? " You'll know when you see Novarro's beautifully acted final scene , in his royal carriage - certainly , it's one of the most memorable performances in silent cinema . The Student Prince in Old Heidelberg ( 1927 ) Ernst Lubitsch - Ramon Novarro , Norma Shearer , Jean Hersholt , Philippe de Lacy
Nursing the Outlaw	Jane Russell nurses Jack Buetel back to health - but , that's not all . Seriously , I rate this film extraordinarily high . I've watched the film three times . The first time , I resisted . I watched with amazement ? this movie has an incredible " look " . I suppose it's a film made in the ' 40s , seen mostly in the ' 50s , looking very much like an early ' 30s " talkie " - but , ACTED IN SLOW MOTION ! I wanted to dislike the film , but I really could not . I loved the saloon - reading the visible graffiti on the walls , never knowing who was going to shoot who , when , and why . . . When Mr . Buetel and Ms . Russell tumble in the hay , I recognized the scene from a dozen subsequent westerns ; yet , it seemed suspenseful the way director Hughes ( ? ) shot it here . I could not really state there is a rape ( others may ) ; and , I think , later scenes imply there was no rape . I believe the scene simply ended with her shirt torn . There certainly is a lot of ambiguity ! I agree there are some lines between the male actors which could be taken sexually . I caught those upon viewing the film during a second sitting . Early on , Mr . Huston wonders if Mr . Buetel might want to bunk with him if he doesn't " have a girl " . BUT , Huston has Russell already lined up . There is also the age old question of whether the western hero needs his horse , or his girl , more . Of course , the western hero picks his horse ! I believe these ambiguities add to the enjoyment of the film . They are additional things to think about during repeated viewing . During my second viewing , I just enjoyed the movie more ? it's just so unusually interesting . With all " classic " films , I think about different meanings , and things going on ? this movie has the ability to grow stronger thematically with repeated viewings . That's something I look for when rating a movie highly . A movie can take on a life of its own . I love the performances ? Mr . Mitchell and Huston are older , more experienced actors while Buetel and Russell are younger . They all work well together . I especially enjoy " Billy " and " Rio " as she nurses him to health . The most recent viewing ( today ) had me wondering about how the peculiar " look " of this film was achieved . It's very claustrophobic , but has some " location " stuff . I watched those scenes more carefully . I watched Mr . Buetel's guns during his " exchange " near the end . I noticed Ms . Russell's attire became more alluring with each scene . I noticed the tombstone closing : " HERE LIES ? " The tombstone is a " LIE " . Could this play on words have been intended ? This is a film I would call " chance art . " I have no idea what effect the filmmakers were looking for - - was it just intended as a showcase for Jane Russell's attributes ? That was achieved . All the rest is icing . I submit that " The Outlaw " creates a unique and entertaining " world " of its own . The four main performers are riveting . I think " The Outlaw " is a world worth repeated revisiting . Next , I need to keep my eyes on Billy the Kid's ears , and see when the blood drops appear on his shirt . The Outlaw ( 1943 ) Howard Hughes - Jack Buetel , Jane Russell , Walter Huston , Thomas Mitchell
The Slow Acid of Discontent ( Do You Hear Voices ? )	Raymond Hatton is " John Tremble - 2nd Assistant Cashier of the Clumley Contracting Company . " He hears voices from the Hall of Echoes . Kathlyn Williams is " Jane Tremble - his wife . " Eventually , she will hear voices of her own . Elliott Dexter is " ' Fighting ' George Coggeswell - A far-seeing young legislator who heads a commission with extraordinary powers to investigate the muddy waters of the state's politics . " He tilts the scale of justice with pipe ashes . Mr . Hatton is stuck in a $25 a week dead end job , with no hope for the future ; living with his mother ( Edythe Chapman ) he is unable to even buy a cheap little dress for Ms . Williams , for Christmas . To make ends meet , Mr . Hatton embezzles $10 . 000 from his company . Plagued by guilt ( and an investigation ) , Hatton drops out of sight , for a couple of days . Whilst fishing , he reels in a dead man , and decides to exchange identity with the deceased Edgar Smith . He becomes Smith , and very unwisely ( as it turns out ) frames him for both the Tremble embezzlement , and the murder of Tremble - so that he may achieve martyrdom . Then , he becomes a fugitive ? This is an epic psychological drama ; always interesting , it slowly becomes more and more unnerving , even horrific . The crescendo of images and plot build wildly , to an INTENSE ending . The film sometimes appears to be off-track , but winds up a tightly woven nightmare . There are SO MANY images to praise - but , just watch . . . Also , look for the cross-cutting as Hatton fishes for a dead body while Dexter fishes for Tremble - then , later , Tremble hooks up with a Chinatown prostitute while his wife marries Dexter . Director Cecil B . DeMille and the production team are in peak condition . Hatton , remembered mainly as a " supporting " or " character " actor , performs supremely in the lead role ; he effectively portrays the " slow acid of discontent steadily consuming " the soul of John Tremble . Williams shows some psychological problems of her own . Noah Berry has an important role as a longshoreman who guiltily houses Hatton , after unintentionally crippling him . It's difficult to believe this film was released in 1918 , and has received relatively little acclaim . It's a NOT TO BE MISSED silent classic . The Whispering Chorus ( 1918 ) Cecil B . DeMille - Raymond Hatton , Kathlyn Williams , Elliott Dexter , Noah Berry
Shooting Stars	In a small town , youthful dreams play out . Working on his car , all-American boy Charles " Buddy " Rogers ( as Jack Powell ) daydreams he is a pilot . Girl-next-door Clara Bow ( as Mary Preston ) dreams about Mr . Rogers , but he wants handsome best friend Richard Arlen ( as David Armstrong ) ' s girl . Mr . Arlen has it all : looks , money , and beautiful city girl Jobyna Ralston ( as Sylvia Lewis ) . Then the " mighty maelstrom of destruction " known as WAR draws them into the center of its power . The introduction of the central triad of characters is amazing : Rogers on the ground , Bow behind bloomers , and Arlen in the swing - - note how Rogers comes between his friend and the beautiful city girl , as they lazily swing ; his energy , in the car , and on foot , crashing in on them . Rogers thinks he desires Arlen's girl , but you'll " know " differently . These marvelous characters will eventually fulfill your dreams for them ; as the film so artfully portrays a myriad of youthful relationships . You can read whatever you want into their love ; and , it's all true . William A . Wellman's direction is superb . Assisted by photographer Harry Perry , Mr . Wellman is on par with early Orson Welles , and mid-period Griffith or Hitchcock . Much has deservedly been written the unsurpassed aviation sequences ; and , these are indeed breathtaking ; in the context of this film , they can never be equaled . Moreover , Wellman is as extraordinary in the film's opening ten minutes , showing the characters " in flight " before they ever leave the ground . With the silent film genre and aviation theme , Wellman's directorial achievement is textbook . Charles " Buddy " Rogers seems to be channeling Robert " Bobby " Harron ; which , under the circumstances , couldn't be more appropriate ; his " Wings " , Clara Bow and Richard Arlen , are as beautifully portrayed . Bow was the film's " superstar " draw at the time of release ; yet , temptation to turn the film into a " star vehicle " is wisely dispensed with ; and , she is seen to great advantage . Future star Gary Cooper ( as White ) and past star Henry B . Walthall ( as Mr . Armstrong ) have small , important roles ; the fact that Mr . Walthall's character appears disabled is one of the film's many great subtleties . The lesser known supporting players ( and great crew ) should all be proud . " To those young warriors of the sky , whose wings are folded about them forever , this picture is reverently dedicated . " What " Wings " says about war should be obvious : ultimately , you kill what you love . Wings ( 1927 ) William A . Wellman - Charles ' Buddy ' Rogers , Clara Bow , Richard Arlen , Henry B . Walthall
Mona Lisa Without the Smile	Lowly cashier Edward G . Robinson ( as Christopher " Chris " Cross ) receives the nominal company gift of an engraved watch , for 25 years of faithful service . Slightly tipsy , Mr . Robinson leaves to look for the New York City subway . On a Greenwich Village street , he sees beautiful Joan Bennett ( as Katherine " Kitty " March ) being slapped around , and thrown to the ground , by boyfriend Dan Duryea ( as Johnny Prince ) . Robinson rescues Ms . Bennett , and Mr . Duryea flees . Unhappily married , Robinson is enthralled with shapely , sexy Bennett , and succumbs to her request for a drink . Bennett suspects the older , unattractive Robinson is a wealthy artist ; she decides to use his obvious interest to her advantage . Director Fritz Lang's brilliant , daring , and imaginative follow-up to " The Woman in the Window " ; " Scarlet Street " is one of its genre's crowning achievements . Bennett's nasty , spitting " Kitty " is a sleazy , amoral classic ; if the part weren't so unflattering , she could have won a " Best Actress " award . Somewhat less underrated , Robinson masterfully manages his mild-mannered role ; certainly , he deserved " Best Actor " consideration . Always convincing in " tough " roles , Robinson is especially believable as the apron-clad " Chris Cross " . Bennett and Robinson formed a striking screen partnership , under Lang's direction . Their characterizations are beautifully summed up when Bennett , likely a lazy prostitute , orders aspiring painter Robinson to paint her toenails . At home , Robinson is forced to paint his pictures in the bathroom ; he sees beauty in a flower on the sink ; and , you'll see the clear outline of his toilet bowl , in the lower right of your screen . Dudley Nichols ' screenplay ( of the original " La Chienne " ) cleverly plays within , and stretches the limits of , mainstream motion picture standards . Duryea , Margaret Lindsay ( as Millie ) , and shrewish Rosalind Ivan ( as Adele ) are the best supporting players . See " Scarlet Street " once for the story , and twice for the art . Scarlet Street ( 1945 ) Fritz Lang - Edward G . Robinson , Joan Bennett , Dan Duryea , Rosalind Ivan
The Twain Shall Meet	Richard Barthelmess ( as Cheng Huan ) is a gentle Chinese man ( " The Yellow Man " ) , immersed in the teachings of Buddha ; he is thinking of leaving China as a missionary . After witnessing a brawl among visiting westerners ( " Jackies " ) , Mr . Barthelmess is convinced that Anglo-Saxons need the gentle lessons of Buddha ; so , he immigrates to Limehouse , a poor London district . There , Lillian Gish ( as Lucy ) lives with her " Daddy " - - abusive boxer Donald Crisp ( as Battling Burrows ) . Ms . Gish is treated like a slave in the Burrows hovel ; she is regularly whipped by hard-drinking Mr . Crisp . Barthelmess finds London uninterested in Buddhism ; disillusioned , he opens a modest souvenir shop . Barthelmess and Gish meet , and fall in love ? Subtitled " The Yellow Man and the Girl " , D . W . Griffith's " Broken Blossoms " is poetically directed and photographed ( G . W . Bitzer ) . The opening scenes are lovely , simple scenes of Chinese people carrying on with their lives . Buddhist Barthelmess is the main " Yellow Man " ; and , though he is Caucasian , he fits in well . Griffith has some fighting " Anglo-Saxons " disrupt the peaceful scenes , this foreshadows later developments and illustrates the main theme and relationship - - the Eastern / Western culture clash represented by Barthelmess and Gish . Of course , the meeting of the two is doomed . Barthelmess ' performance as an Asian has a sensitivity not present in subsequent attempts by big name " Anglo " actors to play " Oriental " parts ; with a lot of integrity , he plays shopkeeper Cheng Huan as an idealist Buddhist becoming a disillusioned pipe-smoker ( probably of Opium ) . Watch for Barthelmess ' reaction when a Christian missionary announces he is leaving for China to convert their heathen ; it's a classic revelation of maturity and understanding . His expertly played love for Gish shows up in his eyes as love , not lust ; this is the more difficult , but correct , way to play the part . Gish is likewise magnificent , creating one of her most memorable characterizations ; her motion of using two fingers to force upon her face a " smile " is classic ; her eyes reveal the horror behind her tear-aged face . Gish is great , sadly walking the Limehouse streets , collecting tin foil , and admiring unaffordable flowers and dolls . At home , she finds it increasingly impossible to avoid Crisp's abuse . Crisp is sometimes too grimaced ; but , it works in later scenes . Note , in an early scene , when Gish encounters two prostitutes , that the prostitute to the left of your screen is making a " date " ! The good folks at KINO include Gish's introduction to " Broken Blossoms " ; she is a delightful storyteller ; among other things , she reveals boxer Norman Selby was " The Real McCoy " . An amazing , never to be equaled , film . Broken Blossoms ( / 19 ) D . W . Griffith - Richard Barthelmess , Lillian Gish , Donald Crisp , Edward Peil
